i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 16 december 2010 (the sitting opened at 5 p.m.)
i have a few preliminary remarks. that's five short points. january 27 marks the 66th anniversary of the liberation of the german nazi concentration and extermination camp auschwitz-birkenau. every year on this day, we honor the memory of over a million people who were murdered there. it gives us the strength to build together a peaceful future for a united europe that will not have such nightmares in the future. second information: on january 13, the lithuanian nation celebrated the 20th anniversary of bloody sunday, when the soviet army attempted to overthrow the democratically elected government of independent lithuania. lithuanians defended their freedom and are today equal members of the euro-atlantic community. as we mark this important anniversary for europe, we stand in solidarity with the people of belarus, including our neighbours, who are still waiting for freedom and democracy to come to their country. other information: the european union acceded to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities on 23 december 2010. this convention, together with the disability strategy prepared by the european commission, will ensure that by 2020 almost 80 million citizens of the union with different types of disabilities enjoy equal civil, political and economic rights. information number four: i would also like to remind you that we are deeply concerned about the disappearance of mr. gao zhisheng's chinese lawyer. according to the latest information, he is being mistreated and tortured. the european parliament has already dealt with mr zhisheng's case on several occasions. today, i would like to call on the chinese authorities to reveal his whereabouts and state of health. the last point: since our last meeting before christmas, the belgian presidency has ended and the presidency of the council of the european union has been taken over by hungary. we'll be discussing both presidencies at this session of parliament. we were also dealing with important political events: the elections in belarus, the recent accidents in tunisia. both these items are on the agenda for our plenary session. i also want to remind you that in recent weeks the world has been struck by several major natural disasters. we join in the grief of the families of the victims and extend our condolences to them and to the governments of those countries.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 13 january 2011. the following changes have been proposed.
i'm sorry about this, mate. we have a formal debate on this at 3:00 on wednesday.
we'll make a decision on that matter shortly. the case concerns the lisbon treaty and the new relationship between the european parliament and the council. we are now a bicameral parliament in the european union. the european parliament and the council shall act on an equal footing. relations have changed in the union, but i would suggest that we not continue this discussion, because the matter will be clarified in the near future. thank you very much for your attention. the matter will be resolved shortly.
thank you for your comments on this matter. i would like to assure you that at the next conference of presidents, where, as you know, the agenda is being set, and so next thursday, i will raise this matter so that we can determine how it will look in the future. the conference of presidents is responsible for the agenda and we'll be discussing it on thursday. thank you very much. thank you. we're moving to the agenda. monday the greens/european free alliance group has requested that the debate on the situation in tunisia be closed with a resolution, which we did not plan. so there is a proposal to have a resolution on this. i understand that mr cohn-bendit wishes to comment on this motion.
on the debate, under rule 122 of the rules of procedure, the confederation group of the united european/nordic green left has requested that the debate on brazil: cesare battisti's extradition be removed from the agenda. mr. tavares would like to make this request. - there you go.
the president. - dear colleagues! we have been watching with great concern and hope the events in tunisia over the past few weeks. peaceful demonstrations in defence of legitimate demands turned into bloody clashes - which we regret - as the tunisian authorities turned against their own citizens. today we bow our heads before the victims of these events. our deepest sympathies go out to all those who have lost loved ones. we remember in particular the first victim of the clashes, the young mohammed bouazizi. this tragic gesture has become a symbol of the wave of democratic reaction in tunisian society. let us all take a moment of silence in memory of our tunisian friends. please rise. (silence for a minute) thank you very much. thank you. dear colleagues! the jasmine revolution is underway. in many ways, this is a truly historic time. i want to express my deep appreciation for the courage and determination of the people of tunisia. they're the source of these changes. but this is only the beginning of a long journey. as europeans, we share the tunisian people's aspirations and want to accompany them on their journey towards their full realization. europeans are particularly sensitive to social justice, equal opportunities, freedom of expression, democracy and genuine pluralism, shaping their own political future. that's why we're not going to sit idly by today. we call for these changes to be peaceful. they must lead to justice and the rule of law. we also have fundamental postulates. first, the release of all arbitrarily arrested. second, to conduct independent investigations into serious allegations of corruption, as well as cases of death, abuse of power. thirdly, transparent, genuinely democratic presidential and parliamentary elections, monitored by local and foreign observers, and fourthly, we support efforts to create a government of national unity that represents all tunisians. the european union and tunisia have a longstanding partnership, they are our neighbours across the mediterranean. this partnership must be primarily for the benefit of our citizens, the tunisians and the europeans. our partnership, if it is to remain credible and meaningful, must support the tunisian people in their journey towards profound change. we have to help tunisia succeed. dear colleagues! let's side with the tunisians.
we are therefore closing the agenda item.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the position of the council at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing council directive 89/106/eec (10753/3/2010 - c7-0267/2010 - 2008/0098 ((cod)) (rapporteur: catherine stihler) (a7-0343/2010)
madam president! we're dealing with a scandal, but a scandal is too small a word. this is a major threat to the lives and health of thousands of people. i hope that the culprits will be found and punished, but let this case also be a reason to reflect on the model of agriculture that we have created in the european union. agriculture has become an industry. we're no longer raising animals, we're producing meat, we have big farms, we have a feed industry and animals fed with feed, and with dioxins, genetically modified feed, not fully tested, and this model of agriculture is not working. this is a model that doesn't guarantee food security. the solution is to have more respect for the farms that we still have in europe, in poland and in other countries, which are based on their own feed production. we should support it.
madam president! last month, i was in the republic of congo with a delegation from the development committee, where we also discussed the flegt initiative with representatives of the authorities, experts and ngos. the timber industry is a very important industry for this country. it's the second largest source of export revenue after oil. it is worth recalling that what happens to oil revenues and their use is not completely transparent and clear to us, or at least the information is transmitted with a long delay. at the same time, the government of the republic of congo is expressing concern about the future of forest areas and is planning a major reforestation campaign. of course, we don't know yet if this afforestation program will succeed, but it's certainly worth wishing the congolese government that it will. that's why it's so important to strengthen the legal timber trade. it is equally important that flegt operates in neighbouring countries, because otherwise, for example through smuggling, the agreement may not be effective in practice. and we don't know yet whether the standards we're promoting for legal timber trade will become global and functional. we must make sure that this system works. we also need to help put pressure on other importers (outside europe) to phase out the illegal timber trade. flegt is important for reducing poverty, protecting the environment, curbing deforestation and developing diversified economies in many countries. in the case of the republic of congo, this goes hand in hand with another need, namely the need to develop agriculture and reduce food imports. flegt has the potential to make global trade in timber fairer, more sustainable and more environmentally friendly. we hope that's what happens.
mr. chairman, please! it's a very important but also a sensitive subject. i would remind you that in the european parliament during the last term we had a problem with the adoption of romanian children by parents in israel, and this caused serious disturbances, including political ones. now, another initiative that i think is well-intentioned, but it's provoking a lot of emotion. i think we have to be very careful here not to throw the baby out with the bathtub, to care for the good future of the child, to not create a situation where we take shortcuts, where we open the door to early adoption and actually allow the child to be taken away from the parents. i would be very careful about that.
mr. chairman, please! adoption can and often does benefit a child, but the procedures involved can also be a source of abuse, such as child trafficking or the taking of children for adoption from families that have not abandoned their children but are often unable to provide them with the right conditions because of poverty. the large number of children in orphanages that we are talking about in today's debate are often not abandoned children, but children of poor parents who are not able to cope with the difficult situation of life. we have to help families like that. states could spend far less money to help these families, without putting them in orphanages and, consequently, for adoption. we should adopt a clear rule - in the european union, it should be the rule - never take children from their families because of poverty, help, don't take children. poverty can't be a reason to take a child away from his birth family.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am very pleased that the european parliament is dealing today with the issue of adoption within the union, because it is a matter which is very close to my heart. the special reference to children in the charter of fundamental rights and in article 3 of the treaty on european union gives us the opportunity, but also the obligation, to address this issue. international adoption can be a chance for a normal life and family happiness for many abandoned children who, due to their age or health conditions, do not have the opportunity to adopt in their own countries. in europe today, we have a situation where there are few children available for adoption in countries where abortion is widely available and widely promoted. in other lands, there are many, and only the youngest have the opportunity to start their own families. additionally, an increasing number of couples are having difficulty conceiving their own children or are suffering from incurable infertility. i therefore welcome the work of the european commission in this area with great enthusiasm. member states should agree on simplifying procedures which are not too complex and time-consuming. but we must not forget that we have to put in place protective and control mechanisms to prevent the trafficking of children.
in moscow, the results of the report of the special commission investigating the causes of the crash of the polish plane near the russian city of smolensk on april 10 last year were announced. the crash killed the polish president and 96 other passengers, including a number of high-ranking officials. this report is absolutely outrageous. it contains a number of lies and clearly places the responsibility for this disaster on the polish side, completely ignoring serious errors on the russian side, such as the misguided control of this plane by the controllers of the air traffic control tower in smolensk. the russian side did not take into account very many of poland's comments to this report, 20 pages of comments were simply ignored. this is a very sad matter, and one which the european union should address.
mr. chairman, please! my predecessors have spoken of discrimination against christians. i too would like to speak about a certain kind of de-activation of parts of the european countries. in the last few weeks, at the beginning of the hungarian presidency, there have been a lot of critical words directed at the hungarians, and very often these words were unfounded and unjustified. unfortunately, in addition to the words of the luxembourg foreign minister, very unfair words, perhaps insulting to hungarians, have also been uttered by politicians in this house, including mr martin schulz. i think it's a sign of a certain belief that the countries in the european union are divided into better and worse. the good ones are the ones that have been here for a long time, and the bad ones are the ones that have only been here since 2004. i think that this kind of discrimination should end, and everyone should get used to the fact that the new countries are full members of the european union, especially in this room. that's why i'm asking that those in this room who allow themselves to be discriminated against, be disciplined and punished.
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much welcome mrs striffler’s report, as well as parliament’s involvement in and continued strong advocacy for effective european humanitarian action. the consensus was adopted in 2007. it provides an essential common policy framework for the eu – a common vision accompanied by an action plan. both the member states and the commission have a shared responsibility to make sure that the consensus is well implemented. i want to stress that what comes very clearly out of the report is the message that humanitarian principles, international humanitarian law and protection of the humanitarian space have to be at the centre of our action on the consensus. four-fifths of our humanitarian aid goes to people in need in conflict-related, man-made emergencies. for us to be able to reach these people it is critical that our aid is independent and neutral and that it is perceived in this way. i would like to give you one example of this. i have just come back from yemen where, together with the un high commissioner for refugees, antonio gutierrez, we engaged on the humanitarian access issue with high-level government officials and representatives of the al-houthi rebel movement. for the first time we obtained commitment on their part to facilitate humanitarian access and respect delivery of aid to all yemeni people in need, in line with the humanitarian principles of neutrality and independence. having spent a number of hours with men with kalashnikovs, i would like to observe that we in europe do bring this value of neutrality that is a bridge to people in need. in the yemeni case, there are 300 000 internally displaced people and many more hundred thousands affected by six wars in six years in the north of yemen. of course, for a long-lasting impact, humanitarian aid is not the right instrument. it is development that can lay the foundation for lasting peace. we in the commission have completed a year-long review process of the european consensus action plan, in close liaison with our member state and humanitarian partners. on 8 december, the commission adopted a communication on this. the review shows that over the past three years we have made significant contributions to strengthening the humanitarian response in terms of advocacy and humanitarian action, as well as by bringing humanitarian aid and civil protection together. we also concluded that there is scope for further improvement in three areas. firstly we need to promote the quality and effectiveness of aid by good assessment, a well-coordinated response and investment in disaster risk reduction and local capacity. at a time when needs are growing and budgets are constrained, this is critical. let me just respond here to the question of accountability. obviously we need to stretch every euro to the full and deliver it with the highest possible quality and in the most effective way. in order to ensure that our partners – un agencies and ngos – are accountable, we review one-third of all partners and one-third of all projects every year. we have our own humanitarian aid offices in all the hotspot areas of the planet to be the ears and the eyes of our taxpayers, including in yemen, because of increasing humanitarian needs. i recently cut the ribbon of our humanitarian aid office there. the second issue concerning which we can see room for improvement is the strengthening of the european voice. we are the largest donor and have to make sure that we speak very clearly with one voice. we must also reach out to other donors so that we play our leadership role, vis-à-vis traditional donors, but also by engaging new donors. thirdly we need to ensure coherence which means working, together with the external action service, with military actors to make sure that a principled humanitarian approach is safeguarded and is also promoted in europe. let me finish by once again thanking mrs striffler for her work on this issue and calling upon parliament to continue the discussion on this topic. the world has changed. unfortunately there will be more and more natural and man-made disasters. whatever action we take will determine not only the lives of the people affected, but also the moral standing and the capacity of the eu to lead in the world.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 18 january 2011. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. humanitarian aid is a manifestation of universal solidarity between people, it is our moral duty. today, we see a steady increase in the need for humanitarian aid because of the increasing number of natural disasters being reported. climate change is not the only factor, but so are the developments in disaster detection and communication technologies. the key criteria for delivering humanitarian aid should be speed, accountability and the lowest possible administrative costs. the development of transport is a factor in facilitating aid delivery. this will allow more victims to be reached and assisted more quickly. this is why it is so important to involve companies corporations, groups, but also small businesses (not only transport and logistics) in building a network of actors working together in the field to deliver aid effectively and to improve the rapid response system to threats. based on a cross-sector partnership (business - organisation/institution), bases, branches, offices with funds, storage space, volunteers, food, necessary materials and equipment and means of transport can be created. such cooperation can bring tangible benefits in the face of human tragedy, especially when there is a need to respond quickly rather than to fundraising first.
mr. chairman, please! i also join in congratulating mrs sârbu on her excellent report, which i consider to be one of the most important of this term. the world's population is growing, but the land is shrinking. food is becoming a strategic commodity more and more. while solar and nuclear energy can replace oil, nothing can replace food from the earth. in the european union, we sometimes act as if we were constantly faced with the problem of overproduction of food. the whole agricultural policy of the european union in recent years has been about how to limit agricultural production, how to reduce it. today, there are already times of food shortage on the horizon. it is very good that the signal is coming from parliament, thanks to mrs sârbu's report, that the situation has changed and that the european union's agricultural policy must change too. we must respect agriculture as the guarantee of our food security.
in writing. dear colleagues! europe needs a common agricultural policy that will ensure the development, not the stagnation, of european agriculture. agricultural policy must respond to european and global challenges, especially when we consider that according to the world food and agriculture organisation, food production must increase by at least 70% to meet the world's population, which is expected to exceed 9 billion by 2050. it is therefore clear that the cap should increase food security by increasing productivity while promoting an environmentally sustainable food policy. i would like to point out that the rules in this area should be transparent. i appreciate the initiatives that encourage the promotion of agricultural diversity, including traditional and organic farming. in addition, it is important to guarantee young farmers access to land and credit to pursue cap objectives such as innovation, modernisation, enhanced competitiveness and, above all, modern agriculture.
madam president! serbia is a european country. serbia is part of european history. serbia is part of european culture. serbia is not just a part of the geography of europe. serbia must therefore be part of political europe and let us not look for excuses to extend serbia's path to the european union. i have the impression that the union has sometimes treated this country with a certain amount of condescension and that there is a certain asymmetry between the treatment of certain countries in the balkan region and that of serbia. we have to end this asymmetry once and for all. let's not look for excuses to - i stress this again - extend serbia's path to the european union. the serbian people deserve to be among the nations of europe as soon as possible.
madam president! cooperation with our european neighbours is an important element of community policy. serbia, like all the countries in the balkans, is a very special case. the break-up of yugoslavia in the 1990s and the subsequent warfare in that country have left these countries with economic and political problems. the european union's role is to support and help these countries. history has taught us that the political situation in this region affects the entire continent and its consequences are felt by all of us for a long time. europe is in some ways partly to blame for the events that took place then, and that is why we have a double moral obligation towards these countries, and such agreements as we are talking about today - cooperation at all levels, facilitation for the citizens of these countries - are a necessity. and so that this story never happens again.
madam president! commissioner füle said it was up to serbia to make the right choices. i am sure that this is the case, but at the same time we must realize, and we know as new member states, that we must strengthen this process. serbia made the right choice by signing the stabilisation and association agreement. it has committed itself to a series of reforms that are undoubtedly difficult. as the european parliament, we must strengthen these reforms, because it is not only the government, but above all the public that must make the right european choice. when i was observing the constitutional referendum, i said to the serbs, i said to my european colleagues, "look, this belgrade and these people, the serbs, are europeans, they need help on this path". i believe that everything that is happening in the process of ratifying the association agreement, and also this resolution of the european parliament, can help serbia very much in this direction.
colleagues, allow me to welcome prime minister yves leterme. half a year ago we had the presentation of the belgian presidency. now we have the presentation of the achievements of the belgian presidency: legislation, the european external action service, financial supervision, the citizens’ initiative, the budget – we will discuss all these points. welcome, too, to president barroso, who is present with us, and to all of you. kolejnym punktem porządku dziennego są oświadczenia rady i komisji dotyczące podsumowania belgijskiej prezydencji w radzie.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to add my congratulations and my greetings to what has happened during the belgian presidency. but listening to this debate, two very important questions arise. is it true that during the belgian presidency everyone in europe forgot about national interests and focused only on those designated by, i understand, the institutions in brussels and supported by the belgian government? it wasn't like that. we have been watching the life of europe for the last six months and it is clear that a presidency that does not appeal to national interests is not enough to make it go away. and finally, the second thing, perhaps the most fundamental and biggest question in this whole debate. it would not be right to oppose the objectives which we call european objectives to the national objectives. after all, these national goals are ideas for europe that come from specific countries. this is a concrete contribution without which europe would be much poorer. we cannot today impose a standard whereby the objectives which are formulated in the capitals for europe are not treated as a wealth but as a problem.
mr. chairman, please! as one of the six founding members of the european union, belgium has just completed its six-month presidency. despite internal political difficulties related to the inability to form its own government, it is officially praised for its effectiveness and success in achieving almost all of its priorities. that is why i would like to join in the congratulations that in such a short time, in the framework of the priorities it has set, it has tackled the economic crisis in europe, protected europe's natural environment, built an open and secure european union, built a coherent social model in the european union and laid the foundations for the union's common foreign policy. rarely in history has such a small country done so much for the happiness of europe in such a short time.
mr. chairman, please! the belgian presidency was widely praised, in particular for its negotiating skills and calmness in a difficult period of crisis, as well as for the g20 summit, the cancún conference and the budget debate. the issues of returning to financial stability, as well as economic stability, were dominant, but it must also be said that national egoisms went wild, especially in the budget. the negotiating skills of the belgian presidency are to be congratulated, but this is the twelfth presidency in the making. leterme said that the presidency's programme was a council and commission programme, with no ambition to make it a national priority. but we must accept that successive presidencies will want to set their priorities. i think that is the essence of integration and the spirit of integration that prime minister leterme was just talking about. what concerns me is the crisis in the adoption of the 2011 budget, but in particular its background and the announcement that in the future this new financial perspective will not be easily negotiated.
mr. chairman, please! the belgian presidency, or rather the last two, was a period of implementation of the lisbon treaty and the shaping of the new institutional order in the union. both presidencies have limited the national approach to deepening cooperation and coordination within the community. this is a good direction to strengthen the community approach, not the governmental one. on the other hand, care should be taken to limit the role of national presidencies in shaping their priorities. there must be a specific balance. the belgian presidency has undoubtedly made a major contribution to strengthening economic governance. the agencies that oversee financial institutions have started work. much has been done to strengthen budgetary discipline. structural reforms have been made the main instrument of development. the deadlock over the approval of the union budget for 2011 has finally been broken. we just want to say thank you.
mr mitchell, i do not want to say any more other than that i have a list and you can check the list. almost 20 people on the list have the possibility to speak. if you wish you can come to my office, i can show you the list and we can explain it.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, a great deal of positive evaluation and praise has been expressed in the house this morning. on behalf of the commission i would like to say that it is very well deserved. with its european spirit, the belgian presidency clearly demonstrated impressive efficiency and a very cooperative approach. when the belgian presidency took up an issue, we all knew that it would pursue the european goal – and only the european goal – and that it would do so in a spirit of loyal cooperation among the institutions. the belgian presidency’s very good cooperation with the european parliament and very close contacts with the commission resulted in what is clearly a very impressive list of achievements. today we can say that the lisbon treaty is now fully operational. we have managed to give our citizens a new voice through the european citizens’ initiative, and we managed to reach an agreement on more transparent and effective rules for comitology. i worked on both of those issues with the secretary of state, olivier chastel, and i must say that i was always impressed by his cooperative spirit and high level of professionalism. a calm and constructive approach was needed for the conclusion of the debate on the 2011 budget, and for the beginning of the new economic governance in europe. even in complex, protracted discussions on issues such as divorce, financial supervision and even patents, the belgian presidency managed to achieve clear progress. it is very clear now that we need to carry forward the positive spirit and efficiency of the belgian presidency. clearly the economy, recovering from the crisis and fiscal consolidation remain top priorities for us all. we received good news last week with the successful sale of portuguese, spanish and italian bonds, and we saw reductions in the spreads for belgium and other countries. but it is also very clear that we need to press ahead with structural reforms and that we have to work even harder. if we do not want to have a jobless recovery, we need to look at how we can reform our labour market rules and how we can remove the obstacles to higher employment in europe. at the same time we need to protect the vulnerable in our society and reduce poverty. this is the only way we can develop our social market economy in europe. a lot will depend on how we start the european semester and to what extent we will collectively be able to be ambitious in our national reform programmes, in our consolidation efforts and in implementing the eu 2020 strategy. the belgian presidency made a major contribution to the launch of this new process of economic governance and we now have to continue the excellent work it started. prime minister, secretary of state, i should like to thank you very much for your excellent work. i would also like to thank all your diplomats very much for creating a positive atmosphere in which the next presidency can continue the work you started so successfully six months ago.
president of the council. - mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief in my final words on behalf of the belgian presidency. i am glad that we have the turnout, but i know that it has to do with other items on your agenda. ladies and gentlemen, i thank of course all my colleagues who have come forward for their very constructive criticism which will be useful for the continuation of your work. let me first of all say that in view of the very positive evaluation of the european parliament regarding our presidency, i try to follow the rule that there exists a need to be calm in the face of negative criticism and to be calm in the face of positive criticism, even when that is a hype, to remain very modest. the fourth element is the conclusion of the debate. firstly, i think it is indeed important - and this obviously exceeds the importance of our belgian presidency - that we establish good practices in relation to the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. the rotating presidency of a national member state of the european union for six months must above all keep the european agenda high. secondly, by holding the rotating presidency, it is intended, perhaps not only as a facilitator, but also as a motor, as one colleague has said, that institutions can do their work. we have all voted for ratification of the treaty of lisbon. it would be absurd to treat a rotating presidency as a means of not doing enough to uphold the letter and the spirit of the treaty of lisbon. i think, moreover, that only in this way can a rotating presidency in the future have any meaning in future treaty changes or new treaties. second element: everything is not perfect, but there are a number of shortcomings that have been pointed out by a number of colleagues. i would like to stress that with regard to social policy europe should be more ambitious. yes, what has been said is true. the union's social policy ambitions must be greater in the future, but i believe that belgium has played its part. the role of employment policies in the eu 2020 strategy has been strengthened, their place in the new european economic governance has been secured and i believe that the foundations have also been laid for the social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, not only the fight against poverty but also social cohesion. i think that in response to some of the speeches we have put the question of services of general interest on the european agenda, but it is true that more needs to be done and progress made, especially at the legislative level. as i have already said, our presidency is not perfect, and i think, as mr tavares has rightly pointed out, that there is room for doing more than we are doing today in the field of refugee policy. finally, two comments, which are not in order. i would very emphatically like to address the belgian representatives in the european parliament and a number of colleagues in particular, including two of my predecessors. on behalf of the belgian government i would like to say that we have taken the initiative we took during the belgian presidency to consider today as a kind of a salute to your work yesterday. we have done everything, colleagues, to apply the treaty of lisbon in a proper way, also as a sort of tribute to the initiatives taken since the eleventh presidency with the treaty of laeken and then in the framework of important reports that have been deployed for the implementation of the spirit of laeken in the treaty of lisbon. finally, it is right to note that a rotating presidency is particularly desirable if the people around politicians are to take responsibility in the first place. it is the job of advisors, diplomats and many people to do the most important work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's role in the european union is not compromised by the fact that the european parliament is not a political body. i would like to say to you , sir , that i am trying to use my best hungarian .
prime minister, thanks to you over the last half year we have developed new ways of cooperating at different levels between the two chambers of legislation of the european union: between council and the european parliament. your presidency was a great success. all the best to your country and all the best to you personally. (applause) written statements (rule 149)
in writing. to sum up the belgian presidency, the first thing to be acknowledged is its very active role in designing the european financial stability system. anyone who has observed this process knows that it was a difficult and time-pressured operation. i therefore warmly congratulate all those who have contributed to this project. in this area, the belgian presidency leaves the hungarian presidency with a task well accomplished. it should also be noted that the belgians set the course for the future presidencies in the context of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i would like to express the hope that the successive presidencies, including the polish one, will make greater efforts to set clear priorities of their own, which are nevertheless in line with our common european objectives. this way of working makes it easier to plan and implement the policies of the european institutions.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by congratulating the belgian presidency on its excellent presidency of the council of the european union over the last six months. the success of the belgian team is enhanced by the circumstances in which the country has taken the lead. firstly, it was the first presidency to act on the basis of the principles established by the lisbon treaty, and secondly, the financial situation of the union and its individual member states was very difficult. in addition, during the belgian presidency, the country had to deal with internal problems. despite this difficult and demanding period, the presidency has been effective and has conducted all its activities in a european style. it has put its internal problems (issues) aside and focused on implementing the line set by the european parliament, the european commission and the council of the european union and on supporting these institutions. the presidency has accepted the role of mediator. the commission's priorities include measures to combat the economic crisis, particularly the work on the next multiannual financial framework. another significant achievement of the belgian presidency is the issue of the euro vignette. in conclusion, i would like to say that the belgian presidency can be a good lesson for the next countries to take over the presidency of the council of the european union. i would also like to wish the same success to the hungarian presidency and to the polish presidency, which will begin in mid-2011.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the belgian presidency for its past role as a model for the countries that will take over the presidency of the council of the eu in the future. this is a subject which is particularly close to my heart in the face of the forthcoming polish presidency, which i hope will make use of all the positive paths that have been traced under belgian leadership. it is not often that the presidency puts its own internal interest ahead of community action. the most important success of this presidency, in my view, has been the consistent implementation of the lisbon treaty, particularly at the level of the european council, which has become a full institution with a permanent president, and at the level of the foreign affairs council, which is currently headed by the high representative. the fight against the economic crisis has also proved to be important: systematic control and restraint of the financial sector will help to stabilise its fragile status over time, especially at a time when the pressure to develop the euro area is so great. in conclusion, i sincerely hope that the path set out during the belgian presidency will be a model of quality for the countries taking over the presidency in the future. let the good of the commonwealth always be our first priority. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! the construction sector is a very important part of any country's economy. in pursuing economic growth and improving the standard of living of citizens, such an important part of the market cannot be ignored. everyone knows how important a properly constructed or upgraded facility is to safety and comfort. at the same time, we all want to reduce the cost of building homes, industrial buildings, public buildings. the report aims to remove market barriers, allow for smooth trade in construction goods and ensure competitive prices in the sector. the whole of europe will benefit from this initiative. i also fully support the author's demands for greater safety for workers in this industry.
mr. chairman, please! our role as members of the european parliament is to work for the betterment of the citizens of the union. providing them with access to safe food of the highest quality should be a top priority. food shortages and high food prices are usually associated with social unrest and we cannot allow this to happen on our continent. with a growing population, climate change, and natural disasters, global food security is at risk. so many people are starving already. to remedy this, a sound and fair common agricultural policy and financial support for the sector are necessary. agriculture should be granted a special status to allow for specific actions and appropriate instruments to be used in the event of possible food crises.
in writing. − african countries with particularly difficult geographical and climatic conditions require special treatment. but these people don't just need food and water, they also need education, they want to work with dignity and they want to move. the european union agreement with the economic and monetary union of west africa, replacing certain provisions of previous agreements, significantly facilitates and makes air transport procedures between the parties to the agreement more fair in the market. this will prevent unfair practices by monopolists and make it easier for ordinary citizens to move around. these are also new opportunities for tourists from all over the world and the associated development of this sector in africa.
in writing. − the functioning of the internal market is still limited by numerous barriers. i therefore welcome the adoption of the regulation on the placing on the market of construction products. this regulation should contribute to facilitating the movement of construction goods between member states. the regulation also introduces important provisions to facilitate business. first, it requires member states to set up product contact points where traders can obtain information on construction products. it also contains provisions to help the smallest enterprises to meet the new requirements for the production of declarations of performance and ce marking. however, we should not forget that the provisions of the regulation include a number of new obligations relating to the requirement to affix the ce marking and to the drawing up of a declaration of performance, which will also have to contain information on dangerous substances contained in construction products. i hope that the european commission and the member states will do their utmost to ensure that producers are informed of the new rules as soon as possible so that they can start preparing and adapting to the new regulation as soon as possible.
in writing. - one year after the earthquake in haiti, we can see that the actions we take, or the way we help, are not perfect. the european consensus on improving humanitarian aid delivery must not be allowed to lapse. the union, as one of the richest and most developed regions in the world, has a moral obligation to help the weak and needy. we must especially show solidarity with the victims of disasters and natural disasters who are not prepared for what is coming. all efforts should therefore be made to strengthen cooperation between member states in this area and to facilitate the sharing of good practice. we must make sure that the aid system is efficient and effective and that not a penny is wasted. cooperation with other actors, ngos or international organisations also involved in such assistance is therefore necessary to make it as effective as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the sârbu report on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security. food security has historically been one of the most important responsibilities of any authority. the financial or economic criterion cannot therefore be decisive. producing cheap, good food is very important for the market and the purchasing power of the population, especially the low-income population. but even more important is the ability to produce food. we cannot afford to rely on food imports just because someone can sell it to us cheaply on a regular basis. we can import, but we also have to maintain our own capacity to produce the amount of food we need.
in writing. −food security is a key challenge for agriculture not only in the european union but also around the world, especially in developing countries. according to the fao, by 2050, global food demand will double, and the world's population will increase from the current 7 billion to 9 billion. world food production will therefore have to increase accordingly in the face of natural resource pressures. world food production will have to increase with less water, energy, fertilizer and pesticide use and less land. the number of hungry people in the world is over a billion, and more than 40 million poor people in the european union lack enough food to eat. i therefore believe that scientific progress should be used if it can provide the appropriate solutions to alleviate world hunger, in particular through more efficient use of resources. the eu must continue to ensure food security for its citizens and contribute to the world's food supply, while working better and more coherently with the rest of the world, in particular developing countries, to help them develop their agricultural sectors in a sustainable way in the long term. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security.
in writing. - i am convinced that the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector will create better conditions for the implementation of assistance and information programmes. there is certainly a need to develop food aid programmes for the poorest. we often forget that in the european union, nearly 80 million people live below the poverty line. in addition to the aid programmes, programmes should be developed to promote healthy eating, especially among school children and young people. the effects of this neglect are most evident in the united states, where the number of overweight teenagers has tripled in recent years. the presence of programmes in educational establishments promoting fruit and milk consumption is particularly important, as well-formed eating habits will have a positive impact on the health of young europeans and thus reduce subsequent health and social expenditure. such programmes should involve as many local food producers and distributors as possible, thereby strengthening the position of small and medium-sized farms.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission. it's a standard procedure, so the questions take one minute, the answers take one minute. if there was an additional question, thirty seconds, the answer also thirty seconds. the first questions to the president of the european commission will be put by the heads or representatives of the political groups.
president of the commission. − mr president, i would like, first of all, to thank ms wortmann-kool. in fact, this is not just my position but the unanimous position of the commission. it says in this document, about the annual growth survey, that the commission considers that the effective financing capacity of the european financial stability facility (efsf) must be reinforced and the scope of its activity widened. we consider this as part of a comprehensive response and not, of course, as the entire response. there is only one sentence in this document about the efsf. it is also about structural reform, fiscal consolidation and growth-enhancing measures. but, in fact, it is important for the stability of the euro area to increase lending capacity because, as you know, the efsf is currently endowed with eur 440 billion. i am not asking now for this ceiling to be increased, but we know that the efsf cannot, de facto, lend this eur 440 billion if need be, due to the need to secure a triple-a rating for the efsf. so the minimum we can and should do is to increase the capacity of the fund. i think this is a very constructive proposal that should be adopted sooner rather than later.
president of the commission. − mr president, ‘sooner rather than later’ means precisely that: that we should not procrastinate. we have seen in the past that many analysts in the market consider the european union and the euro area to be reacting rather than acting. we need to be ahead of the curve, not behind the curve, so as soon as possible it shall be! in fact, it seems that the euro area meeting yesterday and today’s ecofin meeting made some progress. we are contacting our member states. i believe that is important. and i think it will be wise, since we have the european council on 4 february, to address these issues there. we are ready to do so. the commission is ready to address these issues on 4 february.
pt commission. − let me tell you, without any ambiguity, that we fully support social dialogue. we do it at european level but afterwards we have to do it also at national level; that is a member state responsibility. i have been actively promoting all this social dialogue with etuc, with businesseurope and with other relevant partners. but in fact we are of the opinion that we should now create more incentives to work; we have to address the situation of our labour markets. i think this is part of the structural reforms which are needed to increase europe’s competitiveness.
president of the commission. − the focus is not only on the labour market. we are reforming the financial markets with the active support and participation of this parliament. we also discussed at length the need to deepen internal market reform in the annual growth survey. we are now specifically discussing energy markets, but the labour market is also part of the structural reforms needed to increase europe’s competitiveness, especially in those countries that are now most vulnerable. as you know, some of them are already undertaking important labour market reforms.
president of the commission. − as you said, mr verhofstadt, we have been raising the issue with our russian partners and in fact the european union has already publicly reacted to the proceedings against mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev through the declaration by high representative catherine ashton. we believe that judicial independence and the right of each and every citizen to a fair trial – as enshrined in the european convention on human rights, to which russia is a party – are of crucial importance to the strategic partnership between the european union and the russian federation. the rule of law is also a cornerstone of the ‘partnership for modernisation’ that we are now developing with russia. we will continue to closely follow this and raise the issue in different formats and meetings with russia, as emphasised in the last european union-russia summit on 7 december in brussels. the european union expects russia to respect its international commitments in the field of human rights and also to respect the rule of law.
president of the commission. − with hungary, as with any other member state, we have to implement european law in an objective, impartial manner. we have to look at it very cautiously from a legal point of view, so we need to follow a clear methodology. that is what we – in the shape of vice-president kroes – have been doing. yesterday she gave extensive reports to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on culture and education. we have some concerns about hungary’s media law. by the end of this week we intend to send a first letter to the government of hungary to which the hungarian authorities should respond. i repeat: we have to follow clear, objective, impartial, legally-based procedures, because hungary, just like any other eu member state, has the right to impartiality on the part of the commission. i can reassure you, however, that we are following this matter very attentively.
president of the commission. − of course we are keeping this parliament fully informed. as i said earlier, commission vice-president kroes met the relevant committees of this parliament yesterday. at the same time, you will understand that these issues have a legal dimension and that we have to follow the methodology in a very clear, objective way. the commission has a very good reputation and a level of credibility in all these matters that we certainly we do not want to put at risk. i can reassure you that we are following the issue with great attention and we have already expressed these concerns. i have personally taken up this issue with prime minister orbán. tomorrow he is coming to this parliament. we can discuss this politically, but we also have to follow the clear procedures in this matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a few days ago, the interstate aviation committee in moscow published its report on the causes of the smolensk air disaster on april 10 last year. the polish public has received this report with great surprise and treats it as a document that is not objective. it has already been proven in the last few days that this report has hidden facts that are inconvenient for russia, and the whole report is aimed at blaming the polish side for this tragic event that took place in smolensk. in poland, no one in their right mind would question the mistakes made by our country in the entire process of preparing and carrying out the visit of the president's sacred memory. nevertheless, the russian report bears all the hallmarks of a political game that is designed to distance the russian side from any allegations. i would therefore like to know what the commission's assessment of this report is and whether the european commission intends to do anything to clarify the causes of the tragedy in smolensk, in which a head of state of the european union and many representatives of the political elite of my country were killed.
president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to say to mr kamiński that nobody will ever forget this terrible tragedy, either in poland or elsewhere. we felt deeply the death of president kaczynski and all those who were with him on that tragic day. i am, of course, aware of the russian report published last week and i am also aware of the polish reactions to it, for which i have a great deal of understanding, given the scale of this tragedy. that said, the commission can act in these situations only when we have the right legal basis on which to do so. by the way, we have never been approached by the polish authorities to intervene in this matter although, of course, we remain ready to do whatever lies within our legal competence, should we receive such a request.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'd like to understand you. so far, the polish government has not asked the commission to clarify the causes of the smolensk disaster. but if the polish government asks the european commission for help, will the commission take action?
president of the commission. − the commission does not need the member states’ permission before we express an opinion. our proposal was made very much in line with the conclusions of the last european council, when the member states stated that they were ready to do whatever was necessary to protect the financial stability of the euro area. they specifically mentioned the efsf and said that they were ready to reinforce it. so in fact there was no contradiction. i cannot comment on the comments of others, but i can tell you what the position of the commission is: it is a unanimous position that is shared by the president of the european central bank; it is the position of the other relevant institutions that are keeping a very close eye on the financial stability of the euro area. i think that we should highlight what unites us rather than some specific issues about the way we communicate.
president of the commission. − mr president, i should point out that the european court of auditors is a fully independent body. the commission has absolutely no influence over its methods or audit priorities, nor would we seek to have that kind of influence. it is in the commission’s own interest, and in the european interest, to respect the independence of its external auditor. i have never made negative comments about decisions of courts, be it the constitutional courts, the european court of justice or the court of auditors. that is a basic principle of democracy, respect for the rule of law and respect for independent institutions. a regular dialogue exists, of course, between the commission as auditee and the court as auditor, as part of the audit process. this is normal and necessary to ensure the audit process works well and that all findings in the audit process are on a solid basis. such a dialogue is fully in accordance with all international standards. i should probably also point out that in previous years the commission was subject to extremely critical reports from the court of auditors. i think we should respect our institutions, namely the independent institutions.
president of the commission. − the commission, like the european parliament, has the right to express its opinions on the audit process. you are now expressing an opinion on it, and you are fully entitled to do so. the commission is also a political body. we have been elected by this parliament, so we have the right to express our opinion. in no way can this be regarded as a form of pressure, unless we are also to regard your comments as intolerable pressure. this is in fact an exercise in transparency. so, once and for all, we fully respect the court of auditors, we do not put pressure on the court of auditors and we try to do our best to implement the recommendations of the independent audit institution that is the court of auditors.
president of the commission. − first of all you know the position of the european commission regarding israel. we fully support the existence of israel. as you said, it is a democratic state in a very difficult environment and we fully recognise the right of israel to exist. at the same time, we would like israel to respect the right of self-determination of the palestinian people, and we believe the best solution is for two states – israel and the palestinian state – to exist in full respect of each other and of international law. regarding the issue of a change of capital or our representation in israel, we see no reason to change it.
president of the commission. − i think the european union’s position regarding the settlements has been fully in line with that of the international community, including israel’s closest allies. we believe the way the settlements issue has been dealt with by the current government has not always been helpful in terms of the current efforts for peace in that region. the comments you made show precisely why we should not have a representation in jerusalem as a result of the difficult situation in that extremely important city for israel and for all of us. so let us keep our commitment to peace. let us support israel. at the same time, let us not forget the rights of the palestinian people. i think they also deserve our attention and support.
we now come to the second part of question hour, a specific and concrete topic on innovation and energy.
president of the commission. − mr president, you cut the honourable member off just when he was saying something nice about me, for which i thank him. regarding the first part of his intervention, we do not have the means – and it is not our priority now – to explore, or support the exploration of, other sources of energy in europe. our priority in terms of infrastructure is to establish interconnections, because that has a critical european dimension. we are going to make proposals on that matter to the european council. something has been achieved already – for instance bemip, the baltic energy market interconnection plan, for the baltic countries. now we are working also with central and eastern european countries to establish, if possible, north-south interconnections, and things are going well. i have just been to azerbaijan and turkmenistan in connection with work on the southern gas corridor, a new potential means of bringing energy – in this case gas – to europe. this is where i believe the european union can make some investments in energy infrastructures.
president of the commission. − as you said, it is correct that eur 200 billion of investment is needed for gas infrastructures and power grids up to 2020. it is estimated that eur 100 billion of this total investment need will be delivered on time by the market alone, whereas the other eur 100 billion will require public action on permitting and leveraging the necessary private capital. that is why we are now proposing, for instance, unbundling. we are proposing many measures that will make this private investment more rational and more useful. we will also take a closer look at tariff regulation practices in order to liberate adequate cost allocation principles. to fill the remainder of the gap, the commission proposes a new financial instrument to support projects of european interest for the new financial perspective after 2013. beyond grants, innovative market-based solutions may be proposed such as equity participations, guarantees and public-private partnership loans. as you know, i already spoke about european funds through project bonds specifically designed for this kind of project.
president of the commission. − as mrs alfano rightly said, this is a detailed question. i cannot know the detail of all the infringement procedures. let me tell you – i think it is an important point – just on energy and the internal market for energy, we have now 77 infringement procedures with member states in general, and 55 on the internal market. so if you provide me with that question in writing, i will be more than happy to send a reply in writing.
president of the commission. − you know the position of the commission regarding nuclear energy. with full respect for subsidiarity in that matter, some member states have it and some do not. no one is forced to have nuclear energy, but in fact it is true that nuclear energy is, in terms of climate change, less polluting than other sources of energy. having said that, the commission has certain obligations under the euratom treaty. at the beginning of the european union we had the euratom community, and the commission has not only the right but also the duty to provide assistance to member states that require it in the fields of nuclear safety or research into nuclear matters. that is certainly what we intend to do.
you are bringing an optimistic message from azerbaijan and turkmenistan. the only shortage is figures. i understand that at this stage you cannot set the figures with azerbaijan and turkmenistan in terms of millions of cubic metres of gas, but does the commission have any estimates or expectations of its own, obviously non-binding, which point to whether it would be able to fill the southern corridor as a whole or nabucco in particular, which is supposed to provide 31 million cubic metres?
president of the commission. − the internal energy market legislation sets high standards of consumer protection with regard to the provision of a minimum service, transparency of billing, effective complaint handling and so on, and it provides choices to consumers. i could quote many other areas in which we are proposing measures that directly address consumers’ concerns. regarding lower energy bills, we think that, in the medium term at least, in a real integrated energy market, true competition can achieve more than the current situation, in which there are many dysfunctions and examples of dominant market positions. regarding funding for energy security projects, as i said earlier, we certainly intend to propose it in the next financial perspectives. so part of it has to come from market solutions, but part of it has to come from public investment. the european commission is preparing some proposals that will move in this direction for the next financial perspectives.
colleagues, thank you for the discussion on innovation and energy which is a very important topic as we know very well. our thanks to you, mr president of the commission. it is the second time today that you have been here in a hard discussion in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! there are no perfect laws. there are advantages and disadvantages everywhere, but this directive definitely brings more hope than fear. europe, despite its rapid change, remains a continent of great differences and even contrasts. this also applies to the level and scale of healthcare, and it is evident that poorer countries, countries in transition and emerging countries are more concerned. but the level of funding and the level of health care in countries that are in transition is much, much lower. so this directive represents a huge opportunity and hope for all these patients in the countries i'm talking about. governments face a great challenge, but paradoxically, this directive will force many reforms and will draw attention to the scale of underfunding of healthcare, because underfunding is not only the result of these countries' lack of financial capacity, but also the result of policy errors and a misunderstanding of the enormous importance of health to european citizens. i thank you and i appeal to you to support this directive, whatever the final shape of the so-called safeguard clause, which is a compromise. and that word is good news.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating mrs grossetête, who has done a very difficult job. this was not an easy task, given the different positions of the european union countries and the different health systems in each country. to achieve a compromise between expectations and possibilities, it was necessary not only to have the ability to negotiate, but above all to have knowledge of the subject. we are all aware that the solutions contained in the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, which the rapporteur has spoken about in detail, are awaited by the people of the european union, especially in those countries where access to specialist doctors and modern procedures is limited. it is important that the work on the text of the directive and the compromises reached have changed the attitude of the countries that originally blocked its entry. the essence of this directive is the accessibility, ease and certainty of healthcare, as well as the right of the patient to use healthcare services of another country and to be reimbursed for certain costs. the directive is based on the needs of the patient, not on financial means. i would like to point out that the provisions of the directive will not only improve the health situation of patients, but i believe that it will also be the basis for improving health systems in some countries of the european union. it should be stressed that the directive is a first and fundamental step towards patient mobility, towards strengthening their rights and towards equalising the level of services in the various member states.
in writing. the entry into force of the patients without borders directive is a great opportunity for all patients in the european union, but especially for patients from less developed countries whose health services have much to offer. they will have better access to treatment abroad than ever before. it is also hoped that the new solutions will be the impetus for changes in national healthcare systems. this is especially true for reducing long queues for people waiting for various types of hospital treatment. the risk of outflows to foreign clinics will force administrative decisions on better management of hospital beds and treatments in countries with longer queues. the obligation for patients to set up contact points in each eu country is important, as this will give patients more information about treatment options abroad or the achievements of foreign clinics in the treatment of rare or very serious diseases. it is important that, once the new rules have entered into force, their effects, their impact on improving the quality of services, but also on accessibility for different groups of patients in different regions of europe, are closely monitored. first of all, who benefits from them: whether it's just the better informed, more resourceful social groups or everyone in need.
mr. chairman, please! as the population of the european union ages, the proportion of people suffering from old age diseases is increasing. statistics show that one in five people over the age of 80 suffers from alzheimer's disease. not everyone knows that it is an incurable disease, but with proper prevention and early diagnosis, its effects can be delayed. according to the 2009 world alzheimer's report, 28% of people with dementia live in europe, the second largest dementia population in the world after asia. in poland, the country i represent, there are about 250,000 people with alzheimer's disease, and experts estimate that by 2040, that number will triple. as you can see, these numbers are disturbing. dementia has both social and economic consequences, affecting not only the patient but also those close to him. so i'm glad we're addressing this important issue today. only cooperation, highly specialised research and a broad information campaign will allow for faster diagnosis and better prevention.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. thank you for asking. on research infrastructure: especially in the field of innovation, smes are already receiving substantial funding from the erdf, in the high double-digit billions of euros, in the field of innovation support. in the period 2000-06, a total of over 30 000 companies have focused their efforts on this area. we think that research infrastructure should also have a considerable importance, especially in the future, going well beyond the sphere of economics in the field of basic research. we may be able to finance for the first time in the current period a research infrastructure project which is also included in the esfri roadmap, because the study of this project has shown that it is a very sustainable impact in a region beyond the project itself, precisely because it creates jobs, not only for researchers but also for subcontractors, because basic research infrastructure also needs subcontracting and service. so this can be a real hub in a specific area in a region - in the case of a hungarian region. this should also be a signal for the next programme period, for example towards universities, which will then have a concrete impact. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. whether it is within the company where they are employed or when they are not employed to improve their skills or simply to improve their skills for other job opportunities in general. i can give you an example, because you may have mentioned it, and it has always been criticized, that training was provided for employees of mcdonald's, for example. there 's a difference here . these were training activities for mcdonald's employees to improve their skills in the workplace and in the world of work. you know, there is some criticism that the jobs at mcdonald's - they're also nicknamed "mcjobs" - are jobs, part-time jobs, some of which don't require high qualifications, jobs that are done by students and where the focus is on training these people. the project was funded by the european commission and the european social fund. we therefore try and strive to ensure that the training of employees is geared to their personal qualifications. in this context, i think that we should not make a difference in terms of where people are employed, but the objective must be to further improve the individual quality of qualifications, to make people fitter against the background of an increasingly mobile working environment, in order to avoid unemployment here if possible.
member of the commission. − dear colleagues, i am pleased to report that both parts of the european progress microfinance facility – the guarantees part and the cash products part – are now entirely operational. only three months after the entry into force of the decision, the commission finalised the mandate for the european investment fund to launch the guarantee operations for microfinance providers. last november the commission established a specialised investment vehicle. as a result, the first micro-loans will be provided starting from this month. i am also pleased to report that the commission has been successful in securing additional funding for micro-entrepreneurs in europe. the european investment bank will match the european union’s contribution of eur 100 million, and further contributors are expected. as a result, the overall volume of loans under the progress microfinance facility will amount, as planned, to around eur 500 million. this money will benefit unemployed people, people facing social exclusion or vulnerable persons who face difficulties in accessing the conventional credit market. ensuring outreach to these target groups and promoting geographical balance are key elements of the mandate given by the commission to the european investment fund. operations approved so far, or under preparation, suggest that both objectives will be met. as from early 2011, micro-loans will be provided through a start-up microfinancing institution in belgium which focuses on disadvantaged urban communities, and through a foundation in the netherlands which targets individuals with no access to conventional finance. the eif has announced that the operations being prepared will also be balanced in terms of geographical coverage. about 40% are expected to involve intermediaries investing in europe and about 60% in central and eastern europe. it is well known that microfinance is most effective if business starters and micro-enterprises are accompanied through business support services. as such, the commission will undertake measures to support european social fund managing authorities and intermediate bodies to step up the promotion of self-employment and micro-enterprises. for the current esf programming period, the member states have earmarked more than eur 2.7 billion to promote entrepreneurship. entrepreneurs can also be supported through interest rebates. however, whether or not interest rebates are subsidised through the esf is a decision to be taken by the individual member states. at present only one member state, namely lithuania, has indicated that it makes use of this possibility. lastly, the commission will promote information about the progress microfinance facility. the microfinance providers who are closest to the target beneficiaries will provide information on the availability of micro-loans. the commission will make use of existing networks of public employment services, esf managing authorities and ngos to provide information on the progress of the microfinance facility. last but not least, the youth on the move campaign will pay special attention to opportunities for young people from different backgrounds to start up their own businesses and receive micro-loans.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i just wanted to thank you for the information. i fully agree with you that the instrument we are talking about here today is a very important instrument. but it's worth noting that we also have to answer the question of which countries use the microfinance instrument. i was concerned about your statement that you said that we should ensure that the distribution, in terms of countries and geography, is different. so what countries have already used this instrument?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to raise just one point, although there are many different things that could be discussed. i wanted to ask you, commissioner, are you working on increasing the funds for youth exchange programmes in europe? i have the impression that for at least a few years now, the pool of funds that we have for erasmus or other programmes has been the same. these scholarships are actually very low today.
madam president! the european union has not forgotten haiti. we are by far the largest source of humanitarian aid. what is depressing is that the country is still in economic and political chaos. humanitarian aid in haiti has been delivered in two classic phases. the first phase of the relief effort was to provide relief to people in their most urgent needs. in the second phase, we were to focus on the reconstruction of the country, both economically and sociopolitically. but because of the cholera epidemic, the hurricane, the political and social instability, and even the interfaith tensions and fighting, the humanitarian relief period has been longer than we originally expected. it was therefore not possible to proceed to this second stage either to the extent and at the pace that we would have liked. the crisis in haiti is still going on. we need to be involved all the time. we can't forget about our commitments. the commissioner also pointed out that the european commission had already committed half the funds promised at the donor conference in new york. in this respect, our plans are progressing well. the resolution we are adopting tomorrow in this house is intended to mobilise the member states and the commission to continue to fulfil the declarations we have made. let's not forget that hundreds of thousands of people are still living in makeshift camps, and more than 3,500 people have died of cholera. and from the very beginning, we also felt that the rebuilding process should be hosted by the haitian people themselves. the haitian reconstruction plan is based on decentralisation and a strong focus on local agricultural production and food security. we respect those haitian priorities. there is one more conclusion. we need to strengthen our humanitarian response capabilities, and i know the commissioner is already working on that.
madam president! a year ago, haiti was hit by a terrible cataclysm, a massive earthquake, which killed 200,000 people, leaving over 1,300,000 homeless. the relief and reconstruction efforts have been going on for a year. this is undoubtedly a large and very complex humanitarian operation. but the island needs not only material and financial assistance, but also the rebuilding of its administration and political stability, without which it cannot develop. moreover, the recent cholera epidemic, which has killed over 3,500 people, continues to threaten thousands. the experience of haiti shows that even large amounts of money will not help if not spent properly. the case of haiti should also be a sobering one, and it clearly shows the need for a well-functioning international aid system in the event of major natural disasters, which may also occur.
madam president! it will be almost a year since our last discussion on coordinating humanitarian aid and reconstruction in haiti. so today we're doing some sort of summary, and the conclusion is this: it's been a year since the tragedy, and the victims are still coming. there are two things that need to be emphasized here that are just as important, if not more important, than building new houses, new roads. first, we need to say, loud and clear, in this room, "stop the sexual violence epidemic". sources say that in the days following the earthquake, 250 rapes of women and girls were reported, and the situation is getting worse. this violence is escalating. it is high time to start speaking out about this shameful issue and to address this inhuman phenomenon and to start fighting sexual violence in haiti effectively. the second issue that has already been mentioned here is the cholera epidemic. the number of cases is decreasing, but it's obviously related to the time of year. and there's an interesting but disturbing phenomenon with patients who are faking cholera symptoms. it's hard for us to believe that we're going to spend the night in comfortable beds, but for these people, a night in a hospital is much better than a night in their own homes, and in fact, in a shack. and here, too, we should pay attention, especially since the cholera epidemic is sure to intensify with the change of seasons. we must therefore pay attention to this and we should improve the situation here in particular.
madam president! i'd like to be understood. i have no serious complaints about the current european union aid to haiti. the union does provide substantial material aid to haiti, and it is surprising that many other countries do not do so on the scale of the union. i would like to remind you that our reservations were raised by the union's action immediately after the disaster. the union was too slow to act, and humanitarian aid was clearly poorly coordinated. i would therefore like to ask what concrete conclusions the european commission drew from this aid, which was very slow at the time. i think this is a very important thing, because the timing of getting help is a matter of life or death for some people.
madam president! the situation in lithuania today is one of the right of any democratically elected government to freely legislate in its own country and the obligation to respect human rights protected by eu law and international conventions. the role of the european parliament is undoubtedly, among other things, to draw attention to all cases where human rights are violated, also because of belonging to different social groups. parliament has adopted resolutions on these issues on several occasions. he was always against violating those laws. today's debate is also the result of concerns that the draft amendment to lithuanian law may lead to restrictions on freedom of expression in lithuania on the basis of sexual orientation, for example. this concern is justified in the sense that the issue of the discriminatory treatment of human rights in lithuania by the lithuanian authorities has been raised on several occasions in the european parliament. i am thinking here first of all of the national minorities, who are unfortunately not treated equally by lithuanian law in terms of the rights they are granted. it is therefore worth stressing that draft national legislation must meet certain standards and be in line with eu law, which guarantees equal treatment for defined minorities, including national ones.
madam president! it seems that there is no parliament in the world more sensitive to the protection of the rights of sexual minorities than the european parliament. the lithuanian law, which is also badly translated in the resolution we are being asked to vote on, has not yet been adopted. the european parliament is already criticizing one of the member states. i think we should not interfere in the sovereign legislative process that is taking place in lithuania, in a sovereign state. we should certainly have more confidence in the legislative process in lithuania, more understanding for those lithuanian mps who are pointing out that children and young people in particular should often be better protected from the often aggressive exposure of sexual content. it's a perfectly natural discussion. it seems that children's rights are completely ignored in this discussion. we cannot find that trust in this resolution, nor respect for sovereignty, nor moderation, nor any consideration of the rights of the child. that's why we can't really support this text.
madam president! the majority of the union's citizens share the belief that all people are equal and have the same rights. unfortunately, in some european countries, the level of tolerance for sexual minorities is still too low. there are cases of incitement to hatred against homosexuals, banning of equality marches, and even legal regulations contrary to eu law, such as the discriminatory lithuanian project. such practices can be put to an end by establishing a uniform minimum level of protection in the union for persons who are subject to discrimination on grounds of age, sexual orientation, disability, religion or belief. when will that be? the complete separation of church and state is important, for homophobia is especially prevalent where religion is too prominent. homosexuality is still illegal in 76 countries, and in 8 islamic countries, homosexuality is punishable by death. in europe, the only legislation or projects that come to light are those that compromise the free world. that is why our resolution and the eu anti-discrimination directive are important.
the next item is the statements by the european council and the european commission on the conclusions of the european council of 16 and 17 december. in accordance with the treaty, the report and presentation will be made by the president of the european council, mr herman van rompuy.
president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, this debate has shown the complexity of the crisis and the complexity of the answers. one thing i want to say to you – and it is clearly a huge majority that shares european ideals and need to have a european response – is that we should not be divided by some differences that are not the most important ones. as some of you said, there is indeed a real challenge – sometimes a threat – to european integration today. we have seen that threat in this debate today. i have heard some comments, nationalistic comments, prejudiced comments that frankly speaking i am not used to hearing in the european parliament. they were a minority, but those comments were made, trying to deepen divisions between europeans, so-called rich and so-called poor europeans. and to those who made those comments – and i am amazed by those comments – against european solidarity, trying to deepen the cleavages between the rich and poor, i say: where were you when europe was financing your farmers after the war to feed your own people? where were you when europe was financing your infrastructures for the development and competitiveness of your countries? where were you when europe provided the internal market for selling your services and your products? where were you when europe was the basis for the prosperity and growth of your countries after the war? only selfish, short-sighted, short-term views can sustain these kinds of statements against european unity. i think this is a serious problem and several of you have highlighted it. my appeal to all those who share the european ideal is that we should be united in trying to have a comprehensive response in a matter that, being serious, we have to admit requires building a consensus. sometimes that is not easy in a european union with 27 member states, with the euro area now with 17 member states – and i very much welcome estonia as a new member – and with a process of decision-making that is not always the simplest one, in part because we are based on the principle of democracy. we have not only the european institutions, we have 27 democracies. the task we have in front of us is extremely difficult. that is why i want to appeal to all those who share the european ideal to not let us be distracted by what can be some differences of policy orientation. mr hughes, i very much respect your concern with social europe, but let us be completely open about this. what is the best way to support governments like the greek government, the spanish government, the portuguese government, that are led by very distinguished members of our political family. is it to support the reforms they are taking courageously, or to say simply that those reforms are against european values? we need structural reforms in europe, including in the labour sector. this is the reality. if you ask prime minister papandreou, prime minister zapatero, prime minister sócrates, this is exactly what they are doing or they are planning to go even deeper in those reforms. i believe the best way to support the courageous efforts that all of us are trying to make in europe at different paces is to have the language of truth. in the current world of competition, with the pressure of some stronger emerging economies now, either we adapt or we will be putting at risk our social market economy. we need it. we will do it, i believe, without calling into question workers’ rights. i want once again – i am going to respond to you in a minute, i have not forgotten your question – i believe it is extremely important that we respect the principles of social dialogue. i said it yesterday, i reaffirm it today. but in fact if you do not make this kind of fiscal consolidation and social reform, we will not have confidence and without confidence we will not have growth, and without growth we will not be able to provide employment to our citizens. to the distinguished member of this parliament who comes from ireland and asked a question suggesting that the problems of ireland were created by europe, let me say: the problems of ireland were created by irresponsible financial behaviour by some irish institutions and by the lack of supervision in the irish market. europe is now part of the solution, it is trying to support ireland. but it was not europe that created this irresponsible fiscal situation and this irresponsible financial behaviour. europe is trying to support ireland because it is important to know where the responsibility lies. this is why it is important to those of us – and this is clearly the majority – that believe in european ideals that we are able to have as much as possible a common response. another point which was made by some of you was: what is the level of ambition? once again let me make clear the position of the commission. we are for the most ambitious position in terms of integrated response. that is why the commission will be ready to support some of the measures that some of you have proposed. but we are living a situation where we believe, in times of crisis like this, in times of market instability, that it is critically important that we make a contribution to a consensus regarding member states and there were in fact some divisions on the way to address this crisis. revision of the treaty: you know what was the position of the commission. we said from the beginning that we thought it was possible to make a permanent mechanism without a revision of the treaty. but at least one member state of the european union – you need unanimity for those matters – stated clearly that a revision of the treaty was needed. since we believe it is important to have a permanent stability mechanism, the commission played a constructive role supporting this limited revision of the treaty. so i think it would be a complete mistake now to be divided on this matter; since we want to reinforce stability, i think it is important that we agree on this limited revision of the treaty. some of us would like to go further. i personally would like to go further in terms of the structuring and the deepening of the community approach. but we have to be responsible at this very specific moment we are living through and to try to have the most ambitious highest common denominator and not the lowest common denominator. that is why i want to state again that some of the proposals which were put forward are indeed themselves interesting ones, but they are not able at this moment to generate the necessary consensus, and the commission has to be very attentive to the contribution it gives to forging this consensus. finally, i think everybody has to make a contribution. i do not like those divisions about rich and poor or new and old or centre and periphery. in europe all the states have exactly the same dignity and those ideas of discriminating between member states are in fact very dangerous ideas for the european project. so how should we do it? we should ask all member states that are in a more vulnerable position to do whatever they have to do to restore confidence in their economies through appropriate macroeconomic stability, fiscal consolidation, structural reforms; this is critically important at this moment. we are not helping them if we are suggesting that they can escape that route; that is not helping them. at the same time those countries that are now in a better position should show solidarity with those countries as well. i think it is critically important that we have a strong response regarding stability of the euro area; that we are not, as happened sometimes in the past, behind the curve but ahead of the curve; that we give a comprehensive response which restores confidence in the determination of the euro area and the european union as a whole, and not just by statements but by acting. that is an important thing, that is a question of credibility. statements are important but that is not enough; it is important to act and for all of us as a whole to commit to stronger governance in the euro area and in the european union. this is indeed something that markets are asking of us. there is a problem of perception as to how we can take decisions and how we can implement those decisions. so we need stronger governance in the euro area; we need stronger economic policy coordination in the european union as a whole and basically we should, all of us, commit to the principles of solidarity and responsibility. it is not just a question of responsibility; it is question of solidarity. it is not just a question of solidarity; it is also a question of responsibility. only then can we achieve stability, and stability is the basis for our future prosperity.
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin with some positive elements. i apologize for being so positive sometimes. first, economic growth is much faster now than we thought a few weeks ago, a few months ago. in some countries unemployment is declining. who would have believed that in 2008 and 2009? for the european union as a whole, overall, from 2010-2011 employment will increase again after the most significant crisis in 70 years. and so, this was not expected, i repeat, a few months ago. but it does happen. secondly, there is of course a crisis, but our common currency - the common currency of at least 17 countries - is stable, in the sense that it now has an exchange rate against the us dollar of 1.30. there was a time when it was 0.85. nobody at that time said that the euro was in danger. compared to other continents, other major currencies, we have a current account balance which is in balance and we have, compared to other major countries, a budget deficit which is practically half that of them. this explains why, despite all our problems, the euro is a stable currency. i wanted to emphasize that point before moving on to others. of course, we're all very aware that we have to move on. but we must remember - i said it last time i was in this chamber - that we started this eurozone crisis, which is more a eurozone crisis than a euro crisis, without the appropriate instrument. we had to invent it almost immediately. it is a collective responsibility but it also explains why we have not moved as fast as we might have thought at the beginning and as fast as the circumstances required. but there was nothing. there was a pact for stability and growth that was not respected. there was no macroeconomic surveillance. there was no crisis mechanism, neither temporary nor permanent, and there were no strong institutions for financial supervision. we had to come up with this on the spot, in the middle of a crisis, and it's a collective responsibility. some of you have said, "it's too little and too late". well, the fact that we had little or no instruments explains why we are not in the structure too little and too late, but rather in the structure step by step. that's a great explanation. the second point i would like to make is that some of you have said, "yes, but the crisis is not under control. look at the market". but at the same time, and in the wake of that, others, and sometimes the same ones, say, "you can't let the markets dictate your behavior". it's one argument or it's the other argument, but it's not always very coherent. as for the measures taken, there are of course reforms to be undertaken in the member states, not just those facing problems, but in all the member states. reforms to unlock employment potential and unlock growth potential. of course, reforms are often painful. of course, it takes a titanic amount of work to get a fair distribution of the effort required. but i would remind you that some of the large countries which are now emerging more rapidly from the economic crisis took measures four, five, six years ago, very tough measures at home and which, at the time, met with a lot of resistance in the social camp. but this has had an effect on growth and employment. we must go through a difficult time, but we must make more efforts to ensure that this is distributed equitably. there are great examples in our union that prove that this approach is the right one. we need reforms at the level of the member states, and of course we need reforms at the level of the union itself and the eurozone in particular. that is why it is very important to put in place as soon as possible the economic governance that was decided in the task force, which was discussed on the basis of the six commission proposals to parliament, and to reach agreement among all those involved in the codecision. this is extremely urgent. if further progress is needed in the euro area, in the convergence of economic developments and in economic policy, it must be made. if we can do this through agreements between the countries in the euro zone, we must not only think about it, but we must work on it to reach a conclusion in the coming weeks, in the coming months. but it may be that we have to go further in the eurozone than what was decided in the task force that was involved in the commission's proposals. indeed, when we have a common currency, we need a common economic policy and parallel economic development among all the members of the eurozone. have we forgotten about structural economic growth? no, you can't! that is why, in the midst of the crisis, the europe 2020 strategy was decided in march. that is why the innovation and energy policy will be discussed in a few days' time at the february council. for among all the problems which the crisis forces us to deal with, we cannot forget the longer-term prospects, the structural prospects for growth and employment. and in the very short term, we are preparing a comprehensive approach to strengthening the instruments we created in 2010 to deal with the crisis. there is an agenda that is a clear agenda. can we go any faster? i know! as i said, there were two obstacles. the first was that everything had to be created at once, and the second was that, since we are in a democracy, there must be a consensus among our 27 member states, our 27 democracies. ladies and gentlemen, those who support the european project are in a large majority in this european parliament. let us not get into a bidding war over who is more european. i believe that the gap is widening between those who support the european project and those who do not. but the important thing is, despite all the problems, to keep the course, to keep the direction, the orientation. this is much more important than individual advances. it is the common will to work in the same direction of the european project which is essential, as was reiterated at the european council in december. it is with this gradual, step-by-step approach that we will achieve this. i am convinced that we are going in the right direction. i am convinced that there is a common will. i am convinced that we will succeed in the end. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you for your report, mr president. the next meeting of the european council will be on 4 february, and after that, also in february, the next report from president van rompuy. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the work programme of the hungarian presidency of the council. there's a rotating change of presidency. hungary is holding the presidency for the first time in its history. it is always an important event in the european union. during the belgian presidency, we developed new forms of cooperation with the presidency, with the council, with meetings at the level of the administration, the commission, the ministers and the presidents, that is, the presidency and the president of the european parliament. we will continue to work together in this way during the hungarian presidency, as i have already agreed with mr orbán. today we will discuss the work programme of the hungarian presidency. i would like to welcome prime minister viktor orbán to the european parliament. we look forward to a thorough discussion of many of the issues that will affect this semester and our cooperation.
the president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that our presence has generated such great interest in the european ... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
colleagues, we understand that this is a demonstration and you have made your point, but please leave it now. we must continue with our debate.
the president of the council. − i am pleased that the european parliament's sessions are as lively and as performative as those of the hungarian parliament, so i feel at home. thank you very much for the invitation, and i would like to extend my warm greetings to the members of this parliament, to president barroso and to the president of the european parliament, who is also a good friend of mine. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i'd like to say that i'm honored to be speaking as your next president. for you, of course, this is a six-monthly routine, every six months you see a prime minister presenting the agenda of the next presidency. from our point of view, from the point of view of hungarians, this is much more important than a semester's routine. for us, it's a historic act of justice to be standing here today. i would like to remind you that after the second world war, hungary gave the most human life and blood for freedom and democracy. both during the revolution in 1956 and in the aftermath of the reprisals. we were the first to break the communist system, the first to take up arms against the soviet empire and we proved to the world that the communist doctrine is not a harmless ideology but a dangerous threat to western civilization. we knocked the first brick out of the wall of communism, and through that crack, the wire carried the entire communist system. ladies and gentlemen, so i feel that we hungarians can rightly say that we have done a lot to bring europe back together. so it's a kind of historical justice for hungarians that the prime minister of hungary can speak here today as the next president. i want to assure you that we are following in their footsteps, with their ideas, the ideas and the faith of the revolutionaries of '56, we want to serve the cause of european unity. ladies and gentlemen, we in central europe, so we, hungarians, have always been interested in a united europe, and we are still interested. but european unity, its creation and maintenance, also require strength. twenty years ago, europe had the power to overcome its divisions and become united. he understood that there was a historic moment he had to seize to unite europe. this strength is also reflected in the slogan 'strong europe', which is the motto of the hungarian presidency. ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a challenge today of the same magnitude as 20 years ago, so it is perhaps no exaggeration to say that the european union is facing the most difficult year of the past 20 years. we must now weather the storms of a global crisis and find europe's place in a completely transformed, redistributed world economy. i am of the opinion that europe must remain united in order to stand, and that unity still requires strength today. i am convinced that all the member states of the european union, including my own country, can only be strong and successful if the european union itself is strong. if it is strong, it will respond to global competitiveness challenges, demographic challenges, environmental challenges, climate challenges and security challenges. the question is, where will europe get its strength? to answer that question, we need to ask another question, which sounds like, what is weakening europe today? what is it that is destroying the competitiveness of our entire civilization today? obviously, it's not other continents that threaten us, it's not an alien ideology that threatens us, but quite the opposite, a very practical problem is our real problem. in a very short, simple word, describe the english language, this is called debt. europe's strength is being eroded by its unrelenting debt. in the new post-crisis world, the western world, and in it europe, is the biggest obstacle and the biggest risk to the new competition. ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency is convinced that there is only one way to beat the debt, and it's called work. we hungarians know this very well, because the problem with the hungarian economy is precisely that we have the lowest employment rate in europe, in the european union. i'm ashamed to say, only 55%. and if there is no work, if there is no work, then there is no money, then there is debt, then there is credit. well, ladies and gentlemen, for us, the traditional european mentality, which values work, is our real resource for the future. it was the european mentality of work that made our civilization successful. we have a european code of conduct, one of the cornerstones of which for centuries has been the precept of prudent management, that is, we cannot spend more money than we can produce. another fundamental european value is that we should not burden our children and grandchildren with debt. i believe that respect for work is also a reflection, a realization that you can only get something if you work for it. if we can get ahead of ourselves with everything that would otherwise be the fruit of years of work, then the meaning of our work is questioned, and the meaning of our work becomes more and more the payment of our growing debt, and our whole attitude towards work will change. this is the crisis we all face. ladies and gentlemen, the debt diagnosis is one that everyone agrees on. it's like a disease for us, the debating european politicians. the diagnosis is agreed upon, but the therapy is hotly debated. but the disease is dangerous, and time is of the essence. so my view is that there's not much time to argue, especially not about rejecting certain therapies that are unusual or novel, just because they're unusual and novel. we need courage and openness to enable national governments and parliaments to manage their debt crises. i am convinced that this is what the citizens of europe expect from us. they expect jobs, they expect growth, they expect security, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency, whose precise description you will find in this little book, has put economic issues at the centre of its attention, and the top of the hungarian presidency's priority list is occupied by issues relating to the economic and debt crisis. ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency believes that the direction chosen by the council, namely the direction of crisis management, is correct, but further efforts are still needed, and we are therefore convinced that an amendment to the basic treaty should be made and the legal basis should be created to replace the current temporary crisis management mechanism with a permanent stability mechanism from 13 january. the hungarian presidency will do everything in its power to achieve this. the hungarian presidency will also focus on strengthening economic policy coordination, promoting economic growth and sustainable economic growth for job creation. that is why it is a priority of our presidency, and i would like to ask for your cooperation in this, to bring about the six pieces of legislation that will help to achieve this objective, economic policy coordination. i would like to ask for your full cooperation in this regard. the hungarian presidency will be a parliamentary presidency, so i ask you to do everything possible to ensure that these six laws, in cooperation with us, can be enacted as soon as possible. the hungarian presidency is convinced that the structural reforms of the member states must be implemented more consistently and coordinated. the european semester has started, and this is new for all of us, not just for us hungarians, but also for you, because this is a completely new programme of the european union. the commission's annual report on macroeconomic growth has opened the semester, and i would like to congratulate president barroso on the excellent document which is a first step and which sets out the directions, the issues which will form the basis of the discussions in the council formations during our presidency. ladies and gentlemen, of course, national credibility is also needed if one is to propose a common economic policy for europe. i want to inform you that there is a good chance that my country, which has been sitting in the shame of the european union for a long time because of the excessive deficit procedure, now has a real chance to get out of this situation. in 2011, hungary's budget deficit will be below 3%, and we will be one of the two eu member states where the public debt will decrease in 2011. this is essential for the credibility of our presidential programme. ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency attaches great importance to strengthening the single market. we believe that strengthening the single market is one of the possible sources of economic growth. we want to break down existing constraints, we want to deregulate and we want to extend the single market to new areas such as digitalisation. we support the creation of a favourable business environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. energy policy and innovation are among the key issues of the hungarian presidency, which we will discuss at a joint summit on 4 february. i would like to inform you that, in hungary's view, it is crucial to overcome the remaining regulatory obstacles in the field of energy policy and to create the missing infrastructural links in order to create a real and viable energy market in europe. equally important is the hungarian presidency's objective of having a diversified energy supply chain in europe. the european energy policy is about to make a breakthrough, and the member states have concluded agreements - i will sign the slovak-hungarian agreement with the slovak prime minister next week - which will allow the first north-south gas distribution system from the baltic sea to the adriatic sea, including romania, to the black sea, to become operational, to become a full-fledged interconnector. after 40 years of thinking east and west, the north-south link is missing, and in this respect i regard the agreements ahead of us as a breakthrough. ladies and gentlemen, the roma strategy is a priority for the hungarian presidency, because europe can't be smart if it doesn't have a heart. and europe will only have a heart if it creates opportunities for social inclusion for the most disadvantaged groups. this is not the time to discuss roma strategy, but i just want to point out to you as the leader of the country concerned that we are all playing with fire, and if we fail to develop a roma strategy at european level, the already established and to some extent integrated roma communities in europe will again choose a nomadic lifestyle and thus the problem will spread from the territory of the countries concerned today to the territory of other countries. this gives us the reason to give a european strategic response to the roma issue, which is otherwise a matter of national competence, and i would personally be very proud if we all together, by the end of the hungarian presidency, in june, were able to adopt a common european roma strategy. ladies and gentlemen, i must also touch on the question of enlargement, even though i too see that the enlargement frenzy is prevalent in europe, which is understandable. the hungarian presidency is also keen to see the return of enlargement optimism in europe. we want the european union to recognize that we have an unfinished business here, because not all european nations that can be integrated into the european community are within the european union. in fact, i personally feel it is unfair that a country like croatia, which has done better in recent years than, say, hungary, which is inside the union, is still outside and we do not allow it to be among the member states. the hungarian presidency therefore wishes to take the croatian accession negotiations until the signing, the closing period. i know the schengen expansion is a controversial issue. we are talking about romania and bulgaria, but as a person who is familiar with this region and is also a border country with this particular area, i know exactly that these countries are prepared, and although i know that the hungarian presidency will be subject to debate, i will always stand, i personally will always stand, for bulgaria and romania to be admitted to the schengen area as soon as possible, that is, as soon as possible. ladies and gentlemen, the hungarian presidency's agenda includes the danube strategy and the conviction that the union must continue to play a leading role in the global fight against climate change, and we would therefore like to see the results of the cancun summit in december 2010 enter the implementation phase so that we can continue negotiations with a view to reaching legally binding decisions by the end of 2011. ladies and gentlemen, my time is running out of courtesy, so i will just mention that the hungarian presidency will discuss family policy and the demographic situation, and i would like to avoid provoking interinstitutional debates, but hungary could contribute to the european union taking a clear and firm position on religious freedom and standing up against the persecution of christians. it's the big question of the semester ahead. ladies and gentlemen, and so, in closing, i want to say to you that i am aware that we are all politicians, sitting or standing in this room. we have our own views, our own principles, our own comrades, and we have our own interests. in view of all this, i respectfully suggest that whatever your opinion on hungarian domestic politics, do not confuse your critical remarks and actions on hungarian domestic politics with the next six months of the hungarian presidency of the european union. if they are confused, i am of course ready to fight, but if they are confused, it is not hungary that suffers, but first and foremost the entire community of the european union, and therefore for the sake of the european union and the difficult tasks ahead of us, i ask you to make this distinction whenever you have the opportunity to do so. hungary also put the last debate back on the ground of common sense and reasonable discourse when i agreed with president barroso that we welcome the eu investigations into the media law that has been criticized, we will consult on the comments continuously, and if any objections can be identified and verified, we are of course ready to amend the law. because these questions are not questions of prestige, they're not questions of scandal, they're not questions of vanity. by the way, i'll just note in closing that if anyone wants to fight for freedom of the press in europe, then they can always count on a hungarian government that has taken part in the anti-communist struggle in the future. ladies and gentlemen, we know that europe is facing a very difficult semester, but i am optimistic and i think europe can cope with this task. europe was able to create cooperation between the peoples of europe after the second world war, despite the hatred and the ruin, and was able to reunite europe in 1989 and 1990, so there is every reason to believe that it can also respond to the similar historical challenge that we are facing today. this means that during the hungarian presidency and afterwards, we need more than ambitious management. we must look beyond the files that are piled up on our desks, and even beyond the horizon of cases that can be dealt with in six months or a year or two. the hungarian presidency is convinced that only common goals and values can unite a community. common goals can only be based on common values. the hungarian presidency will carry out its day-to-day work in the interest of this great and far-reaching european goal, with respect for all of you and with total humility towards the cause. thank you for your kind attention.
prime minister, thank you for your speech and presentation of the programme of activities of the hungarian presidency of the council.
madam president! it is good that the european presidency is being taken over by a government which enjoys such great support at home. he has this support because he is acting in the interests of hungary, raising hungary up after the bankrupt, businesslike hungarian socialist governments. it is not good that hungary is facing unjust ideological attacks on the threshold of the presidency. how false and hypocritical these attacks are is shown by the issue of the media law. in poland, there's the same media council. in poland, the media council is dominated by the ruling party, and that council is leading to the expulsion of dozens of people, journalists with conservative beliefs, from polish public media, and no one in europe, with mr schulz at the head, is defending them. it's just the way it is. how hypocritical this attack is is shown by a curious letter that appeared last week against hungary, signed by the former president of the czech republic or hungary, as well as the head of the gazeta wyborcza in poland. this electoral gazette, which leads to the confiscation of property of people who disagree with the electoral gazette. this is the truth about today's attack on hungary, which is nothing less than retaliation for the effective conservatism that has been put into place. i wish you, prime minister orbán, as effective a european presidency as you have been... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, the hungarian presidency has a unique opportunity to put into practice energy security for europe. there will be two consecutive presidencies – hungarian and polish – with strong political determination to use all the possibilities at hand. the issues we face so far are a consolidation or monopoly of supply and transit, lack of an interconnected single market and particular vulnerability on the union’s eastern flank. what we expect from the hungarian presidency is that it will utilise the geometry of the union in the form of a triangle: a north-south baltic-adriatic axis or corridor, with energy ports in poland and croatia, complemented by the caspian gas pipeline supplying the eu directly, separately and independently, initially from azerbaijan and turkmenistan. the southern corridor should obviously include the nabucco project. so a new source of energy security for europe is the ultimate challenge for the hungarian presidency. the three imperative aims are to build interconnectors, to ensure adequate funding and to boost the external dimension of eu energy policy because energy is a public good for the union, it needs to be europeanised, the policy must be based on solidarity, and our political will should guarantee its implementation.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would firstly like to thank prime minister orbán for his presentation of a very ambitious programme. i would also like to thank the members for a lovely debate and an intense exchange of views. i think that democratic debate is the best way to find the best solutions for europe. however, there is one condition, and that is that the interlocutors must have a common goal. i believe that we have such a goal because most of us in this house want a stronger europe. the motto chosen by the hungarian presidency is thus a very appropriate and good one. on behalf of the commission, i would therefore emphasise that we must support the goals of the hungarian presidency. as the debate made clear, there is a tall order for this semester. we have to introduce economic governance, find solutions to the sovereign debt crisis, and implement the eu 2020 strategy much more quickly – to name but a few of the aims in the economic field. however, we very much welcome the hungarian presidency’s focus on seeking a better solution regarding the integration of roma, and on the danube strategy. i should like to comment on the issue of how to integrate roma in the european union more effectively. as you know, we engaged in a very broad programme to raise awareness and promote coordinated dialogue in the member states on opportunities offered by eu funds. following on from hungary in 2009 and romania in 2010, slovakia and bulgaria will be the focus this year. i believe that, together with you and with the hungarian presidency, we will be able in april to deliver the new eu framework for national roma integration strategies. i would like to comment on mr cohn-bendit’s remarks because i consider it very important to demonstrate clearly at this time that the eu stands by tunisia and its people. i would like, in particular, to pay tribute to the courage that all tunisians have shown in recent days. i am sure that the eu will support tunisians as they pursue their peaceful and democratic aspirations. the new unity government should truly represent the wishes of tunisian society. it should conduct the country through a peaceful and democratic transition and organise early elections. i would like to assure this parliament that we stand ready to provide immediate assistance in preparing and organising the electoral process and to offer lasting support for a genuine democratic transition. if requested, we are also prepared to deploy the necessary assistance to help the tunisian authorities with urgent needs. in answer to the calls for swift action from the commission on the question of media law, i would like to inform the honourable members that our discussion with the hungarian authorities at political level and at expert level is intense and ongoing. the commission will send a clarification letter to budapest this week seeking further explanations. i should like to emphasise once again that we are acting very swiftly, given the complexity of the issue. i must also repeat what president barroso said: that we are much encouraged by prime minister orbán’s political commitment to correcting the law if necessary. we are fully confident that hungary will take all the necessary steps to ensure that the new media law is implemented with full respect for european values on media freedom and for the relevant eu legislation as well as the european convention on human rights. the commission will, in this regard, act in full accordance with its role as guardian of the treaties. i should like to conclude by saying that we have full trust in the commitment and enthusiasm of the hungarian presidency. we have seen the solid preparation made by the hungarian authorities for this task, with a view to being a very energetic presidency in this important semester. we believe that together we can further the european project. i am sure that the european parliament will support this work and will play its role in a spirit of loyal cooperation. we clearly need to make very substantive progress on our top priorities in this semester. i wish the presidency all the best for the next six months. we are looking forward to working together for the benefit of europe. [applause]
the president of the council. - mr president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to thank the members who have honoured us with their contributions to this exciting and valuable debate. this debate was too valuable to be settled in a brief, one-minute brief reply. i'll respect your time, but i'm forced to answer a few questions. first, i'll put on the hungarian prime minister's hat. allow me to express my surprise that so many serious and respectable people like the ones who have commented are in the wrong. it would be unworthy and humiliating, not only for you, but also for me, if i were to tell you now, one by one, who and what objective errors were committed by mr. schulz and others in the matter of the hungarian media law and hungarian democracy. just to make it clear what kind of objective errors you are in, i will mention an example: in the hungarian media law, imbalance cannot be sanctioned and no fine can be imposed for it. what are they protesting? and i could go on and on and on. so i want to make it clear that i'm sorry that you were so grossly deceived and misled. i can see that i cannot hope for fairness in this debate, but i must trust that the european commission will be able to formulate an impartial and objective position, which i will be happy to accept and follow the procedure described. however, i would like to remind you that i regard as a valuable contribution the idea of mr schulz, the leader of the group of the european people's party, that the hungarian presidency will be judged not on the basis of the programme presented but on the basis of its performance. i can only suggest that you apply the same principle to the hungarian media law, which has been in force for weeks. i'll be happy to send you german-language extracts from hungarian newspapers, and you'll see that cohn-bendit's fiery speeches are innocent baby voices compared to what the hungarian newspapers write. so much for objectivity. on the other hand, i would like to draw the attention of media law critics to the fact that we live in the 21st century. so how do you think that in hungary or any other country in europe, anyone would be able to suppress freedom of opinion in the internet age? in the hungarian election campaign, we won the election largely through the uncontrolled internet and facebook. how do you think it's possible to restrict the free flow of opinion in the 21st century? i'm amazed at how you people live in the past. i would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the media law you are objecting to has repealed the press law adopted in the communist regime in 1986, which until now allowed newspapers to be deleted from the register by deleting them. this has never been challenged in the last 20 years, although it was very undemocratic. so i suggest that in this media law debate, we return to the soil of common sense and reasonable argument. i would also like to inform you that, contrary to some of the opinions expressed here, the rebuilding of the rule of law is underway in hungary, my fellow members of parliament! i would like to point out that although you have not discussed this in recent years, in hungary in recent years the secret services have been used for political purposes, for which court proceedings are now underway. in hungary, the police were deployed against a peaceful crowd, which is now the subject of criminal proceedings. in hungary, the public interest information was falsified, and that's what our economy is now. the rule of law is being strengthened in hungary today. a policy of subversion of the rule of law, which you have never objected to for any reason. unfortunately, i have to conclude from listening to the debate on the media law that the problem for you is not really the media law, but the fact that in hungary the hungarian people have created an unprecedented unity in europe and have given a two-thirds majority to a political force. this is an exciting and interesting question, no doubt, and i am convinced that it can be used to the benefit of europe. since mr. lambsdorff has made a personal remark, allow me to respond to that. mr. lambsdorff, i speak to you as a european to a european, as a hungarian to a german. your media law is not an iota more democratic than the new hungarian media law, and if you doubt that, please do so in an objective debate. and i will not accept from the germans or anyone else that just because we lived under a dictatorship for 40 years, anyone now questions the democratic commitment of the hungarian people. the media law can and should be criticized, of course, and i take that for granted, but you can't insult a nation. and i want to make it clear that questioning the democratic commitment of the hungarian people and the hungarian government, violating the hungarian people... (cheering and applause) and let me refer to the comment that accused hungary of moving towards dictatorship. i heard it with my own ears. what are they protesting? i heard it with my own ears! they threatened to move hungary towards dictatorship. what is this if not an insult to the hungarian people? and i have to tell you, i will always protect my country and hungary. this is not a matter of media law! as far as european affairs are concerned, if i may, i'll put this hat on my head. i consider the question of the bond market, raised by mr verhofstadt, the leader of the group of the european people's party, to be an important one and i would like to say that the hungarian presidency sees the development of the bond market as necessary and inevitable in the long term. that is why we support the european policies that are moving hungary, the member states of the european union within the euro, the entire european union, forward. the only thing i would like to call your attention to is to convince our own governments, the national governments, that the creation of the eurobond market cannot be used to save on structural reforms. so we have to do structural reform first, and then i think the introduction of the bond market becomes a possibility. as regards tunisia, i would like to point out that we are in constant contact with the foreign affairs committee and that we support all democratic movements and aspirations outside europe, and we will make this clear with the foreign affairs committee. at the same time, this question cannot be contrasted with the worldwide examples of christian persecution. both are necessary. ladies and gentlemen, finally, there were several comments expressing concern that the hungarian presidency had got off to a rocky start, and that this could be detrimental to our presidency of the european union. i want to tell you that it's up to you. we, for our part, and i personally, are prepared to monitor and keep alive the debate on both fronts during the hungarian presidency. so if you think that during the hungarian presidency you want to discuss hungary and also the policy of the european union, then i would like to say that we are ready for that. and we don't consider this situation to be uncomfortable in the least. we're not happy, of course. we are not happy that critical opinions towards hungary are mixed with european political issues, but we do not consider the situation unnatural. europe is a democracy, we have democratic debates. i never thought the hungarian presidency would be a simple triumph, like a beauty contest, where the models step out and everyone applauds. i never thought of that! i'm aware that we're going to have some serious political discussions. i am ready to do so, whatever the subject may be, and i would like to assure you that hungary and the hungarian presidency have the strength to carry through the debate on hungary and on the boring european issues with the necessary weight and force, and that no attack on domestic politics or on hungarian affairs will deter us from completing our european union programme and priorities and having a successful presidency. my goal is to turn what promises to be the most difficult semester in the european union into one of the most successful semesters in the european union. thank you for your kind attention.
according to the rules of procedure, there may be a personal statement at the end of the debate. that's the kind of personal statement that president schulz made. (screams of discontent) ladies and gentlemen, we are following the rules of procedure that we have agreed upon.
thank you, mr schulz. prime minister, thank you for your speech and for your presence. mr cohn-bendit, do you wish to make a personal statement as well?
mr cohn-bendit, it must be a personal statement.
ladies and gentlemen, prime minister orbán did indeed address president schulz directly - and he did - with the caveat that this might offend the hungarian people. those are his words. the issues that were raised in this courtroom have been clarified. let's keep the dignity of the room. it was a very important presentation for the hungarian presidency. we have accepted the programme of the hungarian presidency, we have accepted it, we have heard very positive voices about what the hungarians will do in the next six months. this is very important to all of us. let's accept that once again and calmly walk away from this debate, because it was a very serious debate. i have, in accordance with the rules of procedure, given the floor to those persons who have asked for a personal statement. i would like to thank prime minister orbán for his speech, for his participation in our session, for presenting the programme of the hungarian presidency. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. in 2011, we will be working on a number of important issues, such as the consumer rights directive, financial services law, intellectual property law and the preparation of the future financial perspective for 2014-2020. with this in mind, i hope that the successive hungarian and polish presidencies will contribute to the implementation of these concrete projects, translating our long-standing friendship into fruitful cooperation within the eu. unfortunately, the beginning of the hungarian presidency was decidedly marred and dominated by the country's controversial new media law. after a letter to brussels from a large group of european intellectuals, the eu institutions could not help but raise the issue. the information available so far indicates that certain provisions of hungarian law, such as the manner of appointing and dismissing the authorities of the national media and telecommunications authority, as well as the scope of this authority's competence, may raise doubts as to the independence of the media in hungary. the sharp reaction of my socialist and democratic group is not a criticism of the hungarian people, but of the country holding the eu presidency. it's an emergency. it is in the interest of both hungary and the eu as a whole that this be clarified quickly and that the focus be primarily on urgent issues facing the union as a whole.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i fully support the priorities of the hungarian presidency because of their pro-european character and their alignment with the interests of the eu as a whole. i am the representative of the country that will be the next to assume the presidency and i wish to declare our close cooperation with the hungarian presidency. good cooperation will allow a smooth transition to the polish-cypriot-danish trio. i particularly welcome hungary's declaration of commitment to the development of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy. i also welcome the fact that eu enlargement is one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency. the closeness of hungary's and poland's positions on eu enlargement should help to ensure continuity of this issue during the polish presidency. i hope that the eastern partnership summit in may will not only be a summary of the two-year period of implementation of this initiative, but that it will bring concrete results in the areas of visa-free travel, trade and energy. poland, like the hungarian presidency, recognises the need for a common approach to freedom and justice by strengthening the protection of personal data, promoting citizens' rights and common values across the eu. the sustainable use of resources, as one of the priorities, is a continuation of the approaches of the previous presidencies (spanish, belgian) and reflects the commission's strong activity in this area. it is essential to take account of the different circumstances and capacities of the member states in the framework of the planned activities.
in writing. sport is one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency. this is very important news for the sporting community and, above all, for the millions of europeans who are engaged in sport and recreational physical activity at a basic level. despite the new legal framework, progress in creating better conditions for the financing of sporting ventures in europe is weak. amateur sports are being ignored in public debate, social research. the role of amateur sport in health prevention and in improving the conditions and quality of life of europeans is underestimated. the benefits of regular movement should be considered in four dimensions: health, social, economic and political. amateur sport achieves many policy objectives, including health and cultural promotion, education, social inclusion, combating discrimination, reducing crime, and combating drug addiction. exercise also means lower health care costs. i therefore draw the attention of the hungarian presidency to the written declaration no 62 adopted by the european parliament on support for sport at primary level, of which i am a co-author. the declaration shows our commitment to sport and to improving the quality of life of europeans. the declaration calls for the necessary attention to be paid to grassroots sport in sport communication and for sufficient funding to be provided for the eu's sport programme. the commission will continue to support the development of the european sporting heritage and will continue to support the development of sport in europe.
in writing. the motto of the presidency is strong europe. the crisis and the decisions taken so far at member state level have shown that we need more europe, not less, to meet the challenges of today. the priority should be to combat the crisis, to overcome the public debt problem of the member states and to continue the work of safeguarding the stability of the euro area and strengthening economic governance. the hungarian presidency is focusing on the human factor - above all on employment growth. europe is striving for sustainable growth, which must be delivered through job creation and social inclusion. in view of the need to increase the security of gas supply, we should take action as soon as possible to establish a common energy policy. it is good that the work programme also includes a regional dimension. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of environmental protection. the schengen area is also planned to be extended to include romania and bulgaria. this is a very important issue, because all member states should have the same rights. there is also talk of concluding accession negotiations with croatia during the presidency. a responsible enlargement policy should bring stability, peace and cohesion to the european continent. the belgian presidency's activities were centred on europe in the full sense of the word. this does not mean that the national approach likely to be adopted by hungary is incompatible or even opposed to the community approach.
in writing. a strong europe, the establishment of effective economic governance in the eu, and closer ties with the union's neighbours are the priorities on which we want to support the hungarian presidency, which, as is particularly important to us, is committed to a close partnership with the european parliament. as a member of parliament with responsibility for institutional affairs and as the representative of the country which will take over the reins of the european union from you, i would like to stress one more point. the hungarian presidency is extremely important, not only because of the priorities that coincide with poland's, but also because it is still an interim presidency. the lisbon treaty has weakened the role of the presidency, but that role is not yet determined, and this is the last chance to do so. the range of instruments that will then be in the hands of the poles will depend on the place you manage to obtain in the institutional set-up of the union. i shall be watching your work with all the more interest.
madam president! i voted in favour of the directive presented by mrs grossetête, so that after long negotiations the principles of crossborder treatment in the european union can finally be put into practice. i regard the directive as a good compromise in its present form, based mainly on the rights of the patient, but also safeguarding the interests of the national health funds of the member states. for citizens of countries such as poland, the possibility of receiving treatment abroad equalises access to modern healthcare. overcrowded hospitals, long queues, waiting lists for some major procedures often leave patients without access to timely, appropriate health care. in some cases, time plays a huge role. the directive will allow citizens to decide for themselves whether to wait for treatment in their own country for many months or to choose another place of treatment. knowing that a treatment in another eu country will also be reimbursed, if only in large part, and sometimes even in full, will make it easier for them to decide on the treatment. the simplification of treatment rules abroad can of course also be seen as triggering market forces in general access to medical services. these solutions will therefore, in my view, contribute to increasing competitiveness in healthcare and, therefore, also have a significant impact on accelerating the growth of these services.
madam president! european society is becoming increasingly mobile. we study, work, rest and travel outside our own country. citizens living in the community should have the right to free emergency medical care wherever they are in europe. it is clear that instruments should be put in place to prevent so-called health tourism, making it easier for patients in need to take advantage of new opportunities. first of all, i'm talking about the treatment of unusual rare diseases in specialized centers, sometimes outside the country where the patient lives. but we cannot allow interference in the form of health policy pursued by the member states. this is their internal competence and they are free to do so. this directive is moving in that direction. of course i voted yes.
madam president! i would like to make a further statement on serbia. the agreement between the european union and serbia, voted on today, is a milestone on the road to serbia's association with the european structures. twelve member states have already ratified the treaty, which is intended to open the door to serbian membership of the european union. while expressing my full support for the agreement, i would like to call on the other member states to ratify it as soon as possible. of course, serbia's integration into european structures requires full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia on war crimes, as well as maintaining dialogue on kosovo and taking all measures against discrimination against the roma population. however, i welcome and support all efforts to expand democracy and increase human rights protection in serbia, leading to political, economic and social stability in that country.
madam president! alzheimer's is one of the diseases for which mankind still has no cure. the medical services data show a frightening increase in the number of cases diagnosed, and the trend of an ageing europe has drastic consequences for the near future. dementia affects not only the person but also his or her family, who often have to sacrifice their own lives to care for their loved ones. we urgently need these kinds of reports that identify the problem and suggest initiatives to improve the quality of our health and lives. the joint efforts of the community countries, the creation of programmes of prevention and social support for whole families are, of course, projects worthy of all the support. we need to do everything we can to help those who are suffering and to minimize the number of future cases.
in writing. − the crossborder healthcare directive is a very important new legal instrument that can significantly improve the situation of patients in the european union. today, patients who want to receive medical care in a country other than their own face many administrative and financial obstacles. as a result, only the wealthiest can afford the luxury of treatment abroad. in response to these problems, the draft directive envisages the greatest possible simplification of administrative procedures, for example by reducing the obligation for prior authorisation of treatment by the national health authority, and by ensuring better exchange of information on medical services in other countries through the creation of national contact points. this is not, as some claim, about promoting 'health tourism', but about ensuring the right to a certain and high quality of care when it is needed. i also believe that in the long term the directive can help to level the playing field in healthcare across the eu. when we consider the draft directive, we must have the patient's welfare at the forefront. the role of legislators is to adopt legislation that will minimise the formalities associated with access to a doctor and allow sick citizens a wide choice of medical services. i therefore strongly support the draft directive on crossborder healthcare services and hope that the negotiations, which have been going on for seven years, will result in an agreement with the council.
in writing. − the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare is an important step towards removing the barriers that patients in eu member states have faced up to now. it is primarily intended to make it easier for europeans to access healthcare in another eu member state, in particular in terms of access to services that are difficult to access in their own country. this is particularly good news for people living in border regions, especially those suffering from rare diseases and requiring specialist treatment not available in their country. i am also pleased to see a number of provisions ensuring that patients are able to accept reciprocal prescriptions, that they no longer need to take out additional insurance abroad and that they have access to medical records. the idea of setting up national focal points to inform patients of their rights is also relevant. patients should be fully informed about the procedures for accessing treatment abroad and for reimbursing the cost of such treatment (at the prices applicable in the country where the patient is insured). i believe that the solutions developed will facilitate access to safe and high quality healthcare for patients throughout the european union.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i voted in favour of mrs grossetête's report for a number of important reasons. the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare has many advantages. it removes barriers to treatment, ensures equal access to healthcare for all across the union, puts an end to discrimination against patients, introduces mutual recognition of prescriptions, reduces waiting times for doctor visits and eliminates the need for additional insurance abroad. the additional value of the directive is that it introduces broad access to medical care for people suffering from rare diseases and higher reimbursements for people with disabilities. the directive is opposed to medical tourism in that reimbursement of treatment costs will be made up to the level guaranteed in the country of insurance, if the amount is lower than the guaranteed level, only the costs actually incurred will be reimbursed. a lot of discussion has been about what's called authorization. the prior consent of the nfz will only be required for hospital treatment and expensive medical procedures. all other forms of treatment will not require prior authorisation from the nfz, provided they are covered by the so-called 'guaranteed benefits basket'. if a member state does not allow patients to receive specialised treatment at national level, the directive does not create any new right for patients to receive such treatment abroad and to receive reimbursement. an important exception is the case of people with rare diseases.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i consider the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare to be a success and that is why i voted in favour of its provisions. health is the most precious possession we have. i want europeans to have access to the highest quality medicine. the directive gives patients a chance and hope, and it forces further reforms of health care systems. the directive opens up european hospitals and clinics to polish patients, among others. it is a confirmation that europe is being built, that our priority is to improve and promote cooperation in health between eu member states.
in writing. − on 19 january 2011, the european parliament adopted a directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, which aims to simplify the rules on treatment abroad. i am pleased to note that the european parliament, as a co-legislator, has played a key role in shaping clear and patient-friendly rules on, among other things, reimbursement of medical care in another country. the rules on crossborder healthcare are all the more important as they concern every citizen of the european union. the new directive guarantees the mutual recognition of prescriptions, facilitates access to information on treatment abroad, and increases treatment coverage for people with rare diseases and the possibility for disabled people to receive higher reimbursement for medical care. the european parliament is also involved in setting up national contact points in each member state to provide information on treatment abroad. these points will be in close contact with each other. finally, i would say that the directive adopted is very necessary because the current legislation on medical treatment abroad is unclear and complex, and simplifying these matters is very important from the point of view of every member of the european union.
in writing. − the directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare is a very important document for citizens of the european union, and i have followed its development with all the more attention. i am pleased to see that the directive leaves patients the right to choose where to receive healthcare, thus strengthening the common market, which is the main theme of my work in the european parliament, and adapting to the freedom to travel and work in the countries of the european union. this health schengen will include such issues as mutual recognition of prescriptions, the end of discrimination against patients on the basis of their country of origin and the abolition of the need to have supplementary insurance abroad. another very important issue from the point of view of the common market is the issue of counterfeit medicines and medical products. the directive stresses that they are a serious problem, especially in the context of crossborder healthcare, as well as medical tourism. the directive combats this by providing for reimbursement of treatment costs up to the level guaranteed in the country of origin or, if this amount is lower than the cost of treatment/treatment, reimbursement of the costs actually incurred. the solutions put in place will help improve the situation of patients in the european union and strengthen the common market, which is why i voted in favour of the directive.
in writing. - once again, i would like to remind the european parliament of the importance of forests for the climate, water management, agriculture and culture of a country or region, especially in rural areas. however, wood products are of considerable market importance. we therefore need to be absolutely certain that timber originating in cameroon, congo or any other third country has been legally sourced, transported and marketed in compliance with the needs of the community and forest management law. the partnership with these countries will result in improved forest management, increased credibility and international competitiveness of exporting countries.
in writing. − the pacific states region is a very specific area, composed mainly of island countries, largely ethnically diverse, with a culture that is very different from that of europe and that requires different political and economic priorities. by concluding agreements with these countries, we want to allow the free movement of goods and services, which should bring commercial benefits to both sides. however, we must also ensure that we are not seen as intruders in seeking to liberalise the market, seeking to secure access to resources for ourselves, and weakening, as critics say, regional solidarity. let us make deals, open markets, promote competition, but with common sense and always for mutual benefit, helping especially regions such as the pacific area of states that often suffer from natural disasters.
in writing. − in the interests of the child, intercountry adoption should be allowed, but only if the possibilities of adoption in a member state have been exhausted. as a rule, a child should be raised in the country of which he is a citizen. foreign adoptions happen in my country, poland, too. these are usually children who, due to various illnesses, have no chance of being adopted in the country. for example, in 2006, 202 foreign families decided to take in 311 of our compatriots. 214 children from poland found italian parents, 25 french, 22 american, 20 dutch, 15 swedish, 7 german, 6 swiss, 1 belgian and 1 canadian. in western europe, the problem of orphaned children is virtually non-existent, hence the great interest in the possibility of adoption in central and eastern european countries. i believe that the european commission should first of all: 1) inform parliament of the measures that have been or will be taken at european level to protect intercountry adoption from child trafficking; 2) respond to how the commission intends to counter 'fashion' adoption. europeans are increasingly adopting children from africa because of the popularity of the practice among movie stars. however, this is neither a sufficient nor a serious basis for surrogacy.
in writing. − i welcome the results of today's vote on the draft council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. serbia has made significant progress in its cooperation with the european union since 2007, which has enabled the community to resume negotiations. the negotiations were concluded on 10 september 2007 and, after consultation with the eu member states, the stabilisation and association agreement was initialled in brussels on 7 november 2007. however, we must remember that full cooperation is conditional on serbia fulfilling the political condition set by the council when adopting the negotiating directives full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia.
in writing. - dear colleagues! one of the most effective ways to inform the public about the occurrence of dementia in older people is to raise awareness and to actively campaign for awareness. alzheimer's disease needs special attention because it is becoming a growing problem not only in the eu but also worldwide, and we know from the experts that the number is increasing all the time. we are an ageing society, we must talk about it openly, we must find solutions to the problem and above all we must stress the importance of prevention in this area, which is why i voted in favour of the report by mrs marisa matias on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
in writing. − i supported the report on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias. the issues of older people have recently been the subject of parliament's deliberations in the context of the economic crisis, labour market needs and increasing labour force participation. the dementia statistics show the magnitude of the problem. each year, 1.4 million people in europe develop dementia, and the number of people affected is estimated at 10 million. in poland, more than 200,000 people suffer from alzheimer's disease. neurodegenerative diseases are one of the main causes of disability among older people. the problem has become more acute with the increase in life expectancy. alzheimer's disease is a major economic challenge for entire societies. the world alzheimer's report, published in 2010, estimates that the global cost of alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia is $600 billion annually. a common european strategy to combat dementia is needed. we need to develop and promote prevention of alzheimer's disease, which is healthy lifestyle, physical, mental and social activity, healthy diet. carers of sick people should be provided with adequate financial and psychological support. the european alzheimer's strategy should take particular account of the needs of women, who are twice as likely to develop dementia and who are the majority of carers.
in writing. − during this plenary session we voted on the european parliament resolution on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other dementias. i voted for this resolution because it is a very important step towards making detailed proposals to combine existing policies and ways of dealing with these kinds of diseases. currently, neurodegenerative diseases are one of the main causes of disability among older people, and the number of people affected by these diseases is likely to increase significantly. this is all the more significant when we consider the increase in life expectancy and the decline in the proportion of people in employment to those retiring. in view of the above, it is essential to place prevention at the heart of all strategies and to focus efforts on achieving early detection. as a representative of society, i feel partly responsible for the eu's engagement in this issue.
in writing. − on 12 january, we marked the first anniversary of the tragic earthquake in haiti, which killed 222,750 people and forced some 1.7 million people to flee their homes. in the wake of these tragic events, the european parliament adopted a resolution on 19 january describing the situation on the island one year after the disaster. despite the efforts of numerous international organisations and international aid to rebuild the country, the situation in haiti remains volatile and the country is in crisis. ten months after the earthquake, the island has been battling a cholera epidemic, and the validity of presidential and parliamentary elections is being questioned by international observers. parliament called on the eu and the international community to show solidarity with the island and to cooperate more closely with the haitian authorities, given the current situation in the country, and stressed that any reconstruction measures should be taken in consultation with the people of the country. the european parliament also stresses the importance of the form in which aid to haiti should be provided, namely in the form of donations and not in the form of loans, which would lead to debt. finally, i would like to express my solidarity with haiti and hope that the reconstruction work in the country will be speeded up.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of christians in the context of freedom of religion. i would like to ask vice-president/high representative catherine ashton to take the floor.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i shall begin by expressing how fully i share the concerns of this house about the recent violence against people belonging to religious minorities, as well as those who stand up for religious freedom. i expressed my views on this issue most recently on 6 january when i visited bethlehem and the church of the nativity on the eve of the orthodox christmas. i went there to underline the need for all religious groups around the world to be able to gather and to worship freely. i also stressed that the european union condemns all forms of intolerance and violence against people because of their religion, wherever it takes place. i have also strongly condemned the recent terrorist attacks in iraq and egypt targeting places of worship, as well as the assassination of salmaan taseer, the governor of the punjab in pakistan. these attacks are unacceptable: they are perpetrated by extremists with an agenda of intolerance which must be condemned and must be resisted. honourable members, all too often in today’s world, people’s human rights are violated because of their religion or belief. the victims do not belong to a single faith or to one region. regrettably, no part of the world is spared from the scourge of religious intolerance. any discrimination or violence against individuals because of their religious beliefs runs counter to the values that we in the european union uphold. each violation must be taken seriously and each must be condemned with equal force wherever it takes place and whoever the victim may be, because, as we know and accept, human rights are universal. long-established christian communities in the middle east face difficulties which have led to significant displacement in some countries and to a dwindling of numbers in the region as a whole. the european union will not turn a blind eye to their plight. we consider their demand to have their rights respected as citizens of their own country to be entirely legitimate. freedom of conscience and of belief belongs to everyone and every state has the duty to ensure it is respected. the eu stands ready to enhance its cooperation with governments in order to combat intolerance and protect human rights. we must not fall into the trap that extremists and terrorists are laying for us: we must resist the manipulation of religion into a source of division. the best response to extremism is a united international front based on the universal standards of freedom of religion and freedom of belief. the european union was a driving force in the un general assembly behind the resolution on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief – which was adopted by consensus in december 2010. we make a concerted effort every year to build on that consensus, so that the international community can send a firm and united message. we are considering another initiative to rally strong cross-regional support on this theme at the forthcoming session of the un human rights council in march. we also raise the issue of freedom of religion or belief during our human rights dialogues and urge countries to eradicate discrimination and intolerance. our delegations closely monitor these issues around the world, and the european union’s next annual human rights report this spring will address the situation of religious minorities around the world. honourable members, i am fully committed to keeping freedom of religion or belief at the top of our agenda. the next foreign affairs council on 31 january will again address this issue so that the european union can step up its efforts to promote religious freedom.
baroness ashton, i am very pleased to welcome you to the european parliament in the new year. it is not very often that we can discuss with you personally such important issues of the foreign policy of the european union, so thank you very much for coming here.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. your highness! i would like to start by thanking the high representative of the union for foreign affairs for her very quick response to what happened in alexandria. it's very important that we respond quickly and predictably, because then the world listens to us more. christians are certainly the most forgotten minority in the world today. legal discrimination, beatings, even murder, affects 170,000 christians around the world every year. all who recognize human rights must take an active role in defending religious freedom. the issue of religious freedom has to be raised with countries like afghanistan, iraq, sudan in the development aid. china, india, vietnam, they need to hear about religious freedom in trade negotiations with the european union. we must intensify our neighbourhood policy towards countries like egypt. after all, our diplomacy must respond to any situation where the right to religious freedom is violated. so we have the tools in our hands, and we just have to use them, and we have to convince the world that after years of silence, christian freedom really matters to us. the only way the world will listen to us is if it gets the impression that this case is really important to us. otherwise we cannot expect our policy in this area to succeed.
mr. chairman, please! at least 75 percent of all religious persecution worldwide is directed against christians. the european union cannot be passive on this issue. the european union cannot stand by and watch. today's debate is not only a reminder to europe to get involved in the fight to uphold the right to religious freedom in the world, but also a way for us all to think together about what instruments the european union can use to prevent this persecution, the persecution of christians, in the future. what can we do? firstly, i think we should make the issue of respect for religious freedom one of the most important in the european union's external policy. the point is that when we sign agreements with different countries, we should make sure that we have a clause that prevents religious persecution in those countries. secondly, we should consider establishing a monitoring centre for religious persecution in the world, a european centre, which would provide rapid information on this subject, which would also allow the european union to react quickly. and finally, thirdly, we should end the policy of double standards. the european union, europe, is opening up to immigrants from all over the world. we let them build their temples, we let them practice their religion. at the same time, we seldom think about the rights of christians in these very countries, where the possession of a bible often leads to years in prison and sometimes even death, and where it is difficult to build a christian temple because it is simply impossible. today, it is time to speak out firmly, decisively, and decisively for the rights of christians in the world. today is the time for us to speak out for the freedom of christians, for the freedom of people of other religions to practice their religion.
mr. chairman, please! according to religious-persecution monitoring organizations, over 200 million christians face persecution every day. in the last two years, it's hard to believe, over 170,000 people have been killed just because they were christians. that is according to data from organizations that monitor the persecution of christians. these figures put christians at the forefront of religious persecution and we should remember this fact in parliament. the situation is particularly tense in much of the islamic world, where christians are treated as second-class citizens. europe, not only because of its christian roots, cannot tolerate any longer the killing of innocent people simply because they are members of one religion or another. the european community has not responded strongly enough to attacks and discrimination against christians. the issue of the persecution of christians must become an argument in the negotiations and relations between the european community and the countries where this tragic and terrible event is taking place. parliament should also oblige mrs catherine ashton to take more active and decisive action.
mr. chairman, please! the european identity has always been defined by christianity. it is the foundation of the european union's values. the union cannot therefore stand by and watch the persecution of christians, including in other parts of the world. in arab and asian countries, christians are the most endangered religious minority, as evidenced by recent attacks on christians in egypt and iraq, and earlier in india. young children are also killed. we have a lot of instruments to prevent and stigmatize these kinds of cases. the european union must condemn in the strongest possible terms the attacks on christians. one of the most effective measures would be to make the conclusion of agreements by the union, for example trade agreements, with third countries conditional on those countries guaranteeing respect for the rights of christians and the possibility of terminating the agreement in the event of a breach of those rights.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! something very bad is happening with respect to the rights of christians to practice their religion. the european parliament has already had to respond to human rights violations against christians on a number of occasions in the past year. i co-authored three resolutions in this area on iraq: on the death penalty (in particular the case of tariq aziz) and attacks on christian communities (24.11.2010), on recent attacks on christian communities (20.01.2010), and on freedom of religion in pakistan (19.05.2010). this year's events in alexandria reminded me that a year ago the european parliament called on the egyptian government to guarantee the coptic christians and members of other communities and religious minorities the enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms - including the right to freely choose and change their religion - and to prevent any discrimination against them. meanwhile, tomorrow we will discuss again the freedom of christians in pakistan. the statistical method is not perfect, but sometimes it allows a better estimation of the scale of the phenomenon. in the case of violation of the rights of christians, an interesting calculation was made by the journalists of deutsche welle. on average, every 3 minutes a christian martyr is killed in the world because of his beliefs. it's really shocking that something like this is literally happening right in front of our eyes.
in writing. as europeans, we want to ensure that all people on our continent are free to practice the religion that is closest to their hearts and consciences. we also regulate the law in such a way as to protect citizens from discrimination on the grounds of religion. we teach tolerance and equality in our schools, and we allow immigrants to use their religious symbols freely. and we happen to do this at the expense of the religion that has the most followers in europe. and it is from christianity that our tradition and civilization derive the most, and christians are also the most numerous among us. i also say this as a representative of the political group called christian democracy. we have no control over how christians are treated in many countries around the world. but we can, and we should, guarantee freedom of religion to all europeans.
in writing. today, christians are persecuted in over 70 countries around the world. this means that in every 3 countries, the basic human right to religious freedom is violated. the european union has come to realise that religious persecution is a serious violation of human dignity and freedom. the debate on religious freedom and the situation of christians, which has been going on for several months in the european parliament, is also important for formal reasons, as the lisbon treaty has given the churches a stronger position in the european debate and the right to be an official partner in the dialogue with the european commission. the european parliament, which is the guardian of human rights, should as soon as possible develop ways of defending religious freedom in the world. in view of the recent violence against christian minorities in some countries in the middle east, africa and asia, i believe that it would be good to raise this issue at the next eu foreign affairs council and work together with the high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on concrete instruments to protect the christian community. the european parliament should call on persecuted countries to take effective measures to protect religious minorities despite the difficulties. it is therefore necessary to start taking the issue of religious freedom seriously when the eu signs cooperation agreements with third countries.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs ashton, on the situation in belarus.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, the events which followed the elections in belarus on 19 december have come as a shock to all of us: the force used by the authorities against their citizens prompted statements of concern and condemnation across the world. my colleagues and i have met with many of those affected, among the opposition movement, civil society, the families of those imprisoned and the population at large. we have had the opportunity to express our sympathy and solidarity and to listen. however, honourable members, the time has come to act. i greatly appreciate the fact that members of this parliament have already been able to contribute to our reflections on this issue and that my colleague, commissioner füle, was able to present our current thinking to the afet committee last week. i am looking forward to studying the eu resolution which emerges from your debates. it is important for all of us to be as focused as possible in our thinking, given the urgency of the situation that we are addressing. i have spent time with a number of representatives of the opposition and the wider public in belarus, including, as i have mentioned, relatives of those detained. i have also met foreign minister martynov. these conversations have left me in no doubt that the events we witnessed were an affront to our vision of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy. not only was there unwarranted use of force, but the electoral process as a whole was also clearly undermined by the detention of civil society and opposition representatives. the assessment by the osce-odihr supports this conclusion. many of those detained in the last few weeks have been released. however, a significant group – as many as 30 people – still face charges that could lead to very substantial prison sentences and, as honourable members know, that group includes some presidential candidates. mr president, i have already condemned the repressive measures taken by the authorities in minsk and i have called for the immediate release of all those detained on political grounds, as well as the reopening of the osce office in minsk. i have reinforced this message in a joint statement with us secretary of state hillary clinton. in my meeting with foreign minister martynov, i emphasised that the eu expects an immediate response from the belarusian authorities to the demands of the international community. in determining the next steps we take, we need to start from basic principles. the first of these principles is that the security and safety of peaceful activists, including presidential candidates, must be at the forefront of our minds at all times. the second is that belarusians are our neighbours and partners, and their interests should be paramount. while we express our concern to the authorities, we cannot isolate the people. the third principle is that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is at the core of eu foreign policy and of the eastern partnership and is part of a set of common values which we share with our closest partners. we will work with those partners, as we have done with the united states, to maximise the strength of the message sent to belarus by the international community. mr president, our assessment leads to a clear conclusion: that we should use our channels to convey a firm and prompt reaction. that reaction should give the authorities in belarus a clear signal of our views, without isolating citizens and civil society. our reaction should be a balanced one. on the one hand, we have to consider targeted measures against the belarusian authorities and, i believe, to conduct a review of sanctions. on the other hand, we need to have an intensified dialogue with, and to support, civil society and citizens – and in practical terms that means continuing our assistance to ngos, the media and students, and perhaps an increased effort to enhance mobility for citizens who wish to travel to the european union. in the short term, reintroducing a travel ban for president lukashenko, and extending that ban to further named individuals, is certainly an option if detainees are not released. with regard to intensified support for civil society, i have asked the external action service, in cooperation with the commission, to prepare options for urgent measures focusing on ngos, media and students. i know that the european parliament has scope to provide scholarships for students expelled from university and i hope, mr president, that this facility can be exploited. of course we shall be trying to leverage additional resources from elsewhere, including member states. i mentioned earlier the issue of mobility and i am thinking in particular of visa facilitation: i want to encourage member states’ consulates in minsk to facilitate the delivery of visas as an ad hoc measure in the interests of belarusian citizens. mr president, the short-term measures i have just described will, of course, have to be considered by the foreign affairs council on 31 january but it is not too early to reflect on some longer-term aspects of our relations with belarus. firstly, i said earlier that we need to work with other international partners on this issue and that is one reason why belarus should continue to participate in the multilateral track that we have available, and why we need to engage strongly with our eastern partnership countries to build a consensus on this issue. secondly, as far as bilateral financial assistance from the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) is concerned, we should place a stronger focus on the needs of the population and on civil society. finally, last year we drew up a joint interim plan, mapping out the development of our relations with belarus in the medium term. i believe we need to pause in this process. that does not mean abandoning the joint interim plan, but we need further consultation, including with civil society, and a review if necessary. mr president, this is the framework within which we are currently working. i am now very interested to hear the views of members of parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the international observers had no doubts, and we should not have any doubts. the last presidential election in belarus in december was not fair. they were not fair, and therefore the policy we have been pursuing with the belarusian authorities since 2008, the policy of dialogue and the outstretched hand towards belarus, cannot be continued any longer. this is not the time for business as usual, this is the time for new decisions, new policies, firmness against the belarusian regime, including sanctions, both political and visa, not excluding economic sanctions. these sanctions should of course be smart, targeted so as not to make the lives of ordinary belarusians worse, but we should not hesitate to impose them, including the suspension of belarus' membership of the eastern partnership. because we were dealing with a fraudulent election, the results of this election are unreliable. we can therefore say with full confidence and calm that the moral winner of these elections is the belarusian democratic opposition. therefore, we should support this opposition in their efforts to create a political representation here in brussels that would represent the interests of this environment, but also of all free belarus towards the european union and the member states in the political forum. finally, we should call for the release of those who have been detained, whether presidential candidates, political activists, independent journalists, students and academics. they all need to be released before we can proceed with any further talks with representatives of the belarusian state.
mr. chairman, please! i know i only have 30 seconds. maybe it was a mistranslation, but did i really hear that you consider the demonstration after the elections, that is, the demonstration that was really meant to protest against the rigging of these elections and all the irregularities that took place, as proof that these elections and the situation are improving? because that's the translation. it would be very difficult for me to accept that kind of translation.
perhaps there is a problem with the english interpretation. is there a problem with the english interpretation? please check it. no, it is not the interpretation. it is a problem with the microphone. is it ok now?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're talking about the situation in belarus, but let's hit each other on the chest. it's easy to accuse the lukashenka regime and it's right to accuse it and it's right to condemn it. but let's also strike our own european breasts. isn't it true that the visit of the italian prime minister mr. berlusconi was a certain credibility for this regime? isn't it true that the visit of lithuanian president grybauskaitė has given credibility to this regime? is it not true that the credibility of this regime, for which it was helpful, was given by the visits of the german foreign minister, mr westerwelle, and the polish foreign minister, mr sikorski? in fact, it was politicians from the member states of the european union who created the opportunity for lukashenka to make some political maneuvers without really asking for anything in return. today we must demand respect for human rights, and we must also strike at our own breasts.
mr. chairman, please! i'll start with the information for mrs. hautala. i hope she's wearing her headphones again. well, madam ambassador, this information about the "spring" or the "spring" organization should be supplemented by one more thing. i mean, besides the fact that they can't get their license, the police just took all their computers, and on monday - this is for you - i started organizing a collection of laptops in poland so i could send them to them. now, to the point, commissioner. i'll start with your statement: "time to act". that's right, you did. and the second very important thing you said: not to isolate belarusian society. that's what we should be doing. it really has to be these soft actions, which is building civil society, supporting the media, supporting students, lifting visas. we should support it, and especially put more money into it. but i also agree that there should be those more severe measures that mr jacek protasiewicz or mrs ojuland have proposed. there should be a link between the two.
mr president, i think that the diagnosis as designed and the therapy as planned are correct. the problem is not that we had so different a diagnosis and plan for therapy in the past but that we did so little. so perhaps we should ask ourselves whether we are sufficiently determined to do differently this time. we obviously should condemn and demand liberation, impose sanctions and consider suspension but, if we do not go beyond this verbal condemnation and moral support, there will be no fruit from this action. we need a long-term strategy and action and it will really be a test for the new foreign policy which lady ashton is now heading. it is not only about belarus. how we tackle the belarus question will determine the true political dynamics of the whole region: in moldova, in ukraine, also vis-à-vis russia and elsewhere. for the moment, geopolitically speaking, the course of events takes belarus away from europe, and europe is in retreat as it is in ukraine. obviously we are right to recommend the double-check approach: sanction and isolate the regime, open increased assistance to the society. i would say: let us replace the carrot-and-stick policies directed towards the regime so far with ‘stick to regime and carrot to society’. but to a much higher degree we should remember that our partner is society, not the regime. lady ashton said that we should continue helping. we should discontinue doing as little as we did in the past. did we do all that we should have done? no, it was ridiculously modest assistance and we have to change that.
mr. chairman, please! the policy pursued recently by some european governments towards belarus, including unfortunately the government of my country poland , has been a complete failure. lukashenko, the last dictator of europe, mocks us and, encouraged by our indolence, persecutes and imprisons his political opponents. the policy of appeasement and conciliation could not have worked. once again, it turned out that the pact with the dictatorship was understood in belarus as support for lukashenko, and the illusions ended in december with the brutal beating, beating and arrest of hundreds of opposition activists. the clear message we, the members of the european parliament, have to send to belarus is important. europe will not tolerate the suppression of freedom by the belarusian dictator. sanctions must be specific and target the regime's representatives, not the citizens. on the contrary, people need our help. so do civil society organizations, independent media and the opposition. we can really help with education or visa facilitation. the eastern partnership must either be suspended vis-à-vis belarus or sealed so that the regime cannot smell a single euro. the more europe in belarus, the faster the last dictator on our continent will fall.
mr. chairman, please! what happened in belarus on december 19 was a violation of democratic freedoms and liberties. the arrest of 700 people, including all the presidential candidates, requires no comment at all. and the election was unfair. this is a test for the union, but also for those countries with which the union has a privileged relationship, such as russia, which has recognised the election results. we must support the opposition and send a clear signal that the detainees should be released first, and then we can talk about anything in relations with belarus, and in particular with the government of this country. and restrictions must not be imposed on citizens. we need to ease the visa regime. poland did it. the unemployed should be helped, and students who have been expelled from university should be accepted in other countries. support requires an independent medium, such as both radio and television, bielsat. this is not just a task for lithuania and poland, but also for other member states, including the european institutions. i would like to make a very strong appeal to that.
mr. chairman, please! in the face of the increasing repression of the lukashenka regime, solidarity with the belarusian people is our duty. our assistance should be directed towards supporting independent media, including by enabling them to operate within the european union. a good example is the television station bielsat in poland. scholarships for students and students are also a good support, as a large number of young people are expelled from universities and schools for so-called opposition activities. the same goes for the issue of visas, which are simply too expensive for belarusians today. we need to change that fast. the citizens of belarus, with the exception of the regime's representatives, should be allowed to travel freely to the union. supporting civil society is absolutely paramount, and such a truly civil society will bring about change in belarus and ensure a better future for all of belarus.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i'd like to ask a very indiscreet question of the high representative. do you know what jerzy buzek was doing in the evening in 1982? or what janusz lewandowski was doing that night? or what donald tusk was doing tonight? well, they all turned on the radio and listened to radio free europe or voice of america or the bbc to find out the truth about what was happening in poland. or the important question, how could lech walesa survive, how could all the activists who were thrown out of their jobs by the communist regime in poland survive in the opposition? well, they all survived because the american union was sending in financial aid. those who listened to the radio listened to the radio because those radio stations were supported and funded. today, we have a responsibility to make sure that the truth reaches the belarusian people and that the belarusian opposition receives financial aid.
mr. chairman, please! for us, today is a moment of truth, of solidarity with belarus. as we know, this is the last dictatorship in europe and we should show full solidarity. as we know, the us resources for this purpose are limited and today this proposal that we would like to present is a very serious financial support program for both the opposition, the media, ngos, but above all the support of the young elite. i am talking here mainly about the hundreds, or even thousands of belarusian students who cannot study today, and i am making a very specific proposal to prepare a special erasmus programme, which is already in operation, aimed exclusively at belarusian students. we know we're making huge savings on this program. it doesn't take much to do, but the long-term effect of creating a modern, young future democratic state can be effective. and that's what i'm appealing to the commissioner.
mr. chairman, please! i'd love to hear that debate. i'd like to thank mr. eppink for his report. i am very pleased that he was the one who prepared this report. i'm happy to hear the other voices, but i have to share a comment. we focus here on the european commission's activities, blaming it for a lack of a strong position, policy or the fight against protectionism, but in fact our opponent or the biggest pain of what mr hökmark said, that the european economy is not competitive are the member states, and the european commission very often remains alone and exclusively acting under pressure from the member states to try to protect free competition as much as possible. in this chamber, a few weeks ago, we were discussing, among other things, specific rules for the coal market, and there were no voices of members who spoke of free competition, but there were voices of people who demanded protectionist rules, the possibility of paying for the mines that were being closed down, for example - that was the name - and in fact it was about helping the mines that will not be closed down at all. so we have to be consistent in our actions, and that consistency is often lacking in this room. we're talking about helping the banking sector. i am afraid that the european commission, acting under the pressure of the member states, has only sanctioned this aid. and today, when we talk about the 2009 report - i agree with the criticism here - i think there is a lack of elements to assess what effects this aid has had and whether it has really restructured the industry in a sustainable way. i expect, commissioner, that such elements of a great policy assessment should be included in this report. you also say in this report that you are fighting protectionism, for example when we talk about the car market, but there are examples - i come from poland - when the best plant within the fiat group was liquidated - maybe not liquidated, but production was limited - and production was moved to italy. this is blatant protectionism and the european commission should fight it. another example: in 2009 the polish shipyards were liquidated. i come from a shipyard town in poland, but the problem is bigger than two polish shipyards. the problem is that european competition policy forces the shipbuilding industry to compete on the world market, primarily with heavily subsidised middle eastern shipyards. and today we have de facto eliminated the shipbuilding industry in europe through competition policy, because we are making them compete with the subsidised industries. we should be concerned that the shipbuilding industry in europe exists. thank you very much and i apologize for the delay.
mr. chairman, please! the authors of the resolution rightly point out that the economic crisis has been a major challenge for eu competition policy. national and political interests have often prevailed not only over the rules of the free market but also over common sense. the great recession, which is still affecting european countries today, has largely shaped competition policy in 2009. this was the period of application of mechanisms and instruments whose main purpose was to help financial institutions in difficulty or some large companies, rather than to comply with the rules of a market economy. this behaviour was most damaging to small and medium-sized enterprises. will the tasks undertaken be effective in the long term? we'll have to see. the commission should therefore be invited to produce reliable analyses showing the impact of the aid measures on the economy. this will not only allow for an assessment of actions taken, but also allow for a rapid and effective response to similar threats in the future.
mr. chairman, please! the internal market should be free, efficient, dynamic and innovative. an appropriate competition policy is the right tool to achieve this. by having a well-functioning competition in the market for goods and services, we can guarantee better quality, lower prices and more choice for consumers. it is good that we have annual reviews of competition policy. this perspective is very instructive. the effective use of the competition policy instrument has helped to improve economic stability and to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis on businesses and consumers. competition in the pharmaceutical and energy markets should be improved. let's remember that monopoly, both private and state, restricts competition. it is worth noting that changes in the common agricultural policy have meant that subsidies and external support no longer restrict competitiveness.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the arctic is certainly changing. the most obvious consequences of these changes are the possibility of new transport and trade routes and the obvious prospects for the extraction of natural resources, oil and gas. the world's reaction to these changes can be chaotic. on the one hand, we have a very constructive agreement between russia and norway on the barents sea, and on the other hand, we have an attempt to pursue a policy of facts, also on the russian side. i think there's a huge role to be played here by the european union, by the international community. we encouraged that when we were working on this report. that was well stated in this report. the second point we have raised is the need to guarantee equal, non-discriminatory access to transport routes. neither regulatory nor financial considerations should be an obstacle to this equal access to the tracks. it's all very well stated in the report. we shall therefore be glad to support this report.
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to thank mr gahler for his very good draft report and for his fruitful work. the most important thing for me in working on this report was to reinforce the importance of research and monitoring of environmental change, which is crucial for political and economic decision-making. economic issues such as fisheries, transport and natural resources seem to be the main concerns of the european union. that's a shame, because it's undeniably the science that allows us to assess the environmental impact of economic change in this region. the impact is much greater than in other areas. what's that? only a specialist can judge that. unfortunately, the openness of arctic research is increasingly being constrained by the countries that have access to the arctic ocean. even in areas covered by international conventions and treaties, there has been a significant restriction on freedom of action and research in the last two or three years, often under the guise of environmental protection. climate and ocean processes in the arctic have a significant impact on climate and environmental change, so freedom of research is extremely important to understand what is happening not only there, but especially here. in addition, the work already done by scientists from non-arctic countries and the financial contributions made to these issues give us the right to speak out on the arctic.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i think that the document prepared deserves our support, and that is why i support it on behalf of my group. i would like to stress that the black sea synergy today requires a rethink. the good intentions have not always translated into effective use of the instrument in recent times, and it is good that the rapporteur is stressing this. that is why i think the most important task for commissioner füle today is to try to put our initiatives in this part of europe in order and to show that neighbourhood policy is the overriding issue and not to put other issues in that context. i think this way of thinking guarantees the efficiency of the black sea synergy in the future, especially in the energy sphere. synergy could also be a good instrument, for example, to support georgia in its democratic and economic transformations in recent years. but the first step, the necessary step today, is to put the initiatives in this part of europe in order, so that we can not only boast of them, but that they really serve a specific purpose.
madam president! when we talk about the black sea region, it has to be said that there is no other place around the european union where there are so many extreme differences, so many extreme conflicts, including bloody conflicts, and also conflicting interests. so let's not fool ourselves into thinking that by formulating any policy we can solve these issues that cannot be solved by using other policies. it's not a wish concert, it's not like you can solve energy problems when russia doesn't want a pipeline and we do. you can't solve regional conflicts, and it's actually a very limited policy, but it's still worth pursuing. if we are talking about synergy in relation to black sea policy, synergy means some added value. i would like to ask, for example, why the european parliament does not cooperate with existing organisations in the region, such as the parliamentary assembly for the black sea economic cooperation (pabsec). they want to work with us. the european parliament thinks it is too big, too serious and that it is not being engaged. i propose that we take this cooperation and work with those who are working.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the author of this report clearly points out that the so-called black sea synergy adopted in 2007 did not fully live up to its expectations. the enlargement of the union to include bulgaria and romania has put this region at the centre of our attention. with the situation in central and eastern europe stabilised, it seemed that the time had come for the community to focus on the black sea region. however, the global economic crisis has made this topic literally disappear from the european agenda. we must not forget that the community is not just the baltic or the mediterranean. of course, recent events in tunisia show that they also need our attention. but we have to start realizing that this is the black sea region, which is slowly becoming a very sensitive area from a european point of view. therein lies the solution to our energy problems; therein lies the transportation routes that are critical to our economy; therein lies the sources of instability that can be a major threat to us. for all these reasons, the rapporteur agrees that the time has come to develop a comprehensive union strategy for the black sea region. moreover, it seems that the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty may contribute to the effective implementation of such a plan. moreover, the establishment of a dedicated unit within the european external action service could solve most of the imperfections of the current black sea synergy.
in writing. the black sea synergy is another example of an untapped opportunity for relations with regions of geopolitical and strategic importance to its future. the adoption of the agreement identified the building of energy links between the black sea countries and the european union as one of the priorities. the nabucco pipeline is the main investment that will make this possible. unfortunately, we have seen brussels' lack of determination in this area for some time. neighboring countries interested in the project have mentioned this. for a year now, azerbaijan has been signalling the need for union action to contract gas from kazakhstan and tajikistan, without which the pipeline would not pay off. meanwhile, a rival project bypassing the caucasus states - russia's south stream pipeline - is quietly getting approval to build. we can't do this, the energy report records are insufficient. it should be specified by including information on the appropriations for investments of strategic importance for the future of the eu.
mr president, this is a very similar amendment to the one by justas paleckis. since the resolution is not only a political statement by parliament, but also offers moral support for those who are jailed, we would like to propose the inclusion in our resolution of the names of four former presidential candidates who are still in the custody of the kgb. they are vladimir nekliayev, andrei sannikov, nikolai statkevich and alexei mikhalevich, as well as two leaders of the democratic opposition parties, pavel severinets, co-chairman of the belarusian christian democrats and anatoly lebedko, the leader of the united civic party. we would ask for your support, colleagues, for those six names to be included in paragraph 3.
mr. chairman, please! europe, because of its roots, has a special duty to protect all christians throughout the world. this resolution is, of course, an expression of that. i supported her, of course. but europe also has a duty to take action to protect all christians in the world in the future and to prevent similar tragedies.
mr. chairman, please! recently, in several countries of the world, mostly muslim-majority, we have seen brutal acts of persecution against christian minorities. we cannot stand idly by in the face of such events. respect for religious freedom and other civil liberties remains a priority for the european parliament. i therefore fully support the statement by president buzek condemning these crimes. i also call on the european union to take all diplomatically available action to safeguard the religious freedoms of religious minorities, especially in countries where indigenous citizens are violating these rights. in the recently adopted human rights report 2009, we underlined the need for the union to play an active role in the quest for improvements in human rights and democracy in the world. we have called for the appointment of a special representative of the union for human rights. today's resolution is a perfect starting point for our further fight to uphold these rights.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my joy at the adoption of the resolution on the persecution of christians, which i was one of the authors of. at the same time, i would also like to express my gratitude to mrs catherine ashton for her response to the christians of alexandria. we remember the visit of the iraqi bishops of the syrian rite and their tragic accounts of the christians in iraq. i would also like to mention john paul ii (whose beatification ceremony will take place in a few months' time), who was a great advocate of peace and dialogue between christians, jews, muslims and other religions. we remember the meetings in assisi and also the visits of john paul ii to both the mosque and the synagogue, in the name of respect and love for the other person. the situation of christians in the world requires action by the european union. it's our duty. all political means must be used, but also those who have suffered material damage as a result of persecution must be helped.
mr. chairman, please! this resolution is very important because it is the first and it comes at a very special moment. we know about the persecution of christians in iraq. we know what's happening in egypt and what hasn't been happening in this country for the last few years. we know about individual cases but nevertheless of murders of christian clergy and not only in turkey, in syria, but also in pakistan. we also know what is happening in some of the muslim-majority countries in africa. and that is why i am very surprised by the silence of the president of the european commission, mr barroso. for a week, the man was silent. i was pressed by many of the member states' prime ministers - although not by my own prime minister - to speak out on this issue. it is good that mrs ashton has brought this up, but it is the head of the european commission who should be intervening right away. he didn't. too bad.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to express my outrage at mr. callanan's comparison of belarus to the european union. the nonsense he says is so unpleasant that it is applauded by some of my polish colleagues in the european conservatives. the lukashenko regime must be isolated. the policy of believing that it would gradually democratize has proved to be miscalculated. the sanctions that should be imposed on the lukashenka regime should be severe, not least because it is the closest neighbor to europe. the same requirements must also be imposed on these countries as on the countries of the european union. in particular, i would like the european commission to support independent media: belsat tv, radio racja and others. they are important for the transmission of the news, for the belarusian people to hear it.
mr. chairman, please! the events in belarus, related to the presidential elections, have once again shocked public opinion in europe. after a period of relative calm, president lukashenka has again resorted to violence against opposition activists. he invoked the most shameful features of his dictatorship. the brutal crackdown on peaceful demonstrators, the arrest of opposition leaders and their electoral opponents, constitute a flagrant violation of human rights and a failure to improve relations with democratic european countries. i therefore fully support the resolution of parliament calling for the immediate release of political prisoners and the holding of new elections. i strongly condemn the dictatorial practices of the regime of president lukashenka. i believe that the pressure of the european institutions will help to ease the repression against the belarusian citizens. at the same time, i approve of all measures to promote the development of civil society through visa facilitation, scholarships for students and academics, and funding for independent organisations and media.
mr. chairman, please! i supported this resolution, aware that the situation in belarus is very specific. we are facing a violent escalation of repression against human rights defenders. on the other hand, this is in some ways the result of a very foolhardy policy of some member states of the european union, because the credibility of mr lukashenko in the eyes of europe, the european union and the world, by prime minister berlusconi, who was visiting belarus, by president grybauskaitė of lithuania, and also by the foreign ministers of germany and poland, was certainly completely unnecessary. today we have to fight for civil liberties in belarus, but we have to do it in a way that does not push belarus into the hands of russia, which is also very important.
mr. chairman, please! this is an important report from someone with a lot of experience in this area. i think it should be very clear that the european union deserves more openness, more competition. that's not to be feared. this is good for europe's development, when, quite frankly, we are lagging behind in this competition with america and also with asia. this kind of resolution is designed to make the european economy more efficient, which is why it is so important, why it is so necessary, and why i voted for it.
mr. chairman, please! the initiative to make the black sea policy a full-fledged strategy, which was adopted in the resolution signed by mr ungureanu, deserves all the support. both the membership of bulgaria and romania and the eastern partnership, the special relations with the eastern partnership countries, russia and the eu accession negotiations justify the political importance of the region for the european union. the black sea has become an important region for the transit of energy raw materials and for future projects of importance to the union, such as the nabucco project, which is strategically important for the diversification of gas supplies. i also fully share the view of mr ungureanu, whom i congratulate on the report, that the strategy must ensure the involvement of all the countries in the region, not just the largest, and complement other strategies, such as the mediterranean strategy.
in writing. - libya is a country that requires a lot of work. dictatorship, ignorance of human rights, lack of immigration policy, poor health care are just some of the problems that libyans and foreigners living in the country have to face every day. on the other hand, the potential, the wealth of resources and the cultural heritage of this region of africa are values that can enable libya to develop economically, improve the quality of life of its people and open up its country to international markets. the development of the relevant terms of the eu-libya agreement, i.e. to persuade the libyan authorities to end their practices that violate fundamental human rights, to change their migration policy and to take legal responsibility, will be mutually beneficial and will contribute to the development of the region.
in writing. - there are more and more reports of persecution of christians. the statistics of international organizations are alarming, they say about 150,000 christians are killed every year worldwide. with such disregard for human life, it's hard to be indifferent. the european union, as the guardian of fundamental democratic values and human rights, should monitor the situation in third countries more closely, particularly in the middle east. our actions should be clearer and more decisive. freedom of challenge is a basic human right, and discrimination and violence on the basis of religion are contrary to our values. by respecting these laws, we set an example for other countries, but we should also be just as effective in enforcing the same behavior on others. human rights are universal, they should be respected everywhere, and we should respond firmly to any manifestation of intolerance, especially religious intolerance. as the union, we have the instruments to impose appropriate behaviour and respect for civil liberties, including religious freedom, on the governments of the countries with which we have political or commercial relations. in muslim countries, but also in countries like china, india and nepal, churches and chapels are burned with impunity, people are thrown out into the streets, tortured or even killed, women are forced to have abortions. in the name of good economic relations, this is not mentioned at the negotiating table. europe cannot remain silent.
in writing. - fellow workers! the countries of the former socialist bloc understand the political situation in belarus perfectly - restrictions on personal freedom, freedom of the press and media, or undemocratic system of government. in view of the recent events in belarus following the presidential elections, i would like to draw attention to the steps that the ep will take together with the european commission and the council to intervene in this matter. we must talk about the aspects of helping belarusian democracy and look for effective ways to review eu policy towards the lukashenka regime. in the current situation, we need to put pressure on minsk, to ask for the release of political prisoners, to stop the persecution of journalists. that's why i voted to pass the resolution. thank you, sir.
in writing. - the eu's policy towards belarus, a policy of dialogue and outreach, has proved ineffective. so now is the time to make tough but firm decisions that will mean sanctions against the regime on the one hand and opening up to belarusian civil society on the other, without which the country will not make the necessary changes. that is what this resolution is about.
in writing. - we voted on a key document on the union's competition policy. competition is essential for the healthy functioning of the economy. competition has to be seen globally and within the union. in a global approach, we must focus on the rules of the game in the market and on the cost side of competing producers outside the european union. this is mainly the case for chinese and korean producers. i welcome the call for the completion of a single railway market in europe. healthy competition rules can help to revitalise the railways, increasing their share of the transport market. this could bring us closer to the idea of a european railway system, like a road or an air system.
in writing. - we want the internal market to be efficient, dynamic and innovative. competition policy is the appropriate instrument to achieve these objectives. the priority for the near term is to ensure sustainable growth through increased employment, which will in turn lead to a strengthening of our competitiveness. this will improve the union's position in the world, help us to overcome the crisis, but above all improve the quality of life of our citizens. by having a well-functioning competition in the market for goods and services, we can guarantee better quality, lower prices and more choice for the consumer. in particular, we must remember small and medium-sized enterprises, which not only create jobs for the majority of our citizens, but also have a huge potential for innovation. it is therefore very important to create fair and non-discriminatory conditions for them to operate and to develop very clear and transparent competition rules. the commission's effective use of competition policy instruments has helped to stabilise the economy and to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis on businesses and consumers. 2009 was a period in which the aid was necessary to preserve the integrity of the single market and its competitiveness. state aid policy is a key element of competition policy, as it allows for a level playing field for all undertakings operating in the single market. however, this aid should be monitored to ensure that it does not affect the functioning of the market.
in writing. − the arctic ocean region is becoming increasingly important not only for the european continent but for the whole world. the climate changes in the far north will have a tremendous impact on all of humanity. it is imperative to concentrate efforts on scientific research and to develop a plan to counter these changes. the arctic is also a region of resources, such as hydrocarbons, and of potential for renewable energy, such as wind and hydro. another economically important resource is fish, which is fundamental to food security. we must not forget the maritime routes that have enabled international trade to flourish and many businesses to operate more efficiently. in all these areas, the european union can and should make a contribution, helping to develop the region and setting new standards in the quest to protect our planet's environment.
in writing. - the black sea region is a strategic area for europe. it is therefore in the interest of the european union to enhance cooperation on many fronts. the effectiveness of these measures requires that they be coherent and take account of the different circumstances in each country. it should also be noted that this is not just giving on our part. the black sea countries have a lot to offer us, from energy resources to natural resources. i share the rapporteur's concern about the lack of a clear strategy for these areas. bulgaria and romania, which are already members of the union, can play a major role in this. it's where the politics of the region are best known. the last point is turkey, which is the one that we should remember the most, because unlike europe, this country is developing at a crazy pace. it's a partnership that needs nurturing.
in writing. − the black sea region is an important region of the european union which requires an integrated approach and greater clarity on future action. this region requires the imposition of democratic measures aimed primarily at ensuring security, stability and peace and increasing prosperity. the strategy also aims to ensure the eu's energy security. in the context of the development of a strategy for the baltic sea macro-region and subsequently for the danube basin, the european commission's proposal in 2007 of a project called black sea synergy new regional cooperation initiative (then recognised as a strategic region for the eu) is the best way to address the above issues. unfortunately, the results of the black sea synergy have been rather limited so far. the commission has also been concerned about the lack of a clear and complete picture of current implementation performance, which is increasingly criticised for lack of a coherent vision and fragmentation. the rapporteur therefore believes that the eu strategy for the black sea region, building on the benefits of black sea synergy, should introduce a stronger policy framework and boost the eu's engagement in the black sea region. as with the eu baltic and danube strategies, successful implementation will depend on good dialogue at all levels of regional cooperation, where appropriate mechanisms for regular reporting, monitoring, evaluation and follow-up will be proposed.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. just weeks after pakistan's ruling coalition was on the verge of collapse, the country was rocked by the shooting of the governor of punjab in broad daylight. salmaan taseer was the governor of the country's most populous and richest province and a leading politician in the ruling party. he died because he had the moral strength and courage to demand the release of asi bibi, a christian woman who had been sentenced to death for blasphemy. his murder by his own bodyguard, inspired by muslim extremists, is not only another attack on a high-ranking politician in pakistan and a testament to the dramatically low security in the country, but above all, to the increasingly visible turn of this country pakistan towards a part of the military, judiciary and political elite that secretly and openly supports a policy of appeasement towards political and religious muslim extremists. yesterday we debated in this house the persecution of christians. we adopted a resolution on this matter today. i think this opens up a real opportunity for mrs ashton and her staff to apply diplomatic and political pressure on the pakistani authorities, who must finally start to fight religious extremism.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? exactly eight months ago, on 20 may, the european parliament adopted a resolution on freedom of religion in the islamic republic of pakistan. today, the issue is back in the house following the religiously motivated death sentence of 45-year-old asia bibi and the murder of the punjab governor, salman taseer, who publicly defended her. it turns out that the situation we described eight months ago has not only not improved, but has actually gotten worse. today in pakistan, you can be executed for both so-called religious blasphemy and for freedom of speech - in this case, publicly speaking about the verdict. the murder of governor taseera shows how delicate the situation is. pakistan is divided religiously to the point that people are dying on both sides of the christian and muslim divide, including members of the local elites. publicly supporting the amendment of the penal code, especially article 295c which says the death penalty for blasphemy, can also be a death threat. but we should demand courage from pakistani politicians, especially from the opposition, such as the pakistan muslim league, which is blocking the government's reform of the code. we can also support the ministry of minority affairs and help the government of prime minister gilanni with issues such as improving the quality of journalism in the media and educational materials in schools. the european parliament is not interfering in pakistan's internal affairs today, but is merely recalling article 20 of its 1973 constitution and the freedom of religion enshrined therein.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. pakistan again, again the problem, again the political murder. we're actually working on this case again. a few months ago, there was a resolution on pakistan. the problem comes back, so it's like a hot potato. i think it is necessary to speak here about the unacceptable tolerance for these muslim imams who publicly in pakistan, for example in peshawar, call for killing, for example by offering monetary rewards. these things have happened, and the pakistani authorities are not responding. it's important to be clear that in a sense, by not acting and not reacting, they're taking responsibility for this.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am not italian, i am not brazilian, i am a citizen of a member state of the european union, and i do not want the union to be an asymmetric union, to have the same rights for the criminal and the victims or the families of the victims of crime. this is unacceptable. it is a matter of some basic, i would even say human, rather than european standards. i think that in this case, as someone who is not so emotionally involved and who is perhaps looking at it more coolly and objectively, i can say that there has indeed been a kind of imbalance here, which is incomprehensible to our taxpayers, to our voters. i think that the decision of the supreme court of brazil in this case is incomprehensible and will be incomprehensible to any man who delves into it.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. nasrin sotudeh had already given us grounds to debate in the european forum about the lack of human rights protection in iran when she was arrested on september 4, 2010 on charges of anti-state propaganda and conspiracy and gathering to act against state security for 4 months. now, after a trial, this prominent human rights defender and staunch collaborator of nobel laureate shirin ebadi has been sentenced to 11 years in prison, 20 years of ban from practicing her profession, and a ban on leaving iran. let us remember that other political prisoners have also received long prison sentences: 26-year-old women's rights activist shiva nazar ahari was sentenced to 4 years and 74 lashes for the same crime. the opposition to the flagrant violation of fundamental human rights such as freedom of assembly, expression, freedom of thought and the right to a fair trial must be clearly stated. nasrin sotudeh, who has dedicated her life to the fight for human rights, defending minors sentenced to death, those accused of peaceful protest, working closely with the opposition, has become a living testimony to the human rights violations in iran. the european union cannot remain a passive observer of this unequal struggle of the iranian people against the regime.
mr. chairman, please! this is another matter that is upsetting the european public, upsetting us parliamentarians. it is that if in the same country we are constantly faced with situations that clearly violate human rights, we have to think about the structure and responsibility of that country. it is clear that respecting one's own traditions and customs, but also recognising certain declared standards, including european standards - and this is about human rights - is not compatible. this case is obvious. it is good that the european parliament has taken up this matter. it is only a question of political pressure, because it is just another case in which the european parliament has a say when it comes to iran, and it does not have much effect. perhaps we should apply much more pressure than we have been doing.
mr. chairman, please! in the previous debate on human rights violations in iran, which took place in this house just four months ago, i reported in my speech that every day five iranian citizens are told that they will soon lose their lives as a result of the death penalty. added to this tragic statistic are the many years of prison sentences for iranian lawyers who defend victims of the iranian justice system. i think those last two words should be taken with a grain of salt. nasrin sotudeh, 47, arrested on september 4, tortured and sentenced to eleven years in prison, is an example. other iranian lawyers have also been targeted. shiva nazar ahari, co-founder of the human rights committee, received a four-year prison sentence, mohammad seifzadeh, nine years in prison and a ten-year ban from practicing his profession, mohammad olyaeifard, a year in prison for the very act of representing his clients in court. i think that using the negotiating position of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, we should push for the issue of human rights defenders to be urgently included in the talks with iran.
in writing. the european parliament must respond to human rights violations. we must remember that by highlighting specific cases, the international community can put more pressure on countries that do not adhere to generally accepted democratic standards. nasrin sotoudeh has represented civil society activists, human rights defenders and juvenile offenders sentenced to death in iranian trials. the iranian authorities found her to be spreading hostile propaganda and sentenced her to 11 years in prison. it is fortunate that her case has been brought to the attention of the european parliament's plenary session. the european parliament's call for the release of nasrin sotoudeh and other prisoners of conscience, and the establishment of an independent commission to investigate the trials of human rights defenders, should not be ignored.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 20 january 2011.
i would like to give you five pieces of information and some preliminary remarks. the first concerns the situation in the mediterranean region, which is changing very rapidly, as we all know. the european parliament has been and is ready to accompany the democratic changes initiated by the citizens themselves, our european neighbours. in debating tunisia today, we are discussing a partner country that has already started on the road to true democracy. i just met with the foreign minister of tunisia. i was also joined by five colleagues from the european parliament. the situation in egypt is different, and the direction of irreversible change is more uncertain. but these changes must not lose their momentum. the two countries have one thing in common: all democratic forces must urgently undertake political reforms, followed by economic and social reforms. we must also prepare for free and democratic elections so that the people's call for democracy is not left unanswered. we too must send a signal - and we will do so during this session, both today and tomorrow in the vote - that democracy in the european union's neighbouring countries is as important to it as their stability. there is no choice between democracy and stability, both are essential. secondly, on 20 january this year, the 20th anniversary of latvian bloody sunday was celebrated. it was then that pro-soviet units of omon attacked strategic buildings in the capital of the newly born state. defending latvia's independence, 7 people died and many were injured. on 29 january, following a trial that flouted international standards, a dutch citizen and therefore a citizen of the european union, mrs sarah bahrami, was hanged in iran. i call on the iranian authorities to clarify the charges against ms bahra and the course of the unclear judicial process. the european union is of the view that the death penalty can never be regarded as an act of justice. on 26 january, human rights defender and civil society activist david kato was murdered in uganda. i call on the ugandan authorities to arrest the perpetrators of this murder. we all regret that homosexuality is still considered a crime in this country. finally, in connection with today's debate on the preparations for the european council on 4 february, i would like to inform you that a meeting of the conference of presidents will be held on 8 february, which is next week, and is open to all members. the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, will be the guest of honour at this special conference of presidents, and will report on the outcome of friday's summit, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, which provides for such a report.
- thank you, lord!
the final draft agenda prepared by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed at its meeting on thursday 20 january 2011, after consultation with the political groups. the following changes are proposed: the following shall be reported: point 1. after my statement on the recognition by the european union of the genocide of the roma during the second world war, the following points will be made: the council's speech, the commission's speech and the tour of speakers on behalf of political groups on the roma genocide. the title of the debate on the situation in tunisia is amended as follows: statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in the mediterranean region, in particular in tunisia and egypt. the vote on the motions for resolutions on tunisia will take place tomorrow as scheduled. the vote on the motions for resolutions on egypt will take place during the second part-session of february in strasbourg. the debate on the council and commission statements on rising food prices is postponed to the second part-session in february. it is replaced by a council and commission statement on the appointment of the members of the senior management of the european supervisory authorities, followed by a round of speakers from the political groups. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions. i would like to inform you that mr speroni's report on the request for waiver of the immunity of mr tamás deutsch will be tabled at the time of the vote. (the order of business has been set) other amendments to the agenda: see minutes
thank you for your attention. we will no doubt discuss this and decide on further decisions on this matter.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the president on the eu recognition of the genocide of the roma during the second world war (2010/3020 ((rsp)). roma are now the largest ethnic minority in the european union. they are also the most oppressed community in europe today. during world war ii, they were racially persecuted by the nazis, as were the jews. hundreds of thousands of roma, citizens of europe for generations, have been murdered. the 66th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau, which we celebrated on 27 january, reminds us that roma were the third largest group of victims of the camp. unfortunately, this fact is not widely known to europeans. only some eu member states have officially recognised the genocide of the roma. it is time to make europeans aware that the roma living among us have been traumatized by the genocide as a community. education is the best way to fight discrimination. the european parliament is the voice of the union in the fight for human rights. today we remember our roma brothers and sisters. we want to remember their suffering and to understand their situation better. colleagues, there will now be a very short discussion on this topic so please do not leave the chamber. first we will have a statement from the council and, as you know, roma integration is one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency. this will be followed by a statement from the vice-president of the commission and then short statements on behalf of the political groups.
on behalf of the ecr group. the fact that roma were subjected to genocide during the second world war is as obvious as the fact that jews were subjected to such a process. all those who deny this fact should be treated as harshly as those who deny the holocaust of the jews. chairman buzek is right when he says that roma were the third largest ethnic group murdered in auschwitz. the second group was the poles. it is good to remember all those nations that were victims of the holocaust during world war ii. everything that happened in auschwitz and other concentration camps, the murders in katyn and other places during those terrible 5, 6 years should be remembered so that a similar situation never happens again. the european parliament has a moral and political duty to ensure that this memory is preserved. our discussion today is one element of such a memory.
madam president-in-office, mr vice-president of the commission, colleagues, i would like to thank you all for your remarks. this is a very important debate for all of us, and for the european parliament as a whole. the debate is closed. written statement (rule 149)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the victims of the tyranny of the third reich during world war ii is still a very delicate subject, but one worth exploring. today we want to broaden the context of the concept of the holocaust, which functions in the public consciousness as the mass extermination of the jews. the purges of the elderly ethnic, national and social groups during the second world war are also worthy of remembrance and commemoration. knowledge of this subject is not widespread enough, especially among young europeans. that is why we are trying to bring up in today's debate the painful and somewhat forgotten issue of the extermination of the roma. the porajmos, as the term is used for the genocide of the roma population, took between 500,000 and 2 million roma from all over europe. in auschwitz, they were the third nation after the jews and the poles in terms of murders committed. these facts leave no doubt about the enormous losses suffered by the roma, which places us as europeans under an obligation to promote and commemorate this unjust victim of genocide. raising awareness is a priority for current and future generations.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council on 4 february 2011. the first vote will be taken on behalf of the council by the minister and president , enikő győri . - there you go.
we are about to decide to allocate 1 trillion euros to develop the energy infrastructure in the european union. the only reason to spend public money on energy is to make sure it's safe. the european union's energy security depends on deep diversification, which implies not only new transmission routes but also access to new sources of raw materials. otherwise we will be repeating the mistakes of the ten-t programme, which considered projects such as nord stream to be european. we don't need any more new routes to pump the same russian raw material into the european market. if we repeat the same mistakes we have made before, we will only create a market and competition trap.
mr president, the extent to which the eu needs ‘energy energising’ today is obvious if we look at the energy security issue, the geopolitical situation around us and energy policy itself. the union should not be – as in the case of egypt and tunisia – failing to keep up with events. to quote my colleague mr gahler, however, the us is one step behind the events, the member states are one step behind the us, and brussels is one step behind the member states. four years ago we had a serious energy crisis, and in 2007 we adopted an energy security report in this house. four years later we are at the very initial stages of a common energy policy and energy security. it is very important that this council, this forthcoming summit, translates the change from words into action. we need physical security, and not only plans and documents and words and papers. the time has come to wake up. what if something bad happens in geopolitical terms in northern africa and the middle east? a great tectonic change is taking place before our eyes. oil now costs usd 100 again. if, in the worst case scenario, the suez canal should be blocked, how prepared are we as a union to ensure security of supply? where are we? after four years of lost time, we are not prepared for the next energy crisis if it happens. for that reason the key expectation is that the european council should provide a real change in terms of a genuine internal market for energy and genuine security of supply in a material and physical sense.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this debate clearly confirms that both energy and innovation are absolutely crucial for the future of europe and the future of the european economy. clearly we would all agree that, if we take the right steps now, not only can we make an important contribution to economic recovery in the short term, but we can also make our european economy much more competitive in the long term. i also agree with all of you who called for concrete deliverables and for concrete actions to be taken. the commission is therefore pushing very hard to have very clear targets. we would like to have a real internal market in the field of energy by 2014. we must finally unlock the potential of the internal market in this very important field of the economy. to give just one figure: if we do this right, consumers can save eur 13 billion by having the possibility of getting electricity from a cheaper provider. this is more than eur 100 per year per consumer, and this is just the beginning. therefore we need to push the european council to take real ownership of the internal market in the field of energy and to exercise ownership in relation to the very important transposition of the legislation, not only at european level but also at national level in each and every member state. i listened very carefully to our meps from the baltic countries. i think it is high time to overcome the situation whereby we have isolated energy islands. therefore 2015 is the right time for finalising the work on this very important project and getting our baltic member states connected to the real european grid. if there was something with which i did not completely agree, it was the statement on barack obama’s state of the union address. i listened to this and i must say i felt that it was very much inspired by what we do here in europe – what we suggested in the eu 2020 strategy. he spoke about energy efficiency, the importance of education, the new impetus on protection of the environment, and the reduction of poverty. these are precisely the goals we have set for ourselves for the next 10 years. i really believe that we are leaders where environmental policies are concerned. you can check the position of the european union in all environmental summits, and see the energy invested in bringing the whole world onto the right course in this particular field. concerning our goals – our famous 2020 goals – we are doing quite well regarding the reduction of emissions. we are also doing quite well in increasing the share of renewable resources in all our energy production. but it is true – and i have to admit this here – that we are lagging behind in meeting the targets for energy efficiency. therefore we, as a commission, will monitor development in this field very closely and we will have a review of the targets in 2013. i can promise you that, if the results are not ambitious enough, we will seriously consider imposing legally binding targets for this field as well. we all know that the cleanest energy is safe energy. concerning the comments on the innovation economy, here i think it is very clear that we have to raise the level of innovation priorities and innovation policies. we have to unlock the potential that has existed in europe in this field for many years. we can see that, as regards closing our innovation gap with the usa and japan, we are not doing as well as we would have expected to. we can see how emerging economies are closing on us, so we have to focus on this area as much as possible. we have to analyse the real causes of our lack of ambitious progress. one of them has been mentioned, namely the problem of red tape, bureaucracy and over-complicated rules. therefore the commission has already suggested – and this was adopted last week – a simplification of the rules for the seventh framework programme for all innovation policies. i think we will all have a good opportunity in the context of the next multiannual financial framework discussion to improve the way in which we execute and implement european programmes, because we will also be discussing financial regulations. we have to look very carefully for a balance between appropriate control and the necessary flexibility in programme execution, so that we do not create additional red tape in relation to programmes which are especially important for the promotion of innovation policies in europe. the economy will, of course, be discussed as well. the february european council meeting will be a meeting of transition and a search for a comprehensive approach to the current economic challenges in europe, whether in relation to the eurozone or in the field of improved economic governance for the whole european union. i can assure you that the commission is relentless in proposing measures to stabilise the situation in the financial market and in seeking long-term solutions. we believe that all this must constitute a comprehensive response which will allow us, finally, to move out of reactive mode and to plan for long-term measures and a long-term strengthening of the european economy. regarding comments on treaty change and on the setting-up of the permanent european stability mechanism, the commission is convinced that the treaty provides the right framework for further reinforcement of economic governance. it is quite clear that to do this outside the union framework raises political and institutional issues which will have to be very carefully examined by the commission. i am sure that the leaders will discuss this issue too in friday’s european council meeting. the situation in egypt and tunisia was discussed this morning in the college of commissioners. there was clear support for the legitimate aspirations of the people of egypt and clear confirmation that the commission stands ready to step up its assistance to egypt and its people in this transition. the discussion on the situation in tunisia and egypt will follow and i am sure that my colleague cathy ashton will be able to address it in more precise terms.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i should like to thank the speakers for all the comments and interventions. i witnessed an extremely valuable discussion here in parliament, which will contribute to friday’s discussion by the heads of state and government on energy and innovation issues. i wholeheartedly understand parliament saying that what we are doing for energy or innovation is not enough. we are very committed to the lisbon treaty’s provision on the formation of the european internal energy market; we are greatly committed to moving in that direction. of course, please encourage us to do more in this field. i do not want to go into details because i think vice-president šefčovič was very detailed on all the aspects of the future common energy policy in europe. the same for innovation. we all believe that we have to put more things on the table concerning innovation; the innovation union is a great investment in the future. a strong europe cannot live without strong common policies and european energy and european innovation policy should be one of those. my question to mr schulz is why he allowed me answer as a representative of the hungarian government. i think mr schulz read a different letter from the letter we sent to the commission. he said that the hungarian government neglected the commission consensus and was not ready to take it into consideration. let me quote certain lines from this letter, beginning with the statement that the government of the republic of hungary is ready to amend the law on the media. ‘the modification of the legislation could be considered’. ‘the hungarian government is also prepared to examine the possibility of finding other legal solutions if necessary’. finally, ‘if the commission … still deems it necessary’ after the consultations ‘to amend the hungarian regulation …, we are prepared to commence drafting these modifications’. so, i would just like to inform you that, as is clearly stated in the letter, there is a consultation. we are ready. the commission yesterday said it was pleased that the answer had arrived. experts will get down to business and it is our job to find a solution to this kind of problem. i very much hope that in the future all kinds of discussions will be dedicated to energy and innovation and not mix up the presidency with some aspects of certain political parties.
we are therefore closing the agenda item. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the energy summit this week will highlight the importance of energy solidarity. the most effective ways of ensuring security of energy supply are: the full single market, the pan-european network, law enforcement and transparent rules. unfortunately, some of our leaders don't understand that. instead, they prefer to believe in their own domestic energy solutions and to bargain with suppliers from third countries. we should therefore heed the recent calls by european energy companies for market liberalisation and full implementation of eu energy legislation. when preparing the infrastructure package, we need to be sure that the european projects we want to invest in are selected on the basis of clear and transparent criteria. in creating a pan-european network, we must also, as president barroso said, put particular emphasis on investing in countries with very underdeveloped and outdated energy infrastructure. and the market's not gonna do it for you. we need public funds. we cannot afford a two-speed europe in energy. thank you, sir.
in writing. mr president, i believe that at the next summit on 4 february, the european energy council should seek to ensure equal treatment for all energy sources, both conventional and non-conventional. particular emphasis should be placed on indigenous energy sources, including fossil fuels (coal, shale gas), in order to ensure the eu's energy security. the use of these sources, with appropriate eu support, will not only be decisive for the security of energy supply, but also for competitiveness and employment in the eu. at the same time, i would like to recall that ensuring adequate investment in energy infrastructure in the eu is a guarantee of the further development of the member states. it expects the european council's conclusions to reflect properly the progress of the discussion on the 2050 objectives so far and not to prejudge the discussion on the objectives to be held in march 2011. thank you,
in writing. at the next european council summit, scheduled for 4 february, the heads of state or government will discuss two subjects: the community's energy policy and research and development. the first will focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy and security of supply (a particular focus for poland), and the second on international scientific cooperation and simplification of eu science programmes. however, i have the impression that the summit, which was convened under the motto of energy and innovation, will turn into a conference on current affairs - those within the european union (economic policy) and those seemingly further afield (the political situation in tunisia, egypt and belarus). it turns out that the inflation of the problems that the eu has to deal with is growing exponentially, and even more eu summits - as proposed by president van rompuy - will not solve this. the union will soon have to find answers to the questions: should the european financial stability facility be increased? how can national economic policies be coordinated so that the fund is not needed in the future? finally, how can we respond to events with strong international dynamics so that the eu's voice is heard? in formulating the response, it will be important not only to have the numbers (energy targets to be achieved by 2020), but also the genuine will of the countries. europe consumes one fifth of the world's energy; how much time will it devote to it at friday's meeting in brussels?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen in the debate on the preparations for the european council on 4 february, the issue of the european union's energy policy was raised. energy security is a priority area and the creation of a common energy market should be our common european objective, to which we must strive through integrated action. alternative energy sources, which are becoming increasingly important in europe, were also a very important part of the debate. energy policy is closely linked to the development of modern technologies and the creation of green jobs. particular attention should be paid to the need to expand the european research area. these actions are perfectly in line with the vision of the europe 2020 strategy, which focuses on innovation and the development of scientific research and the creation of green jobs. and this is where europe should join forces.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by the vice-president of the commission, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, on the situation in the mediterranean, in particular in tunisia and egypt.
mr. chairman, please! mass protests in tunisia and egypt, and especially in strategically important egypt, are absorbing the attention of all political forces in the world. the scenarios range from a peaceful takeover by pro-democracy forces to economic chaos and the outbreak of armed conflict, including the use of nuclear weapons. the situation is dynamic and unpredictable. arab societies, deprived for years of basic rights such as freedom of speech and participation in free elections, are determined to change power at any cost. the european parliament should find a common position and take action to avoid destabilisation of the whole region. we must not forget the resolution recently passed by this house on the persecution of christians, which also concerned egypt. we should consider taking more concrete steps and sending a fact-finding mission to egypt.
madam president, the honourable high representative! i believe that the european union has made some mistakes in the past in its relations with tunisia and egypt. this was the case with tunisia, when we were silent in 2009 after ben ali won the presidential election. as a reminder, he won 90% of the vote, and the elections were neither free nor democratic. similarly, in tunisia, the reform of the penal code put an end to the activities of ngos and human rights organisations. today we cannot afford such a policy of inaction, of inactivity in the context of european activity in the north african region. without our active role and determination in restoring stability to the region, it will be very difficult to achieve it. only our active and determined response to the events in north africa can restore governments to respect for human rights, freedom of speech and media in these countries. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! we cannot compare the internal situation of tunisia with that of egypt. the mass protests had similar motives, but their implications for the international situation are completely different. the far-reaching changes in tunisia caused by the exhaustion of ben ali's social acceptance may be a chance for a better future for the country. that is the extent of the caution that must be exercised in assessing the situation in egypt. hosni mubarak, despite the feudalism of the state, guaranteed the stability of egypt. today, his overthrow, in the absence - and this is important - of a democratic opposition that has not yet had the conditions to develop, could push egypt into the arms of what seems to be an extreme political formation linked to the muslim brotherhood. the international implications of such developments are worth considering. is a possible alliance with hamas, a hardline policy towards israel, an increase in persecution of christians, an escalation of the situation in the region better than the stabilization of mubarak? given the fundamental flaws and the validity of the protest against what happened under mubarak's regime, it is worth considering what is the optimal solution in this situation and how the european union should behave.
every revolution carries the danger that the demands of the people for democracy and bread will be usurped by the enemies of the legal order based on the legal and real foundations of democracy. there is no guarantee that the revolts in tunisia, egypt and other countries in the region will not become a pretext for islamic extremists to seize power, as happened in iran. the european institutions are also being tested. the european union is well placed to finally play the role it was created to play. we must effectively support those political forces which are in favour of pluralism. the way in which the neighbourhood policy has been conducted, which has apparently been used to support the rule of corrupt rulers, also needs to be reviewed. the money allocated to the development of neighbouring areas, freedom, democracy and prosperity should go to the citizens of these countries in large part through close cooperation with ngos, academia and cultural people. the priority should also be to support projects targeting young people and women's organisations. madam high representative, the european union's policy in this region of the world has been a failure. we must risk supporting egypt without mubarak, on the path to a pluralistic secular republic of egypt that respects its minorities. mubarak has to go today. his time is up. the time he had, he wasted.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in tunisia and egypt today could be the key to the future of the entire region. for a long time, the people of this region have not had the opportunity to openly express their aspirations, their dreams, their fears. we don't know yet what the events in north africa will lead to. what is certain is that we should try to have a greater influence on the situation. it's happening in the countries closest to us. european involvement in the region we're talking about has been really big. it's only recently that we've learned that local governments have not fully addressed what the public has been expecting. the things that most often trigger social discontent were the things that sparked the protests - poverty, hopelessness, and the arrogance of power. i don't think tunisia and egypt dream of democracy in the western dimension. people just want a better life, and a better life doesn't have to be tied to democracy. do they deserve a better life? yes, it certainly is. everyone has the right to a better life, to respect for human dignity, to freedom, to development. may their hopes be fulfilled quickly and without bloodshed. thank you very much.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, experts believe that the riots in tunisia have caused a domino effect. there is a strong likelihood that the next country in the region after tunisia and egypt to see changes will be yemen. libya, algeria, jordan, syria and morocco are also mentioned. globalization through the free exchange of information opens the eyes of citizens of regimes. they want change, a decent life in a modern democratic state of law with transparent rules. in what situation should the eu promote these values and do everything possible to prevent arab countries from civil wars or extremist takeovers? i would like to stress that our support must be limited to political action, to the exclusion of military action. as the eu, we should support the arab countries in their peaceful reforms. there is a clear need for dialogue with both the outgoing authorities and the opposition, including islamist movements. it is necessary to increase the eu's presence in the region, it is necessary to reform the entire european neighbourhood policy, which will allow better promotion of democratisation not only in the arab countries, but also in our eastern neighbours like belarus. we need effective strategic plans that include adequate financial support from our side to promote democracy, civil society and human rights. i believe that the union should speak with one voice and unequivocally condemn anti-democratic regimes.
in writing. yesterday, the united nations announced that the riots that accompanied the tunisian revolution had resulted in over 200 deaths. it is the tragic dimension of these extremely surprising events in the south that should compel us all to make even greater efforts to democratize this country and the entire region. especially as we see the old order collapse in egypt as well. unfortunately, there was no question of a single european union voice. let us not be fooled into thinking that with such strong national interests, the new eu diplomacy will be a force to be reckoned with. but in the case of tunisia, we have in our hands tools that are less spectacular, but very powerful. this is the eu's neighbourhood policy, which is currently under review and should be modified accordingly. it is also the possibility of sending an eu observation mission, which i do not think anyone needs to be persuaded to do. these are the specific tasks we must tackle in the ep.
mr. chairman, please! we are very pleased that the referendum in south sudan has gone so smoothly. our observers have consistently praised the progress of the observation mission. the evaluation of the referendum itself in terms of the standards we promote is also positive. the referendum was credible, well organised and gave the voters a chance to express their will. it was also clear how much the sudanese people were attached to this referendum, as the turnout reached 60% on the fourth day. this clearly shows the degree of determination in the matter of self-determination. president bashir has often been criticised by our parliament, but this time we must appreciate the statement he made on 24 january in juba, which mrs ashton mentioned. the president has said that he will accept any decision that comes out of the referendum, even one that means the secession of south sudan, and the will of the people - as all indications suggest - is very clear. i also share the wishes and hope that if the two parts of sudan are indeed divided, they will enjoy peaceful coexistence. now it's important that this calm atmosphere of the referendum be complemented by a calm period of the announcement of the results and the transformation of the two countries. many observers fear that the current wave of unrest and democratization expectations in several countries, which has also reached sudan, could become a pretext to freeze the peace process and prevent the completion of ambitious plans. on the other hand, there are positive signs, for example from the african union, which is known to be ready to recognize the independence of the new african state. we must also be aware that the referendum is not the end of the matter, that the ultimate success will be the implementation of the will of the people of sudan. as we know, this could happen on july 9th, when sudan's independence is proclaimed and we can then rejoice in the end of this bloody conflict.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. in today's debate, we must not be tempted to be overly optimistic. predicting what might happen in sudan is a pipe dream. despite the high hopes raised by the recent referendum, the case is not yet decided. it is not a foregone conclusion that the partition of the country will be in accordance with the wishes of the people of the south. another issue is that at the moment that part of the country is united by its hatred of the muslim north. when that resentment passes and it's time to build state institutions, we'll soon see a mixture of 300 culturally and linguistically distinct tribes. this is an issue that must be considered now because it will be very important. the next question we need to ask and answer is why there is now hope for a peaceful end to a half-century of conflict. the obvious answer is oil. the smell of petrodollars is a thorn in the side of both the government and the foreign oil companies, without which the oil industry in the impoverished country would not be possible. let's hope that greed doesn't blind us, and that the willingness to help not only provides the means to build a nation, but allows us to create programs that enrich society.
four years before the deadline for the millennium development goals, the number of tb cases at the dawn of the new century continues to be alarming. tuberculosis is a curable disease. unfortunately, in developing countries, especially in asia and sub-saharan africa, it is a very serious problem. according to recent estimates, nearly two billion people are infected with tb, or one third of the world's population. statistically, one in ten of these people will develop tb. poor regions of the world are particularly vulnerable to the increase in tb because of poor nutrition and housing conditions, as well as stress. in many countries, access to effective treatment for the disease is limited, and there is a lack of coordination between the treatment of aids and tb. this is because governments in developing countries do not spend enough on health. in addition, rural health systems suffer from a lack of staff and resources to treat these diseases. so in countries with limited financial resources, the worst impacts are in rural areas. developed countries spend about 5 percent of their gdp on public health care, and developing countries spend about half that. that is why we cannot increase health expenditure in poor countries without outside help, as mr goerens has said. and tb is not just a medical problem, it's a socioeconomic problem, because it affects productivity and it has economic consequences. all of these things make it clear that we need to be very decisive, and we really need to do everything we can to make the vaccine more accessible.
member of the commission. - madam president, i will try to give some answers to what has been said. firstly, as i said in my introduction, there is a need to strengthen research. the commission is looking for ways to increase the funding of its tb programmes and one solution could be to renew the edctp programme, which i have mentioned to you, which is currently running on 400 million euros, 200 million of which are from the commission. the latter is also considering the possibility of imagining an edctp ii programme, for example. it should also be noted - and i say this to mr tănăsescu - that the commission is already spending a lot of money on the tuberculosis research programme. i can even give you a figure: 65 million euros have already been allocated to this programme. but it is clear that this is not enough, and public/private partnership must also be studied. however, if it is possible to finance vaccine candidates in a clinical phase, the question of effectiveness arises. as i was saying, what we have on the table at the moment does not guarantee that a large amount of funding will lead to a positive outcome. vitamins are also an approach under consideration, but what we need to avoid is the development of resistance. this is perhaps a way to look at it, but with the risk of this happening. let us now look more broadly at health systems in the european union, as well as in developing countries. in the european union, health is also one of the objectives that the commission is trying to encourage in the member states through various programmes, including in the eu2020 agenda, namely investing in health. in the field of research, in one of the research and innovation initiatives, the commission and in particular a group of commissioners are working on the subject to ensure that innovation can be stimulated in the member states to strengthen research in the field of health, in parallel with the issues concerning the ageing of the population. the european union is already doing a great deal for developing countries with the development fund in the field of health, and this is something that will be the focus of the commission's attention in the future. i hope that i have been able to provide some answers to your questions on behalf of the commission. i can only assure you that the commission's concerns in the field of research remain very much alive.
in writing. as a member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i support the sharing of eu research results in the field of tb vaccination development with developing countries and support for developing countries in financing treatment of tb patients. tb is one of the most common infectious diseases, along with hiv and malaria. one third of the world's population is infected with tb strains, there are 8 million new cases every year, and 2.6 to 2.9 million people die from tb. more than 95 percent of the cases are in developing countries. every second, a person dies from the tb bacteria. the disease develops in about 10% of those infected. if left untreated, it can be fatal. the highest incidence rates are in india, china, indonesia, south africa, nigeria, bangladesh, and ethiopia. in asia and africa, the incidence rates are between 100 and 120 per 100 000 population. in many countries, access to effective treatment is limited. tuberculosis is a serious economic problem. the global loss of productivity in the workforce as a result of this disease is 13 billion dollars a year. the eradication of tuberculosis is one of the millennium development goals that the union aims to achieve by 2015. we only have four years left. tuberculosis is now a fully curable disease. we need comprehensive programs to both prevent and treat tb. it is essential to launch rapidly an information campaign on tb, its prevention and treatment, and to launch a vaccination programme.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in the context of our debate, i would like to point out that tb is responsible for about 3 million deaths a year worldwide at the beginning of the 21st century. statistics show that one third of the world's population is infected with the tuberculosis strain. the problem is troubling. we must remember that only the best, most innovative vaccines are the primary weapon in the fight. we need to work to increase international engagement and to think about funding vaccines, especially for developing countries. in addition, an active media campaign is needed to inform the public about the problem, the ways of transmission and prevention, because many people believe that tb is a disease that does not concern us in the modern world. thank you.
in writing. i am concerned about the conclusions of the oral question: five years before the mdgs deadline, the global incidence of tuberculosis has declined slightly. the information i have available to me shows that over 73% of doctors in central and eastern europe admit that they feel inadequately trained to diagnose and treat tb. the general feeling among doctors is much worse -- 75 percent of doctors think tb is on the rise. why is there such a discrepancy between official statistics and what medical practitioners observe? - the system for collecting data on new tb cases is outdated, and health services often fail to comply with this obligation. it should be emphasized that prevention, education, and hygiene are the key weapons in the fight against the disease, and they can help prevent tb transmission. i agree with the authors of the question that one solution to this problem could be to introduce a vaccination programme in parallel with a large-scale information campaign.
i have spoken many times in the european parliament on the policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which is very strongly supported by the european parliament and the european commission. however, i have pointed out that this policy also leads to very unfavourable changes in the economy. in many sectors, this leads to industrial emigration to other countries outside the european union. unfortunately, the comments of many meps, pointing to the negative aspects of radical carbon reductions, are not taken into account by the european commission. and so we learn that the next big industrial plants from germany, from poland are planning to move production to the countries of the former soviet union, or even to africa or south america. this requires concrete action by the commission, which is lacking in perspective and vision.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. mrs gomes is right, mrs lochbihler is right, when she says that events in egypt or tunisia should be supported by us and should attract our attention. and indeed, the instruments we are discussing today provide that opportunity, especially the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world. and i think that this should be very strongly supported, because indeed - as mrs gomes said - these rights are universal, and therefore the right to live in a democracy, the right to live in a state that accepts human rights, is something natural. it is important that the second instrument allows for this assistance to be granted independently of the consent of the governments of third countries and other public authorities. and that is important. belarus, ukraine and the other eastern partnership countries need our help. and i think these instruments should be used for those countries as well.
i would like to ask mrs matera if she would be willing to say that the epp would be particularly keen to support aid to the east, namely ukraine, belarus and the other eastern partnership countries, in the areas of democracy and human rights.
madam president! waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union. this is a multifaceted problem, because on the one hand it is about protecting the environment and human health, and on the other hand it is about managing resources and raw materials efficiently. the revision of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive should take into account not only ambitious targets but also more realistic ones from the point of view of the new member states. in the new member states, electronic equipment such as computers, televisions and refrigerators are replaced much less frequently and these devices are used for much longer than in other member states. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur members aim to address the problem of disproportionate methodology and the disadvantageous treatment of new members of the european union. such a system takes much more account of market disparities and differences in mentality between member states. however, i believe that new regulations in this area should place greater emphasis on effective control of harvests and enforcement. in many countries, there are numerous irregularities, such as the creation of fictitious waste collection records, or so-called invoice trading. it is common to create false documents to certify that equipment has been assembled and processed, to overweight the processed equipment, or to issue a certificate that different equipment has been assembled than actually assembled. in addition, inadequate supervision and controls have resulted in a grey area in many countries where collected equipment is dismantled outside the processing plants, and such situations and practices must be strongly prevented.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, last evening we had an extremely fruitful discussion in this house on the appointment process for the chairs and executive directors of the new supervisory agencies. i am sincerely grateful to this house and the members who participated in the debate. members pointed out some issues that needed to be clarified and will have to be monitored in order to reach our common aim: having a well-functioning supervisory system that is capable of doing its job properly. we share your view that it is of utmost importance to ensure that the agencies can function independently, that they have capable leaders with proper authority and that the appropriate financing of the institutions is guaranteed. parliament’s message has reached the presidency and found open doors. i am convinced that we managed to reach a fine agreement on the issue. i kindly invite you all to vote in support of the candidates.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote you are about to take in all responsibility is a very important vote. it is a question of choosing the presidents of the three supervisory authorities for banks, insurance and markets, and thus putting these three new authorities on the right track, which, together with the systemic risk board, finally constitute the first real european architecture for supervision of financial markets, which owes you a great deal, since it was thanks to a vote by parliament that these authorities were created and their powers were strengthened. you will cast that vote responsibly and we will respect it. as it was my responsibility within the college, i carried out this work of selecting the candidates from 275 applications, which i did not choose. they came freely from the member states, from the regulatory authorities. it was a transparent, open process, in which anyone who wanted to run could participate. at the end of this process, i myself received the preselected personalities. i have to say, mr olle schmidt, that i myself regretted that for one of the three posts - it was the european banking authority - one of the two preselected persons, who was a woman of high quality, withdrew just before christmas, at the last moment. i will ensure - this is a first commitment i want to make - that, following the appointment process for the executive directors under way - i received the shortlisted personalities this morning on behalf of one of the authorities - there will be a greater balance and diversity of representation, particularly in terms of gender parity, which is a legitimate requirement of the european parliament. we have chosen these personalities on the basis of their competence, expertise, european commitment and independence. i will do the same with the executive directors, so that these three authorities have the necessary credibility and authority. ladies and gentlemen, this vote is important. i committed myself yesterday, and i confirmed it in front of you this morning with vice-president šefčovič, in a letter to president sharon bowles and president lehne, that we would give these three authorities the necessary manpower, financial and human resources to give them the necessary credibility and independence, and i understand that the presidency has made the same commitments. these three authorities have a considerable amount of work ahead of them, on stress tests, on rating agencies, on the texts you are discussing at the moment for the regulation of derivatives or short selling. there's no shortage of work. we know that markets move much faster than democracy. i have confidence in parliament at the time of this vote and i confirm the commitments the commission has made to ensure the independence, the means of work and the credibility of these three new authorities.
could the chair give the names of the people we voted for? because there was a secret ballot, but we don't know who we voted for.
mr. chairman, please! the dynamic development and technological progress in european countries unfortunately also have side effects. the huge increase in electronic waste is the most obvious example. we are replacing all kinds of electronic devices that we use regularly with new ones, and we are not taking the time to properly protect the old ones. this has a significant impact on the environment. i hope that the amendment of the e-waste collection and treatment regulations will allow for an increase in the recovery of valuable raw materials, which will bring economic benefits as well as environmental benefits. the high selective collection rate recommended by the environmental protection committee should have an impact on the retention and preparation for re-use of these raw materials. i agree with the need to stop the illegal export of e-waste outside the european union. i also expect restrictions on the illegal disposal of waste from one member state in another.
mr. chairman, please! recent events in both tunisia and egypt have captured the attention of the world. but the demonstrations of citizens against the entrenched regimes in these countries give hope for lasting change. the full support of democratic europe is essential for tunisia's peaceful transition. i also join the call of president buzek for all measures to be taken to ensure that fully democratic elections are held in the country and that a government of national unity is elected. i also support the call by the parliament's delegation for relations with the maghreb countries for an independent inquiry to establish the responsibility of the tunisian authorities for the use of violence and bloodshed. cooperation and the development of mutual partnerships with tunisia are in the interest of both european citizens and tunisians. that is why i voted today for a resolution setting out the prospects for this cooperation.
in writing. − electrical and electronic waste is disposed of in a completely different way: electrical waste is dismantled and then recycled, while electronic waste is usually chemically treated after initial dismantling. the two groups differ considerably in weight, which means that electrical waste raises the so-called 'collection rate', while electronic waste, rich in gold, silver and rare earth metals, often ends up in landfills. the advancement of electrical and electronic equipment is the increase in its life span, the reduction of unit weight through miniaturization, the reduction of energy consumption. this should be part of the innovation activities, including design that facilitates recovery. unfortunately, the provisions of this directive do not stimulate innovation and waste streams are increasing at an alarming rate. to do so, the manufacturer or importer should be charged the appropriate duty when placing the product on the market. the funds thus raised can be used by innovative smes, which are market-oriented in the recovery of secondary raw materials from waste. this directive places on the member states the administrative burden of organising the collection and further processing of highly varied and difficult to dispose of complex technical structures. these products enter the markets of these countries and there they must be subject to the laws of the market. unfortunately, the lack of proper use of market mechanisms for the disposal of waste products means that this project needs to be refined, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - fellow workers! i think we should demand stricter standards for the disposal of electronic and electrical equipment. the problem of waste management is not only a european union problem but a global one. the collection and transport of waste equipment should be selective in order to ensure optimal reuse, recycling and the reduction of hazardous substances, which is of the utmost importance from the point of view of citizens. it's good that we're dealing with this issue because it's been raised many times in our regions, in local governments. we need to talk about monitoring the problem, which is why i voted in favour of the report by karl-heinz florenz.
in writing. − currently, waste electrical and electronic equipment is the fastest growing waste stream in the european union. this fact raises several issues that require a prompt solution. first, we should consider the health and environmental consequences of improper disposal of such equipment. another challenge is to reduce the level of waste of raw materials (through recycling, the industry recovers valuable secondary raw materials) and the need to intensify the collection and proper treatment of waste. according to data collected by the european commission, 85% of e-waste is now collected. although as much as 65% of the equipment sold is subsequently collected, little more than 30% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is recovered in accordance with the requirements of the directive. therefore, it is clear that the rapporteur agrees that it is the responsibility of the member states to implement the directive correctly and to establish effective procedures for the control of the storage and treatment of waste equipment. member states, manufacturers of new equipment and consumers are undoubtedly jointly responsible for pursuing a high collection rate by any means possible. i voted in favour of the report, which aims to achieve a higher selective collection rate, to reduce the loss of used equipment and to prevent illegal movements, as well as proper high-level processing.
in writing. - the european parliament has been quick to take a position on the situation in tunisia, given the situation in the region as a whole. we stand in solidarity with the will of nations who want a better life, a better identity and a better tomorrow. we are witnessing the forced departure of authoritarian rulers. tunisia needs a wise partnership from us. we need to be systematically reinforced in our appreciation of the values to which we are devoted. we have a new external affairs service, which should make it easier. we must, together with tunisia, take account of developments in egypt and other countries in the region. i am pleased that we have adopted the common position of the five political groups.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the recent events in tunisia, i would like to express my solidarity with the people of that country. as the european union, we must support the tunisian people who, through protests and demonstrations, have freed themselves from years of rule and regained their freedom. at the same time, i would like to condemn the repression and violence of the security services against the demonstrators. i fully endorse the appeal made by the european union. unfortunately, the events in tunisia have once again exposed the weakness of the eu's foreign policy. the european external action service as well as the european commission should be called upon to take more concrete steps. in its joint external action, the union should pay greater attention to the protection of human rights and democracy. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in tunisia because i believe that the european union has an excellent opportunity to help build civil society in tunisia.
in writing. - i support this resolution, and especially its provisions on the very specific tools of influence on the systemic changes taking place in this country, which are in our hands. this is primarily about political support for the high representative's strongest possible engagement, the review of the eu's neighbourhood policy currently underway, the negotiation of a new action plan for tunisia for 2011-16, and the deployment of an eu observation mission, which would be a clear support for the forthcoming elections.
in writing. - fellow workers! although most european countries have tb vaccination, worldwide statistics are worrying. the number of people who are getting this disease tells us that in the 21st century, we need to do more than just provide information and prevent it, but above all, we need to increase funding for vaccines. it's the only way we're gonna contain this disease. that's why i voted yes. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the tb vaccination initiative. tropical diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and coma kill millions of people every year, mainly because of increased resistance to these diseases or lack of treatments, which is associated with the discontinuation of research simply because of lack of profitability. given that the global tb rate remains alarming, with four years to go before the mdgs are reached, we need to act now. health care in most developing countries is completely inadequate to meet the needs of the population. structural adjustment programmes in the 1990s contributed to the deterioration of the situation, leading to drastic budget cuts in the social sector. i believe that tb vaccination in developing countries should be carried out primarily in clinics and hospitals, and therefore public health care should be restored. governments must fulfil their obligation to provide public health care to all their people, which is a fundamental right recognized by the universal declaration of human rights.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 3 february 2011.
here are some of the remarks that were made at the opening of our session. our eyes are on the european union's southern neighbours today. the groundbreaking events of the past few days in egypt have breathed new life into the communities of the region. we admire their courage, determination and democratic aspirations. this approach has already brought about significant changes, which we fully support. we regret, however, that this was not without human casualties. we call on all governments in the region to open up to dialogue with their citizens. we want an end to any persecution of peaceful demonstrators and the lifting of the state of emergency that has been in place for years. we call for the restoration of full freedom of speech; the voice of the people must be heard. it is also an important task for the european union as a whole, for all of us. let us remember that in 1989 many european politicians were afraid of the changes in central and eastern europe, so let us not be afraid to be fully involved politically and economically. let us help our neighbours to realise their democratic aspirations so that they will and can finally live with dignity in their own countries and not be forced to emigrate. let us face this task together as a true community. (laughter) (applause) in the light of the developments in our southern neighbours, i would also like to point out that some countries of the european union are the destination for a significant number of migrants from that region. the union should act swiftly and collectively to support those member states experiencing an increased influx of refugees. it is also our common eu duty and our common eu responsibility. for your information, on february 12th, we celebrated the international day against the use of child soldiers. it is estimated that there are between 200,000 and 300,000 children directly involved in armed conflict in over 20 countries worldwide. the european parliament is actively involved in the fight against the shameful practice of using children in armed conflicts. in other news, we're getting some shocking data from iran. since the beginning of the year, three times as many people have been executed there as in the same period last year. the death penalty for political dissidents is a particular concern. i call on the iranian authorities to introduce a moratorium on the use of the death penalty and to remove it from the list of punishments in the country in the future.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 20 january 2011. the following changes are proposed: mondayunchangedtuesdaythe greens/european free alliance and the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe requested that a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy on the rule of law in russia be placed on the agenda for tuesday morning. i wanted to give mrs harms a say first on the motion. there you go, madam president.
a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy on the rule of law in russia is placed as the third item on the agenda for tuesday morning. the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions is tuesday, february 15th at 10:00 a.m. the deadline for amendments and joint motions for resolutions is wednesday, february 16th at 10:00 a.m. the deadline for the submission of amendments to joint applications is 11 a.m. on wednesday, 16 february. so, on wednesday, february 16th at 11:00 a.m., the admission of any additional motions and amendments will be closed. the vote will take place on thursday. ladies and gentlemen, i have a proposal for you, also related to tuesday. the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) has asked for a commission statement on the situation in lampedusa to be included on the agenda. this request is justified by colleague mario mauro, very please.
now we're going to settle on a title for this discussion. the socialist and democratic group proposes that the title of the debate should be 'european union measures to assist italy in relation to migration flows'. president schulz would like to propose an amendment, if i'm not mistaken.
i see. i see. the proposed title is: 'presentation by the european commission of the aid measures that can be directed to italy and other countries affected by the extraordinary wave of migration'. (parliament adopted the title) wednesdayunchangedthursdaythe europe of freedom and democracy group has asked for its oral question to the commission on the application of the european arrest warrant in the julian assange case to be placed on the agenda. who would like to comment on this motion?
the next item is the report by mrs evelyne gebhardt, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the implementation of the services directive (2006/123/ec) (2010/2053 (ini)) (a7-0012/2011).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her very good cooperation and her openness to compromise. i can say without hesitation that the services directive is the key to a well-functioning common market. without its proper implementation, we may forget delors' vision and many single market act initiatives will remain empty promises. i therefore strongly urge the member states, on behalf of my group in the european people's party, to make up for the backlog in implementation. in the post-crisis era, we need the services directive more than ever. the report we adopted at imco attaches great importance, and in my view the most important, to the individual contact points which are not yet functioning to the satisfaction of their users. in some cases, many procedures are still not available in electronic form. we want the contact points to be electronic, comprehensive contact centres with the authorities. however, we should not forget that the starting points differed in the member states. some were built on top of existing structures, and some were built from scratch. but we want them to help service providers in the same way in each of the member states. i therefore think it would be necessary for the commission to develop a set of best practices to help member states further work on single points of contact. finally, i would like to refer briefly to the recently published report on mutual evaluation. the imco report itself found that member states were not ambitious enough in simplifying the rules, often choosing to substitute one requirement for another. unfortunately, the report confirms these fears. we are still faced with situations where member states try to apply rules which sometimes seem to be unjustified by the provisions of the services directive. i hope that further work on the directive will be directed towards eliminating this phenomenon.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the introduction of a unified patent system has been discussed in europe for several years. economists and businessmen believe that its introduction would significantly reduce the cost of patent protection for businesses in the european union and provide cheap, effective and better protection. this is particularly important for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. the european commission's recommendations and proposals are also aimed in this direction. however, it is worth noting that some controversial proposals are being discussed in this case - and this has already been discussed in our chamber today - namely the issue of translations of patents by the european patent office, which are proposed to be made only into three languages. it's a matter of thinking and considering why these three languages and not others. this would give a certain advantage to entrepreneurs who use these languages as their mother tongue. i think that's worth thinking about.
mr. chairman, please! the european patent is intended to help innovation. why can't he benefit from innovation himself? we're talking about patent law, and we should also be looking at the optimal form of a patent. because we have short patents, we have long patents, and the last ones don't have to be better or better written. i think we need to create a form of patent, a description procedure, to make the best use of the internet and electronic recording methods, and therefore language. i think the cheapest one that doesn't require any translation into languages would be the european e-patent.
mr. chairman, please! a lot has been said today about the need for patents in europe and in our companies, and i join in that. without patented solutions, it will be harder for our companies to compete with the increasingly dynamic and innovative companies in emerging economies. however, we should not forget that enhanced patent cooperation is not the most beneficial solution from the point of view of the european single market. as a supporter of a strong common market, i prefer that barriers to trade be removed rather than created. i therefore appeal to all those involved in shaping patent regulation to find solutions that will benefit europe as a whole. i am thinking here mainly of language solutions which, in my view, should not be discriminatory towards people who do not speak french, german or english. i think that a one-language system would be the most beneficial solution.
in writing. – i am delighted that the council has agreed that 12 member states will use the enhanced cooperation mechanism to push ahead the creation of a unitary eu patent. this project has been on the table for more than 10 years and has regrettably been plagued by divisions among the member state governments. the lack of legal certainty and the high costs associated with the current system whereby patents have to be validated separately in each member state is strangling the internal market's potential for development, innovation and growth. currently it costs 10 times more to obtain a european patent that is valid in just half of the member states than in does in the usa. half of these costs are associated with translation. a more streamlined approach is essential for the union to remain competitive. this eu wide patent makes sense! i urge progress to be made in finalising the legal arrangements as soon as possible and express the hope that in future all member states will see the imperative of being part of this system.
in writing. we often talk about the progress and development of new technologies in this house, while patenting inventions in the european union is one of the most expensive in the world. the costs to the creators are too high and the procedures too complicated. there is also no doubt that the decision on the eu patent was blocked in the council. the lisbon treaty gives the right to establish enhanced cooperation in such a situation. the ideal situation would be to reach a compromise on patents at the level of all member states, but i think 20 years of waiting is long enough. i am aware that there are many concerns about the use of the enhanced cooperation mechanism. however, it should be borne in mind that certain conditions must be met in order to benefit from this scheme and that each application is examined on a case-by-case basis. i also believe that enhanced cooperation can be an instrument that opens the way to further negotiations with a greater guarantee of success. i would also like to stress that at the moment we are speaking only in the context of the procedure and not on any substantive issue. nothing is decided yet. we have a new round of negotiations ahead of us. this is just the beginning of the work on the structure of the eu patent and the highly controversial language regime. i therefore wish all of us a fruitful and persistent work so that the final result satisfies all parties concerned.
on behalf of the s&d group. nuclear energy, as well as the whole field of technology for the production of isotopes in experimental reactors for medical and other purposes, such as the production of measuring sensors and sterilisation, requires the development of appropriate safety standards. these include the use of safe food products, animal feed, and medicines after exposure to radiation. in today's world, the risk of a radiation event is small, but it should always be minimized. the reactor failures, including the chernobyl accident, greatly increased the criteria for protection against the effects of ionizing radiation, and as it was later found, these effects were much smaller than expected. there was also minimal contamination of the soil by radioactive fallout, which contributed to some increase in the radioactivity of forestry and agricultural food products harvested in the areas at risk. but what we have here is an overreaction, and an over-expansion of the evacuation zone. now abandoned villages in the contaminated zone in belarus are populated again. it even has what some experts call the beneficial effect of hormesis, that is, the healing effects of high-energy radiation below a certain dose threshold. however, it is the linear rather than the threshold approach to radiation exposure that has led to these quasi-administrative rather than scientific approaches to these issues. the logical consequence of this is to limit radiation exposure to even lower doses than the natural ones, that is, the ones we are always exposed to. this is economic nonsense. because on average, we're already taking in about 2.4 millisieverts a year, which adds up to about 200 millisieverts after we're about 70 years old. a medical examination is therefore required to assess the simultaneous effect of the dose of contamination resulting from the radiation event and the often much higher dose resulting from natural radiation, including that of volcanic origin. the former is mainly food and affects the thyroid gland (iodine), the bones (strontium), and the muscles (cephalothorax); the latter is skin and lungs (radon).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question we are asking ourselves is: 'how does the commission intend to help small businesses finance themselves to grow?' in the europe 2020 strategy, the commission promised to focus on growth based on knowledge and innovation. entrepreneurs who start new businesses and launch new ideas create jobs and growth: we must make sure that these companies have the necessary resources, including, of course, financing, particularly for innovation. in fact, i'll never get tired of saying it: there is no growth, there is no competitiveness if there is no innovation! first of all, the commission intends to put research and innovation at the centre of its proposals. as outlined in the green paper adopted by the european commission last week on the future financing of research and innovation, the commission will seek to simplify the management of these programmes by using common instruments. these common tools will simplify management and relations with our partners and will also serve to ensure greater transparency in the market. simplification and flexibility will therefore be the keywords of our future work, which aims to promote growth and support smes. community programmes and funding should be easily accessible to all european businesses, especially those with growth potential. to achieve this, i believe that the instruments for smes will have to be grouped into a community programme for growth and competitiveness, which takes account of the experience gained so far, in particular in order to anticipate the flexibility needed to respond to changes in markets and our economies in the next financial programming period. secondly, the commission intends to put the emphasis in its proposals on financial instruments, i.e. to move from a culture based on granting grants to non-profit making enterprises to one more geared towards loans to enterprises. this approach, of course, will favour those who come up with a reasonable business plan. the guarantees and risk capital investments provided for in the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip) are certainly a success story. these instruments have been very successful. so far we have helped over 100,000 smes and by the end of the programme we will have helped over 300,000. i would also like to point out that the first generation of venture capital investments in the union accounted for 98% of the capital invested, which is all the more significant when you consider that with just 2% of funding we have helped many european smes to grow. another important aspect is that these are not bureaucratic instruments. they are in fact available from banks and venture capital funds. we must not ask brussels for it. we know that smes appreciate the flexibility of these tools and the fact that they are easily accessible. i would also like to point out that the european council a few days ago called on the commission to set up a venture capital scheme at eu level. the commission intends to do so. we share the council's concern about the shortcomings of the venture capital markets. we are also fully aware of the usefulness of loan guarantee schemes which help a large number of small businesses. i can assure you that the commission is convinced that loan guarantees are necessary, both at european and regional level. that is why the commission will present a coherent set of instruments for smes. we therefore invite the member states, which are co-decision-makers in the use of the structural funds, to join us in this effort. that is what has been done with regard to future financial planning. i would like to point out, however, that the european commission has not been idle in the meantime. on 28 october i launched the sme finance forum, which aims to monitor the development of sme finance, promote best practice and encourage new solutions. this permanent forum brings together small and mediumsized enterprises and credit institutions on a regular basis. the market situation and the legal framework for access to finance for smes are examined. the way forward for the development of the european market for intermediate instruments was also discussed and i am pleased to inform you that we are making progress in this respect. finally, it is equally important to review the regulatory framework. and here i would like to thank in particular my colleague michel barnier, whose communication 'towards a single market act' proposes important initiatives to make our legislation more effective, including the single market for venture capital. that is our common objective: promote the single market and create the best conditions for growth, competitiveness and entrepreneurship. as regards the capital requirements of the 'basel iii' banks which also fall within the remit of commissioner barnier, the commission will adopt the legislative proposals in june 2011. the commission proposal will include a thorough assessment of the microeconomic and macroeconomic effects of these provisions, which will ensure that our proposals are well calibrated in terms of timing and impact, also taking into account what is happening in other parts of the world. finally, it is up to the budgetary authority, the european parliament and the council to decide how to use the limited resources available at european level. and in this time of financial constraints it is clear that it is becoming increasingly important to spend those resources better. i am convinced that the financial instruments will help to raise the resources of the european union and to mobilise private investment. you can be sure that the commission will continue to work to ensure that our proposals always focus on the importance of the development of smes for the future of europe, convinced as we are that all the work that will have to be done in the coming months to finally get out of the crisis, including the restructuring of large industries, will have to take into account the role that small and mediumsized enterprises can play, the only ones, in my opinion, that will be able to create new jobs, thus tackling the social aspects of the financial crisis that we have faced and of course they will represent an important stepping stone to start the new phase after the economic crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are talking about a sector of the economy that is absolutely crucial, because in fact small and medium-sized enterprises provide the most jobs in the european union as a whole. a lot more than the biggest companies. moreover, these small and medium-sized enterprises, often family-owned, have been the hardest hit by the economic crisis. i'll tell you what. the social costs of weakening this sector are absolutely fundamental. of course, perhaps the biggest companies and the biggest industrial lobbies are more effective in making their case, but we must defend small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are really defending the citizens and taxpayers of the member states of the european union. one note i would like to stress very strongly that the member states of the union should not put everything on the european union as such. they should be looking after these small and medium-sized businesses themselves, and they largely don't. i agree with what mrs herczog said.
mr. chairman, please! the main prerequisite for the success of the policy towards enterprises, including smes, is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the free movement of goods means that all businesses have access to a greater number of potential consumers, although they must also be prepared for more competition. the single market rules need to be continuously adapted to ensure equal treatment for all businesses in the union. it is necessary to control the stocks of member states to protect their domestic industry. we all say that smes are the foundation of modern european economies, that they are an essential element of economic growth, that they employ two-thirds of the people working in the union and generate one-third of gdp. it is important to remember that the difficult situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is reflected first of all in the standard of living and conditions of the people employed in them, since they are largely family businesses. then they collapse, and most of them are slower to respond to the crisis. that doesn't mean it doesn't affect their economic condition. finally, i would like to say that this sector requires special support for the implementation of innovative solutions and this should be supported by the european union.
in writing. access to finance for smes has been affected by the crisis in financial markets. it is particularly difficult to obtain financial support for start-ups or innovative companies whose activities are assessed as risky. the economic recovery will depend to a large extent on the development potential of small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for almost 99% of all economic operators. it therefore welcomes today's initiative to adapt the european union's instruments to support the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises in the next programming period. in particular, innovative companies should have access to new forms of financing. i also believe that simplifying administrative procedures and existing regulations will help to improve the efficiency of the management of european programmes for smes, and will also lead to significant savings for smes themselves, who will spend less time on administrative matters for the benefit of projects carried out by smes.
in writing. i welcome the draft resolution and the debate on the review of the european union's financial support instruments for smes. supporting smes is important because they are important for the present and the future of europe. smes are crucial to maintaining our competitiveness, to overcoming the crisis, to creating new jobs, to boosting the innovation of the european economy. financial support for smes is necessary, but the european union can and should also take other measures to support the sector. i mean, cutting red tape and red tape. smes must be able to operate more freely and more quickly. there are places in the united states where it takes 10 minutes to start a company. if we are to harness the entrepreneurial potential of europeans, we must make it easier for them to do business and free the european market from the constraints that prevent us from taking full advantage of the opportunities for growth that exist today. smes are creating an economic model that is very efficient and beneficial for social development. most of the poor and developing countries don't have this sector or it's very weak there. this is indirect evidence of the importance of this sector to the economy as a whole and to the quality of life in individual countries. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! in our recent debate on intercountry adoption, i would like to draw attention to the institution of foster care. it is an alternative to children's homes, a form of care for children waiting to be adopted or to solve problems in their natural families. surrogate care is an effective and desirable form of childcare and a special opportunity for socially disadvantaged children who are least likely to be adopted. we should encourage member states to implement legislative changes to improve the functioning of both traditional forms of family substitute care and of multi- and specialised family substitute care, and to provide adequate financial support for them. the associations of surrogate families could be involved in the development of proposals for the most desirable legal solutions in this area. in addition, foster parents need to establish real working teams of parents, carers and guardians to help and support each other in their upbringing. it is equally important to promote the idea of surrogate families in society in general, so that the number of surrogate families increases, that they are respected and recognized, and that the enormous contribution they make to the upbringing of children is appreciated.
mr. chairman, please! worldwide, about 1 billion people are chronically undernourished or hungry. in 2008, food prices rose sharply, causing famine riots in some 30 countries around the world. now food prices are approaching those of 2008. the global economic crisis has also contributed to this, making it all the more necessary to look for ways of distributing food equitably on a global scale. unfortunately, the european union forgets that the common agricultural policy is first and foremost a policy to ensure that all european consumers are provided with food of good quality at an affordable price. the continued elimination of market regulation instruments, including cereal stocks, at a sufficiently high level cannot be allowed to continue. it is also necessary to eliminate speculative activities in this market, it is reprehensible and immoral that capital groups in pursuit of greater profits, distorting the rules of the free market, condemn to starvation millions of people around the world.
mr. chairman, please! all road transport operators, both passenger car manufacturers and light commercial vehicles manufacturers, should contribute to reducing overall co2 emissions. i therefore welcome the compromise reached by the european parliament, the council and the european commission on emission limits and penalties for non-compliance. setting mandatory, ambitious and realistic limits is a challenge for the innovative potential of the european automotive industry. it will encourage the intensification of research and development to develop new design solutions for greener vehicles. we need to have our own green technologies, so we don't have to import them like we did with hybrid technology. i believe that the legislative decisions we have taken will be a suitable and mobilizing stimulus for european manufacturers who see their growth opportunities in green technologies.
mr. chairman, please! production and technology issues for light commercial vehicles require much greater investment and a longer-term strategic plan and production cycle than the same issues for passenger cars. in this respect, it was necessary to agree to such a long-term objective in order to provide the industry with a guarantee and production certainty. on the other hand, we should not underestimate the 147 grams as the target trial for 2020. starting from a threshold of 175 grams (a short-term target) with a view to reaching the 147 grams target by 2020 will significantly increase the cost of producing light commercial vehicles, making them more expensive for many small businesses that use them as tools in their daily work. i hope that this will not result in a sharp decline in new car sales, which will leave older cars with much higher emissions on the road for longer.
madam president! today the european parliament is sending a very positive signal to passengers, taxpayers and european voters who use buses and coaches, including people with disabilities. and that's the kind of concrete decisions that those who vote for us, who pay our salaries, expect us to make. of course, we've heard voices here that this is not the most important issue in the world. i guess not. but i think it is a very important step forward, which makes europe, the european union, more human, more open to the needs, not of politicians, but of consumers, of those who use the means of communication. i would like to thank my neighbour, the rapporteur, mr cancian, for his good work.
in writing. i support the legislative resolution on the joint text of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on passenger rights in bus and coach transport and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 approved by the conciliation committee. given the steady growth of this transport sector, i believe it is important to establish eu-wide passenger protection rights comparable to those existing in other modes of transport, and to ensure a level playing field for carriers from different member states and different modes of transport. given that these rights focus in particular on the needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, this initiative should be supported. a very important element of the resolution is the establishment of rights to compensation for passengers injured in bus accidents. as a result of these provisions, passengers are entitled to compensation for death, personal injury and loss of or damage to luggage as a result of accidents.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'd like to congratulate mr. cancian on his job. i'm glad we finally reached an agreement in the conciliation committee. our main achievements are, of course, the issue of passengers' rights to compensation and assistance in the event of accidents, guarantees for passengers in the event of cancellations and delays, and the guarantee of rights for disabled persons and passengers with reduced mobility (prm). i am particularly pleased to see the above mentioned inclusion of prm - passengers with reduced mobility, but i also have a legitimate concern about this: in the case of air passengers, neither airlines nor airports know exactly which passengers are prm. because of this ignorance, it is common for carriers and airports to refuse to help mothers and fathers traveling alone with small children. i would therefore like to make an appeal: our work will not end with the adoption of the document in plenary. we are also obliged to monitor whether the regulation is being properly applied.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his hard work and his outstanding efficiency. until now, passenger transport by bus and coach has not provided adequate protection for passengers, being the only form of transport not subject to any eu regulations in this field. the changes will, among other things, allow passengers to obtain compensation in the event of an accident. the issue of the carrier's guarantee of assistance to disabled persons is also of great importance, and in the case of a guarantee at the carrier's expense, an accompanying person may be taken. i do not conceal that it was a very special challenge for me personally to be able, for the first time in history, to take an active part in the conciliation procedure under the lisbon treaty, when, in the course of negotiations in the late hours of the night, mr cancian and i managed to reach a compromise on the application of the rules beyond 250 km. it is important to note that the regulation guarantees 12 fundamental rights, especially for disabled people. the issue we should be putting a lot of emphasis on now is the right information campaign so that the citizens of the european union are aware of the rights they have from now on.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy on the rule of law in russia. i would urge you to take the floor on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative, ms enikő győri.
dear colleague, this is a discussion on russia. the item on the agenda is the situation in russia. i am sorry, but we cannot change the topic in the middle of the discussion.
mr. chairman, please! like many colleagues who have spoken before me, i subscribe to this self-evident statement that russia is a strategic partner for the european union, both in the geopolitical dimension and in the dimension of international security, as well as in the economic dimension. no wonder we are so interested in the situation of our most important neighbor. meanwhile, there are some very disturbing trends emerging. the last social studies i would like to cite say that only 3% of russians think that they have influence on the political life of their country, 61% think that they cannot effectively defend their rights, and 82% think that state actors do not respect the law established in russia. this is a sad picture of the situation in a country whose development we care so much about, but development only in the economic dimension, economic modernization should not in the least exhaust european-russian relations. human rights, the rule of law, is also an important area that we should focus on, as we should with our other neighbours, including belarus.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. dmitry medvedev, at the beginning of his term, promised russians "the rule of law" and full democracy. the russian president is, i think, aware that his country is having difficulty building a democratic state of law and creating a modern economy that responds to global challenges. recent events in russia, in particular the numerous attacks on journalists and representatives of independent ngos, and the judgment in the case of mikhail khodorkovsky, have raised questions about whether the beautiful demands are based on a real understanding of human rights and fundamental freedoms. russia's adherence to its international obligations is also a matter of controversy. the unresolved conflicts in the regions of nagorno-karabakh, transnistria, abkhazia and south ossetia should be resolved as soon as possible, in accordance with international law and russia's commitments. russia should unconditionally implement all provisions of the 2008 agreement between russia, the european union and georgia. in particular, representatives of the european union monitoring mission in georgia (eumm georgia) must be guaranteed unrestricted access to the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia in order to guarantee peace and stability in those regions.
madam president! the development of the european services market is a very important element in stimulating economic growth in the european union. it is therefore very good that the european parliament is looking closely at the way in which the services directive is being implemented. further action is also needed to support the proper development of the european services market. our overriding objective was to facilitate the provision of services throughout europe. we are therefore concerned that some of the member states are showing a willingness to establish and apply legislation which is in no way justified by the provisions of the directive. this creates artificial barriers to the activities of service providers. today, as many as 90% of new jobs are created in the service sector. i therefore believe that the smooth functioning of the directive is a necessary condition for the development of the single market. it is a key project for the european economy. it is therefore welcome to see the emergence of measurable effects of the directive, such as the huge number of notifications of legislative changes coming from member states.
madam president! a compromise has been reached on commercial vehicles and their emission standards between the commission, the industry committee and the environment committee of the european parliament, which reduces this emission standard from 203 grams per kilometre to 147 grams over 10 years. the new emission standard introduced is acceptable to manufacturers, users and is important from the point of view of the costs borne by the user due to the increase in the prices of these vehicles. this user group is mainly small and mediumsized enterprises, craft or family businesses; it was at this session that we discussed the european union's instruments for financial support to small and mediumsized enterprises. one of these is to reduce the barriers to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. we hope that the cost increase of this lightweight vehicle fleet due to the reduction of emissions, the cost increase of their production will not be one of the significant barriers. in 2014, we will have the opportunity to see if the assumptions of this regulation have been successfully implemented.
madam president! for more than 20 years, we have been discussing the creation of a single patent protection system in the european forum. the current patent registration system, which is very complex and, unlike the us system, time-consuming and costly, is very useless for european entrepreneurs. patents play a significant role in shaping and developing the modern economy and in supporting scientific research. in the face of increasing competition on world markets, we cannot afford to delay any further in taking a decision on this matter. it is therefore necessary to step up work on the creation of a single patent market. but in supporting this idea, we cannot ignore the many controversies that arise, for example, over language. it is therefore essential to prevent discrimination against smaller, less numerous and often poorer member states.
madam president! the current arrangements for patent protection in the union and in the member states have not satisfied anyone. the introduction of a uniform system of patent protection is essential both for the economies of our member states and for the union as a whole. in particular, the new system should encourage research and innovation. the introduction of a relatively simple system, unified in the form of a 'yes' and 'no' based on three languages, and spoken in one or more languages, with translation into the applicant's mother tongue, is an important step. this will be particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. many of them do not have sufficient financial resources to conduct patent proceedings. i hope this is an important step in stimulating this group of small and medium-sized enterprises that we often refer to as the sleeping innovators. we talk about this a lot, particularly in the industry committee, how exactly to encourage this group of companies to innovate, but also to patent their own inventions. we want this new regulation to stimulate both small and medium-sized enterprises themselves, but also to better protect patent achievements in the european union.
madam president! the legislation on the protection of foodstuffs against radioactive contamination was created after the chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. it's a very important, but also a very difficult subject, particularly in terms of public health. the implementation of the lisbon treaty requires updating of these regulations, among others, although there is a dispute between the european commission and parliament's proposals as to the legal basis. the parliament refers to article 168 (4) of the lisbon treaty, while the commission refers to article 31 of the euratom treaty. it is important to state the need to protect consumers, but it also emphasises the need to protect farmers who should be compensated for the losses suffered as a result of the accident. the discussion also revealed wide differences in the assessment of possible risks, including the level of radiation from accidental or natural sources. it should also be noted that the eu market is increasingly dominated by imports of agricultural products and foodstuffs from around the world, where public health standards, including the protection of foodstuffs from radioactive contamination, must be respected.
in writing. - i welcome the results of the vote. i am convinced that any action which leads to the equal treatment of citizens of all the member states of the community deserves our support. i am all the more pleased when equal rights are concerned with such important issues as the free movement of persons across national borders. for me, a pole who remembers the many difficulties in crossing borders before poland joined the european union, every step forward in the introduction of full, mutual visa abolition is of great importance. the report by mrs macovei is also important for another reason: in the explanatory memorandum to the recommendation, the rapporteur mep notes that two other countries, namely canada and the united states, still maintain a visa requirement for three member states for the first and four for the second. i believe that the recent actions of parliament, such as written declaration 89/2010, will have the intended effect and will lead to a change in the visa policy of the united states and canada.
in writing. − services in the single market still face a number of constraints, which is why this report, which analyses the implementation of the solutions adopted, is important. the services directive aims at the full realisation of the single internal market for services. it is also intended to be a major facilitator for small and medium-sized enterprises to start and expand their activities. it will help create new jobs, help fight unemployment. the services offered to citizens will be of better quality and at more competitive prices, and the level of security in this sector will increase. however, it will be important to assess the impact of the directive once it has been fully implemented by the member states. the ep should play an important role in monitoring this process as one of the key actors in the project. the rapid and correct implementation of the directive is an essential condition for the achievement of the objectives of cohesion and regional policy and can contribute to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, aiming at eliminating the current fatigue of the single market in the services sector.
in writing. − i strongly endorse the gebhardt report. the services directive implementation deadline passed a year ago, and i welcome the fact that parliament is shining the spotlight on member states' progress. the services sector accounts for a large share of the eu's gdp, yet the cross-border trading of services still falls well short of the level of trade in goods. this report shows that implementation is incomplete and that the full benefits of the directive have not yet been reaped by citizens. the points of single contact (pscs) in each member state, which inform service providers of rights and opportunities in other eu member states, are an important provision of the directive. in my view, the crucial issue raised by this report is the huge under-use of these pscs. i firmly support the proposal that an effective information campaign be led to raise the visibility of pscs. the commission should earmark funds for a promotional campaign. however, i also underline the role to be played by authorities on the ground in the member states who have the contacts and expertise needed to ensure this campaign is well targeted. unless this is done, the union's efforts to foster the cross-border trading of services will be in vain.
in writing. − on tuesday 15 february 2011, the european parliament adopted a report which will bring about the long-awaited result of equal rights for passengers in all transport modes. strengthening the rights of passengers travelling by regular buses refers to: loss of luggage, loss of personal belongings, death, loss of health, adverse consequences due to the fault of the carrier, etc. the advantage is that it is a regulation that regulates passenger rights throughout the european union. it should be emphasised that the needs of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility are specified in the fundamental rights. the regulation is intended to ensure non-discriminatory access to transport. the regulation also regulates the liability of passengers and the consequences of passengers' negligence which may result in the loss of the possibility of claiming compensation. in view of the above, i voted in favour of a regulation which is well prepared and which complements the whole of the regulation of passenger rights in the european union.
in writing. - the regulation on passenger rights in bus and coach transport is a perfect example of the european parliament's concern for consumer rights. after difficult negotiations with the council of the european union, we have adopted a text which concerns the last mode of transport in which passenger rights have not yet been regulated by eu law. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the compromise route has been established at a distance of over 250 kilometers. passengers on such routes will enjoy a number of facilities and rights similar to those of air travel. when my baggage is lost at the airport or my flight is delayed, eu law is clear about my rights in such situations. until now, bus and coach passengers have been in a much worse situation. today, among other things, they will be able to claim compensation for delays and damage to luggage, and the disabled will receive special assistance. a passenger charter will be created to increase citizens' awareness of what they can expect from a carrier. it will be a set of basic rights for every passenger, no matter how far they travel. this is an example of good legislation that is directed at the citizen. this regulation strengthens consumer rights and strengthens the common market, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − during the legislative process, i submitted numerous amendments to the design for new light commercial vehicles, which aimed to reduce the original carbon dioxide emission figures and to increase the time to reach the target. i welcome the fact that my amendments have been taken into account. i believe that, as it stands, the regulation will contribute to reducing carbon emissions. the industry has a chance to adapt its designs and introduce the appropriate regulations within a certain time. the n1 category is used by small businesses that are sensitive to price increases and are increasingly present on the market. the regulation will not place an excessive cost burden on them. the regulation provides for rewards in the form of credits for the best producers who are ahead of the curve in terms of emission standards. companies that fail to make the adjustments in time will face penalties that will not be passed on to the pockets of users. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? it is not every day that we have the opportunity to discuss a subject as important as the one that klaus lehne's opinion on the european union patent concerns. that's why i'm so glad to have the opportunity to speak in the debate. firstly, it is important to note that we are currently at a very early stage of the enhanced cooperation procedure. only after the european parliament has delivered its opinion will the council be able to give its formal consent to take action. so anything is still possible, namely: it is possible to amend the proposals for regulations proposed by the european commission. without going into detail about the proposed regulations on patents themselves and the language regime, i would like to say that in implementing this great european project we must take into account the interests of all european entrepreneurs, both those who patent inventions and those who want easy access to technical information about them. i mean, for example, generic drug companies. as a strong supporter of the european patent and a member from poland, which is unfortunately more of a 'recipient' than a 'donor' of patents today, i will try to make the patent debate as wide as possible and to include the voices of all, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, who are essential to an innovative european economy.
in writing. − the european patent is supposed to help us develop innovation, and why can't we benefit from innovation by discussing it ourselves? shame on you. we're talking about patent law here, but let's also talk about determining the optimal form of a patent. because we have short patents and we have long patents, and the long patents don't need to be better written. often the description is intentionally complicated in order to confuse and complicate the form of the patent. i think we need to create a transparent form of patent, a procedure for its description, so that we can make good use of the internet and electronic recording methods. it's also a language. there's an algorithm that can do that. i think the cheapest, least-translated option would be a european e-patent. maybe the commission will start thinking innovatively. i voted in favour, although i think the commission is showing too little initiative in this matter.
in writing. − after more than a decade, the work on the single european patent is finally coming to an end. although the success is only partial, as the single patent protection system will not cover the whole of the european union, it is undoubtedly a major step forward. simplifying registration procedures and substantially reducing their costs, even if only covering 12 member states, will help develop the internal market and stimulate scientific and technical progress throughout the union. the legal harmonisation achieved in a limited area will in fact affect all eu traders, as investors established in non-participating member states will also be able to benefit from unitary patent protection. it will be up to them to decide whether they want protection under the legal order of one or several countries, or whether they want to use the single european patent. i believe that we must continue to work towards extending the scope of unitary patent protection so that it eventually covers the whole of the european union. this will not only benefit individual businesses but also the competitiveness of the european market vis-à-vis other large economies such as the united states, china and japan.
in writing. - the regulations being prepared today are of enormous economic importance for the european union, for its single market. the chernobyl disaster has shown that linear extrapolation of the radiation hazard leads to unnecessary economic losses. in belarus and ukraine, areas comparable to many countries have been depopulated. now belarusians are returning to these areas where the radioactivity is equal to that of the center of warsaw (sic!), while about 8 million ukrainians, the so-called "chernobyl victims", benefit from pensions that are already too low to sustain themselves, and some of them do not think about returning for fear of losing these meager compensations. this is an important experience from which the european union should draw lessons. in the former soviet union, it was easy to resettle people and it was done after the disaster efficiently. we don't know what it's like in a densely populated part of europe. who would be responsible for that? as regards financial compensation, it should concern farmers in particular, who may lose not only their harvests but also the possibility of farming for many years. the same, though to a lesser extent, applies to forests. it is known that the polluter pays. but what happens to liability and payment when radioactive fallout arrives from third countries? who's gonna take care of this? the eu, of course. that's why i voted to accept.
in writing. − radioactive contamination is a danger to human health and our role as meps is to do everything we can to ensure that the food we deliver to consumers is safe and healthy. we should therefore be prepared to respond quickly and effectively to emergencies, while continuously updating and adapting our legislation to the state of the art and technological progress. it is necessary to simplify procedures and to transfer competence to member states, which will be able to respond effectively to the situation. in such a case, the determination of the limit for the concentration of radioactive substances appears to be crucial for public safety and the environment.
in writing. − radiological accidents can occur wherever radioactive materials are used, stored or transported, not only in nuclear power plants but also in hospitals, universities, research laboratories, industrial plants, roads, railways, ports and shipyards. the rapporteur rightly points out that the effects of radioactive substances can be spread over many years and that the primary objective should always be to protect human life and health. today, more and more food is being irradiated to prolong its shelf life. it is worth noting that irradiation destroys up to 90% of vitamin a in chickens, 86% of vitamin b in oats and 70% of vitamin c in fruit juices. the extension of the shelf life of foodstuffs is therefore at the expense of their nutritional value. studies show that irradiation kills bacteria, but it does not kill viruses, remove dirt, or remove toxins that may have entered the meat in unsanitary and unsterile slaughterhouses and meat processing plants. irradiation also contributes to the massive, costly, and wasteful transportation of food, especially by large corporations. food produced and consumed locally does not require irradiation. i am convinced that member states should maintain and continuously improve and verify food and feed control systems against maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination as indicated by the rapporteur.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the adoption of the treaty amendments. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no question-and-answer procedure in this debate. but we know very well that this is a very important debate and that is why we attach great importance to it.
the next speaker on the list is mr martin schulz, from whom i have received a letter. if there is any misunderstanding over the order on the list i can explain it after our debate.
madam president! the draft resolution of parliament, which is being discussed in the context of the consultation process conducted by the european commission, deserves support. the resolution recommends that the member states should strengthen their coordination and exchange best practice without interfering with the member states' competences in this very important and sensitive area of pension systems. in the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs, i stressed the importance of demographic phenomena for security and the future shape of pension systems. it is therefore of the utmost importance that all measures be taken to overcome the demographic crisis in europe. i also believe that the assessment of pension systems and the formulation of conclusions should take into account the considerable diversity of individual member states both in terms of financial capacity and in terms of the existing public pension schemes.
madam president! demographic change, longer life spans and declining birth rates, the different benefits of pension systems and the economic crisis have put member states' public finances under enormous pressure. we are increasingly asking ourselves how stable and secure our current pension systems are and how they provide a decent retirement income. we conclude that reforms of pension systems within the competence of individual member states are necessary in europe. these are very time-consuming and expensive processes. in order for governments to take such steps, it is necessary for the council and the european commission to ensure that the costs of these reforms are taken into account on a permanent basis when implementing the excessive deficit procedure. any other solution could lead to a situation where countries, fearing the financial burden, abandon reforms. i would like to refer to two key aspects of the necessary reforms. first, to ensure the security of pension systems, we need to diversify revenue streams and create systems based on, among other things, public funding from capital markets and employee pension schemes. secondly, to ensure the stability of the systems, a high level of labour market activity should be ensured. member states should aim to align the effective retirement age with the statutory age and, where necessary, consider increasing the statutory retirement age, as a natural consequence of europeans living longer. however, prolonging work should be linked to appropriate labour market reforms, including provision of adequate training and healthcare for workers. i congratulate and thank the rapporteur for her help and excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report.
madam president! the debate on pension systems in some european union countries and the social emotions that accompany it show how important and difficult this is. it is not possible to adopt a single pension model that would apply in all countries of the european union. however, in times of economic crisis and demographic change, reforms of national pension systems are becoming inevitable. many countries are already struggling with rising pension costs, and this may undermine the principle of solidarity between generations. but we must remember that pensions must be secure, secure and pay our wages. and in this context, i would like us to pay more attention to the gender pay gap, because lower wages for women result in lower pension benefits.
in writing. we all know that there is no perfect model of a pension system. each country has developed its own solutions and plans for future reforms. despite the significant differences between the different systems, i believe that the european union should set a common direction for change for all member states. as has been repeatedly emphasised in committees, the financial and economic crisis of recent years has highlighted the urgency of reforming pension systems. the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity oblige us to strengthen cooperation between member states in this field. sharing experiences will help us avoid wasting time duplicating solutions that have already failed in another country, and sharing best practice will allow us to develop best strategies in an efficient way. remember that reforms cannot be limited to raising contributions or extending the period of contributions. budgetary stability, cross-border coordination of pensions, the development of minimum guarantees and gender equality are just some of the issues that should be considered in each member state. a balanced system based on interdependent and complementary pillars, covering public, labour and private, as well as capital and non-capital, should be developed across europe. i believe that this will ensure stable and equitable pension systems, while maintaining flexibility to adapt to progressive social and economic changes.
in writing. i welcome the inclusion on today's agenda of the report on the commission's green paper on adequate, stable and secure pension systems in europe. the issue of future pensions, their security and amount, is one of the most important social problems today. although the member states are responsible for shaping pension systems and the european union is not in principle empowered to act in this area, there is a need to develop some legal solutions related to pension systems at the european level. it is very important for the economic security of pensioners that the commission should draw up guidelines for the governments of the member states to set minimum levels of pensions or criteria for calculating pension benefits which would eliminate the disparity between pension benefits for women and men. women are, by their own admission, condemned to lower pensions than men because of the difference in pay for the same work or the need to take time off work to care for children and the consequent lower contributions paid for the whole period of work. therefore, in the face of threats to the stability of pension systems, the commission should not forget to seek to introduce legal arrangements that ensure equal treatment between men and women in the amount of future pensions throughout the union.
madam president! according to the world health organization, about 10 percent of the global pharmaceutical market is made up of counterfeit medicines. however, it is difficult to estimate the scale of the phenomenon in individual eu countries, for example in poland in 2009 alone, customs officers seized more than 100 thousand counterfeit products. the problems patients face are along with fake medicines lack of reliable information on the contents of the packaging, and the issue of repackaging, during which the contents may change. it is also very important for the patient to be able to obtain reliable information on the internet. unfortunately, along with much of the truth, there is also a lot of false information. in this context, it is important to establish a system of monitoring and control of medicinal products that provides reliable information to the patient. however, we are aware that even the best regulation will not have the desired effect if it does not provide for appropriate penalties for those who introduce counterfeit medicines. that's why it's so important to have this debate today and to have legislation that not only blocks the distribution of counterfeit medicines, that has a system of controls, but that, above all, imposes criminal sanctions on the manufacturers of counterfeit medicines. only such action will reduce the number of falsified medicinal products and increase their safety. finally, i would like to congratulate rapporteur matias on her excellent report. i realize it won't solve all of our problems, but it's a big step forward in improving patient safety.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. counterfeit medicinal products and illicit trafficking in medicinal products are global problems in both developed and developing countries, and the scale of the phenomenon is increasing, posing a threat to the safety and life of patients. this is due, inter alia, to the fact that falsified medicinal products and medicinal products sold in unauthorised places do not meet the quality requirements laid down for medicinal products, containing unauthorised substances with unknown consequences for use. i agree that this problem requires effective and enhanced international coordination and cooperation to ensure an effective strategy against falsified medicines. i fully support the adoption of measures to minimise the marketing of falsified medicinal products, as well as the marketing of medicinal products sold in unauthorised places and other falsified products meeting the criteria for a medicinal product. attention should be paid to the need to regulate the shipping and online distribution of medicinal products. according to the world health organization, counterfeit medicines are available online and account for about 50% of the products on offer. i consider it important to plan and implement actions to share information on falsified medicines, medicines from illegal sources and to carry out public education campaigns on the risks of purchasing medicines from unauthorised places. i also believe that it is appropriate to establish safeguards to enable the identification, authenticity and traceability of medicinal products.
in writing. the counterfeiting of medicinal products is a global problem and should be addressed in this context. the causes of this are related to high drug prices, low patient awareness, but to a large extent also have a legal nature. criminal groups around the world are taking advantage of this situation. i therefore welcome the joint efforts of both the eu institutions and the almost unified position of all political groups on this issue to work out a compromise legislative act in this area. i would like to quote the words of the former secretary general of interpol, ronald noble, who put together the figures for terrorism and counterfeit medicines: in 45 years, terrorists have killed 65,000 people, counterfeit medicines have killed 200,000 people in china alone. i think that the emphasis on monitoring, control activities, tightening up standards, establishing a system of mutual recognition are good starting points. as vice-president of the envi committee, i also want to emphasise the role of patient information activities and the obligation to pharmaceutical companies to do so. patients should have access to high quality, objective information on how medicines are prescribed and their properties.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to thank you for your answer, but i think you have not addressed a fundamental question: whether we have any idea what market share a new apple product might have in europe. because your answer was a pretty general answer that it's still being investigated. but i think we need to know if there is a real threat that it will become a dominant player in the european market.
mr. chairman, please! we don't need to convince anyone of the importance of energy to developing countries. i have often witnessed people being surprised to learn what the electricity prices are in africa. and it's not hard to see why the world bank's role in developing countries' energy needs is significant. my group, the epp, has tabled several motions for a resolution on the resolution we are discussing. we feel that in some places the resolution is too critical of the world bank. i do not think, for example, that we can point out to the bank which types of energy are considered by that institution to be clean and which should be considered to be environmentally unsound or undesirable. nuclear energy, for example, is widely used in the european union, and european countries that depend on coal or gas are somewhat disadvantaged, because they have to reduce emissions, which generates costs that are very unevenly distributed across the member states. therefore, care must be taken in indicating to outsiders which types of energy should be developed. i do, however, agree that it is worthwhile to support local projects, covering small areas, that it is worthwhile to support low-carbon projects, that it is worthwhile to support the idea of diversifying energy sources and avoiding energy dependence. we would like the world bank to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency, but we still have to keep in mind the ultimate goal, which is how access to energy would help people get out of poverty. we want to make a few mistakes in one fire create the conditions for growth, reduce emissions, and take social and environmental aspects into account in new energy projects. these are ambitious tasks, and i would like the world bank not to be afraid of them. at the same time, i know that commissioner pielbags is putting a lot of emphasis on developing energy projects in developing countries, and i can confirm that the green paper is talking about this and that the european parliament should support this strategy.
the vote in yesterday's plenary session announced the interpretation of rules 56 and 50 of parliament's rules of procedure adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs at its meeting on monday 14 february 2011. since no objection was raised under rule 211 (4), the interpretation is deemed to be accepted. as a result, the vote on mrs mathieu's report on the procedure for the joint application for a residence and work permit will be removed from the agenda of the current part-session. the matter has been widely discussed and here is the explanation of the rules and the principles of our work.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on croatia's progress report for 2010. i met with the prime minister of croatia yesterday. i was also joined by two representatives of our important institutions, mr hannes swoboda, the rapporteur, and gunnar hökmark, the head of our permanent delegation to croatia. we talked about croatia's progress on its way to the european union. i am very pleased that we can now speak directly, with all our colleagues, about the negotiations and the future of croatia in the european union. i am also pleased to have with us commissioner füle, who is responsible for our neighbourhood policy. i now call mr jános martonyi to speak on behalf of the council. the minister and the hungarian presidency attach great importance to the enlargement to croatia and this is therefore an important point in the hungarian presidency. please, minister.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on behalf of the presidency of the european union, may i say that it is a particular pleasure for me to address the plenary sitting of the european parliament today. this meeting provides a timely opportunity to review progress on croatia’s accession process and present the hungarian presidency’s plans for this first semester of the year. first and foremost, i would like to welcome parliament’s active engagement with the enlargement process, and its constructive contribution to the general debate on enlargement and on croatia’s accession process in particular. as we have underlined several times, enlargement reinforces peace, democracy and stability in europe, serves the european union’s strategic interests and helps the eu to better achieve its policy objectives in important areas which are key to economic recovery and sustainable growth. enlargement is a key driver for political and economic reform. it moves forward at a pace which is largely determined by the candidate country’s respect of the copenhagen criteria and its capacity to take on the obligations of membership. enlargement is one of the main priorities of our presidency, and our work during this semester will be to advance the policy in line with the renewed consensus on enlargement adopted by the european council in december 2006, as well as with the council conclusions of 14 december 2010, which have been endorsed by the european council. with regard to croatia, conclusion of the accession negotiations, as stated in the conclusions of the european council, is within reach, and our goal is to conclude the negotiations by the end of the hungarian presidency – provided of course that croatia completes the remaining benchmarks for closing the negotiating chapters. we would also like to finalise the accession treaty as far as possible, thereby paving the way to croatia’s accession to the eu which we look forward to. therefore, as highlighted in your resolution, this semester will be crucial for croatia’s negotiating process. let me now speak very briefly about the outstanding issues. so far, since the start of negotiations, 34 of the 35 chapters have been opened for negotiation, of which 28 have been provisionally closed. we are therefore very close to the conclusion of the negotiations. however, we still have to close a couple of difficult chapters such as competition, agriculture and rural development, fisheries, regional policy and coordination of structural instruments, the judiciary and fundamental rights, and financial and budgetary provisions, some of them of course with budgetary implications. in the council conclusions on croatia adopted last december, we highlighted key issues that require further work in these areas. you have been informed of them. we would also like to underline some points which are duly reflected in your resolution. the council has noted that encouraging progress has been made by croatia in many areas, including the rule of law and the fight against high-level corruption. at the same time, it is clear that further efforts are required. these concern judicial independence and efficiency and the fight against corruption at all levels. the council also encouraged croatia to step up its efforts to fulfil the remaining benchmarks, including the building of convincing track records, in particular as regards competition policy, as well as the judiciary and fundamental rights. in this regard, let me underline the importance we attach to the monitoring process in the alignment with – and implementation of – the acquis, with a view to ensuring administrative capacity and to building a convincing track record. in particular, the commission’s assessment of progress in the field of the judiciary and fundamental rights in march will be very important as regards the possible closing of chapter 23 later in the semester. moreover, on the international criminal tribunal for former yugoslavia (icty), the council noted croatia’s generally good cooperation with icty, while reiterating that full cooperation remains essential, in line with the negotiating framework. now that the interagency task force has started to explore important new avenues, the council has called on croatia to continue the administrative investigation in order to account for the missing military documents. in addition, the council welcomed croatia’s active role in regional cooperation as well as the improvement in its relations with neighbouring countries and its efforts aimed at reconciliation in the region. the entry into force of the arbitration agreement on the border issue with slovenia at the end of november was a very welcome development in this regard. bearing in mind the importance of good neighbourly relations, the council has encouraged croatia to build on this progress in its efforts towards resolving all outstanding bilateral and regional issues in cooperation with the countries concerned. in conclusion, let me reiterate that there is still a lot to be done during our presidency. croatia should spare no effort to fulfil the remaining benchmarks, to maintain and improve what has already been achieved and, in line with the negotiating framework, to conclusively address all other obligations still outstanding. for our part, it goes without saying that we count upon the support and cooperation of all member states, of the european commission and, of course, first and foremost, of the european parliament, in this endeavour. it is essential to keep up this momentum in order to conclude the negotiations successfully, as underlined among the priorities of the hungarian presidency until the end of june, i.e. until the end of our presidency.
the neighbourhood policy is very important for the european union, the mediterranean region, the eastern partnership and, first and foremost, the western balkans. i will now give the floor to the commissioner responsible for that policy.
mr. chairman, please! we should certainly support the hungarian presidency in its ambitious plans to conclude negotiations with croatia by the middle of this year. with croatia's membership of the european union, we are gaining an important, constructive ally who already plays a very stabilising, important role in the region and is an example for many balkan countries who are thinking about the prospect of joining the european union as well. today i would like to express my great respect and appreciation for the reforms undertaken by the croatian government, the croatian society, especially those in the area of the fight against corruption, organized crime, reforms in the area of public administration and the judiciary. of course, there are still some things that need to be improved and completed. i wish it could happen as soon as possible. of course, there is also some information coming from croatia that the croatian public is not fully satisfied that membership will benefit their country. i think it is our wisdom, in cooperation with the croatian government, to take action that will help to reverse this trend very quickly.
madam president! when i was working in the polish parliament two years ago, i had the pleasure of hosting my colleagues from the croatian foreign affairs committee as head of the foreign affairs committee, and they asked me if i knew how many polish sailors were sailing in croatia at the moment. turns out, tens of thousands of them at a time. the millions of tourists who come to this beautiful country can now say and confirm that croatia is a modern and democratic country ready to join the european union. but the same colleagues also asked me how poland is restructuring the shipyards, i.e. that there are still some problems that we all mentioned here problems to solve. i hope, however, that the words of minister martoni will come true, that our friends in hungary and the european commission will conclude the negotiations and that today we will hear from minister sikorsky (polish foreign minister), who will be in parliament, that poland, as the eu presidency, will have the pleasure of witnessing croatia's accession to the european union.
madam president! both mr swoboda's report and the reports by the presidency and commissioner füle indicate that the climate is very favourable for concluding the negotiations with croatia. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. the prospect of the negotiations being concluded soon and the atmosphere created in this house will also help croatia itself. this is an important signal that there will be no more problems and that the 20 years of waiting will end with the signing of the treaty of accession. we also appreciate the symbolic gestures of croatia, which has, for example, provided all its neighbours applying for membership with a translation of the full acquis communautaire. i appreciate the work of mr swoboda, and i am also convinced that this is the last report on croatia's progress towards membership. we will be quick to welcome her into the fold of the european union.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the accession of croatia to the european community is the subject of lively social debate. it is a country that is very attractive to europeans, but it also has its problems. i would like to point out that croatia still faces many challenges, many state reforms that should be effectively implemented in order to meet the eu requirements as soon as possible. but it is also in the interest of the european union to pursue an enlargement policy that will facilitate the consolidation of democracy, especially in the balkan countries. the european parliament should take a positive view of the changes that have taken place in croatia, because there is a strong desire on the part of the country to solve its internal problems. we must be open to new member states. i hope that the pace of negotiations will allow croatia to sign the accession treaty during the polish presidency, because this country deserves to be a member of the european union. thank you, sir.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i very much welcome this opportunity to appear before you to talk about a subject which is of particular importance for the hungarian presidency: the europe 2020 strategy. indeed, it is of particular importance for all of us. it is clear that europe has to overcome a number of serious challenges if it wishes to remain competitive with the rest of the world. some of these challenges have been generated by the financial and economic crisis, but some of them are inherent in our limited capacities and determination to fulfil the objectives and targets of the 2010 lisbon strategy. as is often said, crisis can be an opportunity – both in the ancient greek and in the chinese interpretation. it can be an opportunity for a breakthrough, for a solution and to make progress. that is why we believe that the crisis is currently a key factor in motivating member states to adopt quickly a new european strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this is the europe 2020 strategy. i am convinced that this strategy will play an important role in helping europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger, both internally and at international level, by boosting productivity, growth potential, social cohesion and economic governance. this is essential if we are going to be able to remain competitive globally, not least in the face of rapidly growing markets in asia. it is also essential if we are to maintain the social model, our way of life, which is a key characteristic of europe, dear to us all, and which we must preserve. the 2020 strategy confirmed five eu headline targets which constitute shared objectives guiding the action of member states and the union as regards promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through the reduction of poverty. as part of meeting these targets, the commission developed and presented seven flagship initiatives containing the actions it proposes to take to strengthen the single market and to boost growth and jobs: the digital agenda for europe, innovation union, youth on the move, resource efficient europe, an industrial policy for the globalisation era, an agenda for new skills and jobs and the european platform against poverty. for each initiative, both the eu and national authorities have to coordinate their efforts so that action at national and european level is mutually reinforcing. in december 2010, the first implementation report prepared by the presidency, in close cooperation with the commission and the incoming hungarian presidency, provided an overview of work undertaken since the launch of the strategy in june. the report highlights the most important work done in the council, in all its forms, regarding the seven flagship initiatives. furthermore, the report stresses the technologies progress achieved in the various policy areas which play a major role in the new strategy: the single market, cohesion policy and agricultural policy. it also lists the activities and initiatives that have been conducted at eu level in the last six months as regards the five eu headline targets. let me emphasise some important elements concerning economic governance. the implementation of economic governance reform is a fundamental condition for fighting the crisis and boosting the european economy. this is why the 2020 strategy is closely linked with what is known as the ‘european semester’: a new key instrument of macroeconomic surveillance, to be applied for the first time under this presidency. this new process started in january 2011 with the presentation of the commission’s annual growth survey. the hungarian presidency is paying particular attention to ensuring that the european semester runs smoothly and successfully. to that end, we will organise a series of debates in all relevant council meetings in the run-up to the march european council. the general affairs council has, in particular, been tasked with preparing a synthesis report for its meeting of 21 march, which will set out the main messages on the work being undertaken in the various sectoral councils. this report will be presented to the european council in march and will form the basis for the discussions, with the aim of agreeing on a set of priorities for structural reforms and fiscal consolidation. following on from the march european council, member states will finalise the drafting of the national reform programmes and stability or convergence reports, which will be submitted to the commission in april. after that, work should be taken forward with a view to elaborating country-specific recommendations which the member states will take into account when finalising their budgets for 2012 and implementing their growth strategies. i recognise that this calendar is very tight, but we hope to complete it by june or july. the 2020 strategy is key in ensuring the future economic success of the european union. it is closely linked to economic governance reform, which will also play a key role. unless we remain competitive and can secure strong growth in the future, we will find it increasingly difficult both to maintain a sufficiently high level of social protection internally and to bring europe’s voice to bear on events externally. this is the major challenge for europe in the years to come. i am absolutely sure that we can count on the support of the european parliament to help us deliver.
mr president-in-office, thank you for your introductory speech. we are talking about a very important issue: the europe 2020 strategy. we are in a crisis and the unemployment rate is very high, which is the biggest threat for our citizens. employment policy is therefore absolutely crucial, including under the 2020 strategy. we welcome the commissioner responsible for that area, mr lászló andor, to the european parliament.
madam president, my reading of the reality of today and of tomorrow is that european jobs will be sustainable only if they are underpinned by a competitive economy, and it is no secret that this not one of our strong points. to be successful on competitiveness in europe, we need an institutionalised competitiveness process. we have to identify success factors and we also have to see how to tailor them to the situation. we already have a large number of instruments – competitiveness-related instruments – indeed, with a little bit of political will, we can use a substantial part of the institutional framework to launch a commission-led competitiveness process based on the community system. i am referring here to the european semester, the growth survey that has already been mentioned. i could also mention imbalances and precision – especially in the scoreboard, which should include structural competitiveness-related factors. there is also the 2020 strategy, which should be vigorously implemented now and not after 2013. all policies should contribute to improving the competitiveness of the european economy: we need all hands on deck and decoupling europe’s core from the rest of it would simply generate a divided europe. sustainable jobs can only be created if europe sticks together. a divided europe will not be a competitive europe.
madam president, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, these employment guidelines have to face three major challenges. the first is to get out of the crisis through research, innovation and competitiveness to ensure a real economic recovery which enables us to ensure this social recovery. the second is to renew a whole generation of employees who are now retiring. the third is to be competitive in a globalised economy by freeing companies from a number of tax burdens that weigh on them and are a hindrance to them. in this context, we need to target three particularly vulnerable audiences. firstly, young people, young people for whom we must fight against the unskilled exits that permanently exclude them from the world of work. young people, because we need to facilitate their entry into the world of work, not just through precarious contracts, not just through internships; we must fight against their unemployment, which is a lasting evil that weighs heavily on our world today with the crisis that has hit them the hardest. the second target audience is women, women who are victims of precarious employment and are underpaid. the third target group is the elderly, whom we must keep in employment. we have european instruments for this, in particular the esf, and i believe we must use these instruments.
madam president! almost a year has passed since the commission presented the europe 2020 strategy. it was not an easy time for europe. member states continued to struggle with the consequences of the crisis. the next action plan for the implementation of the new strategy was pushed forward. the ambitious europe 2020 plans, such as raising the employment rate to 85%, reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by 20% and increasing research spending to 3%, seem to be in jeopardy less than a year after the strategy was launched. unemployment in the union is currently at 10%. there's still no prospect of a significant decline. on the contrary, assuming that the current slow pace of europe's recovery continues, unemployment will be even higher for at least the next few years. low employment levels contribute to poverty and social exclusion. this is confirmed by a eurobarometer report from june last year.
madam president! the employment guidelines are and should be seen as a fundamental instrument in the economic governance process of the european semester. these guidelines provide the member states with the foundation on which to build their current national reform programmes, which are essential to the success of the europe 2020 strategy. the work on the national reform programme is scheduled to be completed in april. i would also like to draw attention to the opinion of the committee of the regions and stress the importance of involving both national parliaments and regional and local authorities in the work on the national reform programmes. changes to the guidelines at this stage could disrupt this process. i would like to draw attention to the need for an integrated horizontal approach to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore reiterate the importance of cohesion policy instruments for the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the quality of human capital is crucial to the success of the eu 2020 strategy. gender mainstreaming is a key principle in the vocational education and training system. this is a prerequisite for the long-term, labour market-friendly professional development of women, the better exploitation of their potential, and the increase in the employment of women, including in particular in non-traditional occupational, low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high decision-making positions. i call for vocational education and training to be tailored to women's needs and for women to be more involved in it. at present, vocational training and education do not take into account the different needs of women, their socioeconomic conditions. this makes it much more difficult for women to return to or enter the labour market than men. in order to be effective, the vocational education and training system for women must be comprehensive, i.e. it must cover women's experiences, living situations and multidimensional training needs, including the specific needs of, for example, women with disabilities, the elderly, the poor, and immigrants. the priority is to provide flexible, affordable access to high-quality training. the incentives for employers to facilitate training for women working in small businesses and at home are also important. in line with the eu 2020 strategy, it is also necessary to better link vocational training to labour market needs in order to create new opportunities for women in science, mathematics, engineering and training.
in writing. a year has passed since the adoption of the new europe 2020 strategy and it is time to draw the first conclusions. it was greeted with a certain scepticism, which was justified by the total failure of the lisbon strategy. many commentators predicted that it too would remain a blank document, filled with ambitious but unrealistic goals. who does not remember the fundamental assumption of the lisbon strategy that the union will be the most competitive economy in the world by 2010? and where are we now? the great recession and the budgetary crises in the euro area have left the union fighting for survival, not for global economic leadership. will the europe 2020 strategy also fail? there are reasons for that! instead of thinking about how to create a knowledge-based and innovative economy, or how to reduce social exclusion, we are discussing how much funding will be reduced in the community budget. it is increasingly clear that there is a lack of political will to actually address the strategy proposed by the commission. it seems that once again the problem of the union's long-term development vision has been overshadowed by the current problems. in order to maintain its place in the world economy, to be able to compete not only with the usa and china but also with brazil and india, the community must set long-term objectives and pursue them consistently. we have a plan, now we just have to follow it.
in writing. – the euro 2020 strategy is about economic growth and employment. we must remember that a smart energy system is the future both in terms of the environment and these jobs. such a system would allow us to decouple economic growth from energy consumption. if this will be the case, we will be able to produce more for the same or less energy consumption and create thousands of jobs which can not be outsourced. we have to make sure that smart energy does not remain a dream. we are building today a whole new energy infrastructure in europe. we have to ensure this lessens the divide between western and central europe in terms of sustainable jobs. a two-speed europe on energy will not solve energy poverty or inefficiency. we should give a helping hand to those regions which are behind, even if it is not easy in today’s economic realities. we need a smart energy system for all european citizens at the same time. we must prevent a piecemeal system where some citizens only see the future 50 years after the others. simply put, we need smart energy jobs for all europeans, not just for those who would have received them even without europe.
mr. chairman, please! this is an important resolution on the mechanism for financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises. we sometimes encounter critical assessments that on the one hand we are talking about the important role of this business sector in production, in creating 1/3 of gdp in the european union, in creating stable jobs, but without good financial support instruments for these companies. most of the eu's development and innovation funds go to large companies, because of their needs. that should change. on the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises are not able to meet the requirements that are imposed on them. the crisis has severely restricted the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to credit and loans, and new regulations to be introduced in the banking sector may make this even more difficult. i would like to mention the basel iii safeguards which are being prepared. i consider access to finance for business development, particularly in the area of innovation, to be particularly important. we emphasise the role of the sme sector, in particular as this group of sleeping innovators. smes need to enter the european market more widely. this is to boost the economy, create jobs and achieve the europe 2020 goals.
having completed the vote in a very short time, i thought i would be more flexible with regard to the colleagues who have worked hard to get the time they have. if you ask me to be strict, i will, of course, of course always in moderation.
mr. chairman, please! the green paper aims to gather the views of the member states on how to achieve the stated objective of adequate, stable and secure pensions, and the adopted commission report rightly concludes that, firstly, there is no basis for the harmonisation of pension systems. secondly, member states should offer different forms of future pension provision and, above all, a minimum pension to protect people from poverty. third, member states such as poland, which have prepared a difficult pension reform that is increasing the deficit and public debt, should not be penalised under the excessive deficit procedure. fourth, the pension system should encourage longer working hours, in line with the labour market trend. the conclusions are, in my view, fully in line with the europe 2020 economic strategy of the european union, in particular with the employment strategy and the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
mr. chairman, please! we have adopted a very important report on pension systems in europe. we are facing a serious demographic challenge. the birth rate is very low, life expectancy is rising, public spending is increasing due to the aging of the population. in many countries, there is debate about raising the retirement age. the current economic and demographic situation forces us to think seriously about this question. it increases, i said, the life expectancy. we're working under better conditions, which allows us to extend our activities. pension schemes are a matter for the member states. however, it is time to coordinate them at eu level, for example with regard to the functioning of the internal market and the requirements of the stability and growth pact. expenditure on pensions and health care has a significant impact on the state of public finances in individual member states. we need to stimulate people to extend their careers through better working conditions and better wages.
mr. chairman, please! unlike my colleague, i was happy to vote in favour of this report on the extension and termination of the negotiations with croatia. this is an important objective of the hungarian presidency, and secondly, it will be a great success for croatia and an important signal for the european union candidate countries in the region. the few chapters that remain to be concluded should be closed in the current six months. the most important is the will of croatia, which declares its determination to implement all the provisions and criteria of membership. this will also apply to the regulation of difficult neighbourly relations. all the countries that have recently become members of the european union know that the final negotiations are the most difficult, because in them too we have many provisions that affect large social groups. the example of the shipyards in croatia is another good example. i wish croatia determination and i would like to see the accession treaty signed during the polish presidency.
mr. chairman, please! the integration of the western balkans into the union guarantees the stability of the region and its faster development. the country that is most advanced in this endeavor is croatia. progress is encouraging in many areas, including the fight against corruption, but further efforts are needed, including on the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, public administration reform and competition policy. we encourage croatia to continue to work for minority rights and support for returning refugees. one of the problems facing croatia is also to improve cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. the restructuring and privatisation plan for shipyards in difficulty should also be adopted and accelerated. however, the biggest challenge may be the scepticism of the croatian public towards eu accession. i welcome croatia's active role in regional cooperation, its efforts to improve cooperation with neighbouring countries and its efforts to promote reconciliation in the region.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? health is the most important value in the life of every human being. therefore, the various types of counterfeit medicinal products, especially those of a life-saving nature, which are on the market, rightly cause concern to citizens. the huge and systematically increasing number of counterfeits seized each year in the union can be cause for concern. a radical response to this phenomenon, which is organized crime, is therefore a necessity. the patient must have absolute confidence that the medication he is taking is genuine. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that protection against counterfeit medicines should be the overriding and unwavering objective of the directive. i also fully support the proposal to include the directive on the online distribution of medicinal products. in this case, the patient is largely on his own, and his medical knowledge may not be sufficient to identify a counterfeit. in a matter as vital as health, the rules must be clear. all risks must be eliminated.
in writing. - we take medicines to relieve pain, to reduce symptoms of disease or to save lives. often, we spend large sums of money, sometimes large sums of money, on them. this has led to dishonest, unethical people who have counterfeited medical products. unfortunately, some of these drugs have been known to cause death. therefore, safeguards for the import of medicinal products from third countries should be strengthened, the sale of medicinal products via the internet should be minimised, a campaign should be launched to raise awareness among patients of the risks of taking untested, falsified medicinal products and a campaign to inform buyers of the existence of falsified medicinal products. i agree with the rapporteur that copyright protection is not a priority here. the most important thing is people's health and lives, and it's our duty to do everything we can to protect them.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the report by mrs marisa matias on falsified medicines. i believe that the document adopted today will reduce the growing problem of counterfeit medicines and introduce a well-functioning system for monitoring the european market from manufacturer to patient. i am convinced that coordination between the various national and international bodies is essential and that by approving the report we are taking a step towards strengthening this cooperation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'medicinal products' in the definition of medicinal products. thank you, sir.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards the prevention of the introduction into the legal system of medicinal products falsified as to their identity, history or source of origin. the appearance of falsified medicinal products in official distribution is undoubtedly a threat to the whole european pharmaceutical system, undermining the confidence that citizens have in the quality of medicines purchased in pharmacies or other legal outlets. the most disturbing signal to me is the change in risk profile. whereas previously the main counterfeit products were 'lifestyle products', there has been a dramatic increase in the number of life-saving medicines being counterfeited. it is therefore important to establish a clear and unambiguous definition of 'counterfeit medicinal product', but also for all actors in the distribution chain, such as dealers and intermediaries, who must act on the basis of authorisations and comply with the principles of good manufacturing practice, as well as manufacturers and distributors. in view of the above, i consider it necessary and a priority to support all actions aimed at minimising this problem.
in writing. - i welcome the results of today's vote. it is planned that about 70% of the eu funds for entrepreneurs will be provided through loan funds. grants will be reserved primarily for high-risk projects for which it will be difficult to obtain a loan. in the opinion of experts, aid in the form of a preferential loan or guarantee is better in the long run than aid granted without reimbursement. in the case of a preferential loan, the advantage for the entrepreneur is lower. but these loans can be used by many more companies, and the lending system, once it's fueled by money, theoretically works forever. i therefore share the idea that after 2014 70-80% of support for entrepreneurs should be provided in the form of loans and guarantees, and the rest in the form of grants. the latter would be reserved for supporting high-risk innovative projects (i.e. those which would have difficulty in qualifying for a loan).
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? dear colleagues! i welcome the outcome of today's vote on the report by mrs rie oomen-ruijten on adequate, stable and secure pension systems in europe. i believe that pensions should be secure and stable, especially in the context of an ageing european society and the financial crisis. the statistics are a clear signal that the problem is growing, that demographic changes are evident in europe. experts say that for every pensioner in the eu, there are now four people working, but in about 50 years there will be only two. it is therefore clear that further work on the pension system is needed and further reforms are necessary. we must therefore seek to increase the international activity of the member states so that the coordination of pension systems is effective and efficient. in addition, the ep report makes it clear that there should be no discrimination on the grounds of age or gender, which is extremely important in the context of the social debate on equality between women and men in the labour market. thank you, sir.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! in today's vote i voted in favour of the report on stable and secure pension systems in europe. the issue of future pensions is a problem not only in poland, but in the entire european union. in the report, the european parliament confirmed that, as regards pension schemes, it is the member state that is responsible for the organisation of the national pension scheme. the eu institutions, on the other hand, support the actions of the member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. it is very important for me to draw attention to the fact that women are discriminated against in the pension systems and that this must be fought. the current demographic changes, leading to an ageing society, also pose a problem in establishing stable pensions. we have more and more retired people and fewer and fewer people active in the labor market. the problem of young people who cannot find employment because of the situation on the labour market is also a major issue. it is therefore necessary to increase the number of people in the labour market and to keep them active for as long as possible.
in writing. − croatia has recently made significant progress towards membership of the european union and is likely to become an eu member state soon. in 2010, eu and croatian negotiators closed 11 chapters, bringing the total to 28 (out of the required 35). last year's achievement clearly demonstrates croatia's determination to continue reforms and will soon allow its citizens to reap the benefits of eu membership. at the last eu-croatia ministerial meeting in brussels on 22 december 2010, negotiators closed three important chapters, entitled 'justice, freedom and security'; 'foreign and defence policy'; and 'environment'. closing these chapters means strengthening the croatian legal system and making progress in several areas at once, such as greater cooperation between croatia and the international community on military and civilian missions (foreign and defence policy) or guaranteeing better air and water quality for croatian citizens (environment). negotiations on croatia's accession to the european union started in october 2005. despite some logistical problems, croatia's accession is strongly supported by eu member states, and many of them expect the remaining seven chapters to be closed quickly - by the end of 2011.
in writing. - croatia is one of the countries that is moving closer to joining the european union. in the last few years, croatia has shown great initiative and made progress in many areas, starting with the judiciary and ending with human rights. i am particularly pleased with the progress made in these areas, as i called on the croatian government last year to step up its efforts to bring the law into line with the law in these areas. croatia is currently facing the same problems as most of the past and current candidates for eu membership: corruption, settling historical disputes with neighbouring countries, and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. to solve these problems, it takes a lot of effort, not just from the government, but from the public. you can't improve the situation of sexual or ethnic minorities without affecting the mentality of the citizens. however, as the examples of the new member states show, membership of the european union has gradually contributed to an increase in acceptance of people of different origins or sexual orientation. the croatian people must be told that the european union is ready to welcome a new member into its community. hopefully, that'll be soon enough.
in writing. − the past months have shown that croatia's efforts to join the european union as soon as possible are producing tangible results. the reforms initiated in recent years have made a significant contribution to development in many areas of life. it is particularly pleased with the improved cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in the hague, as well as the progress made in the field of women's rights and the protection of national minorities. regional initiatives such as the agreement to establish a joint railway transport enterprise between croatia, serbia and slovenia are an expression of the desire for peaceful cooperation and contribute to accelerating economic development in the balkans. the union member states should continue to support croatia in its reform efforts, paying particular attention to the most pressing problems: corruption, high unemployment and the plight of the fragmented agricultural sector. i hope that, as the hungarian presidency has promised, we will conclude the negotiations with croatia in june and that croatia will be admitted to the community in the second half of 2011, during the polish presidency.
colleagues, we shall start with the signing of the lex citizens’ initiative. dear minister martonyi, president-in-office, dear chairs, rapporteurs, today we are considering legal matters: the very important signing into law of a very important piece of european legislation. it is important because we are giving another check to balance the powers of our institutions. this regulation on the european citizens’ initiative, which has been adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, aims at providing our citizens with the same political initiative that the council of ministers and the european parliament already enjoy. one million signatures are needed – only 0.2% of our citizens – to invite the european commission to act in matters that concern them directly. it allows them to be heard. i will indeed establish a direct link between the citizens and the union’s institutions, bridging the gap between them, between all of us in the european union. the european parliament and the council worked hard to achieve a rapid adoption of this citizen-friendly regulation at first reading. i would like to thank all those who contributed to this success: the various presidencies – in particular the belgian and hungarian presidencies –, the commission and the members of this house. i would like to give particular thanks to the chairs of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco) and the committee on petitions (peti), carlo casini and erminia mazzoni. i will ask you to come forward for the signing of the procedure. the four rapporteurs, alain lamassoure, zita gurmai, diana wallis and gerald häfner – i hope you are present and we can go through the procedure together – as well as the many other members involved as shadow rapporteurs. you can be proud of the work done for our citizens. with the council we shall now sign this act into law but, before that, i will ask our guest, who will often be present in the european parliament this half-year, minister martonyi, to say a few words.
madam president! consumers, but also farmers, have the right to ask us politicians what is going on. why is this the situation in the food market? farmers know their income, they know the prices at which they sell their products and they know the prices at which they and other consumers buy food. what can we tell them today? we remember the food market situation in 2008. have we learned anything from this? the answer is no. we're still cutting back on the production. worse, we're paying for the decline in production. and we used to pay for her growth. this room also hears other voices on agriculture. let those fellows of ours come here today, let them listen. maybe they'll understand something about food safety. there is a debate on the future of the cap after 2013 and everyone wants to reduce the cap again. this current situation, this crisis, has come to warn us of a disastrous policy. we have a chance to right the wrongs we've done. this is stability we're talking about. we ask why there are no stocks, and we limit trends in agricultural markets. where are we gonna get supplies? who's gonna pay for them? commissioner, this situation, this crisis, gives you a very strong case. ladies and gentlemen, we have to convince the other members present in this chamber of the seriousness of the situation and the responsibility that this chamber has for the future of the cap, for feeding the public. food security is becoming a global problem. it's good that... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president! let's face it, there are powerful trade lobbies in the european union that are interested in weakening european agriculture to make more money from importing food from around the world. we have heard many times in this parliament that the way to combat food prices is to open up the markets. we've had sugar market reform, we've opened up markets, we've curbed sugar production in europe, we've abolished export subsidies and what are the results? yes, the price of sugar has not gone down, it has gone up. let this be a lesson to us, that's not the way. i agree with mr smith that the market is not the recipe here. and we really should not succumb to this commercial lobby, and the way to ensure that we have the right food prices is to better protect our agriculture, its production potential, food security. only then will we have reasonable prices.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcome the fact that the european parliament is dealing with rising food prices. unfortunately, these price increases are not a short-term phenomenon but appear to be a more long-term trend. this is compounded by the growing demand for food, especially grain, the poor harvests in recent years with low stocks, but unfortunately also financial operations and the weakening value of the dollar. all of this is causing a huge turbulence in the market. but more important to us are the social consequences. in many lands, the number of people who are chronically undernourished and hungry is growing dramatically. their desperation could be the fuel for rising political tensions. we cannot just stand by and watch these things happen. international cooperation is needed within the framework of the un and the european union. members of the g20 should effectively prevent agricultural price speculation. the regulation of agricultural markets in europe must also be reviewed in order not to artificially limit the possibilities for increasing production. we must not speculate on world hunger, because the result of such speculation could be the starvation of many innocent people, especially in the poorest countries.
mr. chairman, please! once again, parliament is dealing with the situation in egypt, which is dynamic and needs to be monitored. meanwhile, egypt's president has resigned, but that has not diminished the fear of destabilization in the country and the region. there is still a threat of a power grab by extremist forces. i have previously called for parliament and the commission to send a special observer mission to egypt, and at this point it is necessary to give this delegation decision-making powers. this is not just about helping to hold free elections, but also about launching a quick package of financial resources, especially since the egyptians themselves are calling for financial assistance for egypt. the deepening of the already existing crisis could lead to an increase in unrest and anti-democratic sentiment. for the measures to be effective, the united states of north america, which has an active policy in the region, should be consulted.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. freedom of speech is a great value - we all know this - and therefore it should be subjected to serious debate. unfortunately, it seems that this debate today is not one of them. it seems to be a pretext for leftist circles to attack the right-wing, conservative government of prime minister orban. the fact is that in europe we can point to many countries where freedom of speech is being violated. it is enough to refer to the experience of poland. in poland where the ruling party has a total, you could say, majority in all governing bodies, almost a monopoly of power, controls the government, the senate, the president, the national radio council, the media watchdog, finally has power in public television and the favor of the largest electronic media journalists are fired en masse just because they have conservative and right-wing views. conservative and right-wing programs are being eliminated, such as the "it's worth talking" program by editor pospieszalski or "special mission" by editor gargas. the question is where is mr schulz when, where are the ladies and gentlemen when this kind of abuse happens in poland. let's talk about this where there's real violations, where they've already happened. the member agreed to answer the question put to him under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8))
thank you for asking. i pointed out that the problem of media freedom is a fundamental problem. if we're going to lean on him, we have to disconnect him from political sympathies, whether we're socialist or conservative or right-wing. in short, if journalists are removed from the media just because they have left-wing views, or just because they have conservative views, we should protest. today, for example, in poland, journalists are removed just because they have conservative views. i would expect mr schulz and other colleagues to show solidarity, and i would expect socialists and people with left-wing views to protest, because it shows that we are concerned with standards and not with political games. we're talking about a real concern for the freedom of the press. let us protest against such situations wherever they occur, even when they are happening now, for example in poland.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. freedom and pluralism of the media are among the fundamental values on which the european union is founded. that is why i am pleased that the european commission has responded strongly to the information on the hungarian media law and taken concrete action. as a person with many years of experience in the media, i will be following with interest the work of the expert group announced by commissioner neelie kroes to advise the commission on the next steps. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the commission's analysis of the legal compatibility of the hungarian media law with eu law unfortunately reveals the weakness of european law, and specifically the audiovisual services directive. paradoxically, the directive does not give the commission much scope for action. therefore, when analysing hungarian law, the commission unfortunately had to 'bring up' certain arguments, relying on the treaty itself (freedom of establishment) rather than on the directive. i am aware that the european union has a rather limited competence in the field of audiovisual policy, but on the other hand i believe that the media, which is one of the foundations of democracy, must enjoy certain minimum rights and be subject to common standards. i therefore share the view of my socialist and democratic group that the eu legal framework needs to be revised to include minimum requirements in the area of media freedom and pluralism, and i hope that we will soon have a substantive discussion on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! the european investment bank is a de facto eu institution, because it is financed by the taxpayers of the eu member states. so it has to be an absolutely transparent bank, a bank that shows how it works in absolute detail and detail. i wanted to emphasize very strongly that as a representative of a country bordering belarus, i personally support the european investment bank freezing all lending and credit facilities to support the lukashenka regime. we need to show that human rights in the east of the european union are as important to us as human rights in africa or asia. although i agree with my colleague who said not to apply double standards to libya and belarus.
mr. chairman, please! the union's external relations policy has been expanded and strengthened in recent years and supported by new financial instruments such as the instrument for pre-accession assistance and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. the european investment bank should undoubtedly place particular emphasis on the integration of transport and energy networks, such as the nabuco gas pipeline project and other gas pipeline projects of particular importance to the european union. in the eastern partnership, we must not forget the respect of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights by all the partner countries, including belarus. but until the authorities there understand that respecting human rights is something that has to be one of the most important responsibilities of the authorities there, the financing from the european investment bank simply cannot take place in that country.
mr. chairman, please! in my view, the european investment bank's activities outside the european union should be conducted in accordance with the values of the european union itself and with the principles laid down in the european neighbourhood policy. in the present situation, in my opinion, the european union cannot allow belarus to be a potential beneficiary of european investment bank loans. if the regime in minsk wants to use the european investment bank's funds, it must respect the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the european union should take a consistent stance on this issue, introducing both political and financial sanctions.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kalfin, on a very good report which, in my view, fully reflects the position of the european parliament. the extension of the guarantee mandate for the european investment bank is very important and i hope that the conciliation procedure will be a complete success. i also welcome the initiative to increase the guarantee amounts for the union for the mediterranean. given the recent events in this region (in tunisia, egypt, and recently in libya), i think we should support the emerging democracies there. on the other hand, i also think it is right not to grant loans to belarus, as my predecessors have said, where, as the recent presidential elections and related events have shown, democracy and human rights are being violated.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is obvious to any democratic society that the transparency and openness of the activities of any authority should be ensured. and that's the condition for good decisions to be made with a disinterested mind, so that the whole of society, the whole of the country, or the organization that it represents, is taken into account, not just some particular interests. this is why we should all the more emphasise, whenever possible, that the bodies linked to the european union, the european commission and all the other bodies linked to the functioning of the institutions, including the european parliament, should act as transparently and openly as possible. it is therefore entirely legitimate and right to demand that the expert groups also act in accordance with these rigorous criteria, with the utmost openness and transparency. to rule out any possible conflicts of interest, to rule out any possible acting in the name of particular interests when we don't know about it and when these actions can affect important decisions for the whole european union.
mr. chairman, please! egypt is an important economic and trade partner of the european union. many of my countrymen visit this country regularly for vacation. in recent weeks, we have witnessed a national upheaval among egyptians that has led to the resignation of president mubarak after 30 years of authoritarian rule. it is always the right way when the will of the people prevails, and for that, the egyptians deserve credit. i am voting in favour of the resolution in the hope that the political situation in egypt will stabilise quickly and that positive relations with european countries will continue to develop. we have recently witnessed the shameful incidents of discrimination against coptic christians, and therefore the focus of eu diplomacy on stabilising and bringing order to the country is a necessary condition for the proper development of relations. we must also do everything possible to ensure that the forthcoming elections are held in a manner that is free of any prejudice and in accordance with democratic principles.
mr. chairman, please! for many years, we have found that the russian legal system is often in conflict with the norms of international conventions and human rights. it's russia that gets the most cases to the european court of justice here in strasbourg. the independence of russia's courts is therefore highly questionable. recent events, such as the trial of mr. khodorkovsky and the arrest of protesters, are a clear example of this. the mysterious killings and beatings only add to the impression of russian lawlessness. i hope that the resolution we have adopted today will make it easier for the representatives of the european union authorities to deal with these sensitive issues in their diplomatic relations with russia. i express my concern to the russian authorities about the dramatic situation of human rights and the shrinking space for civil society in that country. i call on the international institutions to apply diplomatic pressure on the russian authorities to restore the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights in that country.
mr. chairman, please! food is also of strategic importance for the european union. it is linked to production and, consequently, to labour markets. i would like to focus on the issue of an industry that is also a source of food production - fisheries. fisheries, which supplies the eu and world markets with a significant amount of food. but the european union is the biggest importer of fishery products from the rest of the world. too much liberalisation of this market could lead to a collapse and consequently to the loss of this source of food in europe. it is therefore worth paying attention to this aspect of the common policy.
mr. chairman, please! a billion people in the world are starving. in 2008, rising food prices caused riots in 30 countries. now we have a very similar situation. this is also due to the general economic crisis. all the more reason to look for ways to distribute food more equitably around the world. food prices are rising, and farmers' incomes are falling. that too must be emphasized very strongly. unfortunately, the european union forgets that the common agricultural policy is first and foremost a policy of ensuring the supply of high-quality food at an adequate price to all european consumers, with a guarantee of a fair income for farmers. the continued elimination of market regulation instruments, including cereal stocks at a sufficiently high level, cannot be allowed to continue. it is also necessary to eliminate speculative activities on the market. it is reprehensible that the capitalist groups condemn millions of people to starvation in the world.
in writing. - recent events in egypt and tunisia have shown that the thesis that arab societies are incapable of democracy is wrong. based on this misconception, the european union and almost all other global political forces in the arab world have placed the stability of the region above the right of the people to self-determination. that policy has been proven wrong. one hopes that the consequences of this mistake will not be too severe. we must take action today to eliminate them. but mistakes must be corrected. one of the actions resulting from this proposal should be to freeze the assets of egyptian leaders responsible for the misappropriation of state funds in the country. i therefore call on all member states to do everything possible to ensure that this is the case. before egypt, the crucial months. the european parliament should give all possible support to the emerging civil society and democratic institutions. the priority should be to support free and democratic elections. there's one message that he needs to be sending us in the next few years. democracy in egypt is a great long-term investment that will pay off for both egyptians and europeans
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of a joint resolution on the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region. the idea of an integrated approach, including the development of a european union strategy for macro-regions, is the best example of territorial cooperation and a way to increase the effectiveness of regional policy, which should be supported and developed. the baltic sea strategy, adopted in the middle of last year, is a model for eu policy coordination and funding of macro-regions, geopolitical territorial units defined on the basis of specific criteria. the vast trans-danube region, which covers 14 european countries and has a population of 115 million people, from both eu and non-eu countries, required a single plan combining economic, environmental, social and cultural aspects (the four pillars of the strategy). in the context of the need to carry out mid-term analyses of the implementation of the strategy, as in the report on the baltic sea strategy, the resolution called on the european commission to develop specific instruments and criteria for assessing projects based on comparable indicators. parliament also asked the commission to analyse the first results and experience of the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region and, on the basis of the two strategies (baltic and danube), to identify potential sources and methods of financing macro-regional strategies.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i would like to comment on the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the europe 2020 strategy. i fully agree with parliament's position and believe that the governance structure of the strategy should be strengthened, as the actions taken so far are not very concrete and therefore not very effective. i believe that gender equality is a key element in achieving the ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy. the main objective is to increase the participation of women in the labour market by closing the existing gender pay gap by 2020 (the strategy assumes 1% per year to achieve a 10% reduction by 2020). reducing the poverty of women is also a very important issue (it is estimated that 17% of women live in poverty, most of them single mothers and immigrants). the objectives of the strategy can be achieved primarily through education and training. i am referring to financial support for young people, support for mobility programmes for students and academic staff. training and programmes to promote skills change should also be given high priority.
in writing. − preventive action is needed in view of the ageing of the population, as well as demographic changes indicating a move from rural to urban areas and a growing income disparity. the negative effects are particularly evident in rural areas, where fewer and fewer young people want to take over farms. they are fleeing the countryside because of low incomes and lack of access to services. those who stay can't find work outside of farming. the worst of these are rural women, who rarely own a farm, but who work hard on their husband's farm. it is therefore necessary to keep young farmers in the countryside, ensuring them a decent income and a decent standard of living. and those who cannot find a place in the countryside, provide them with an education that will enable them to find employment. a convincing campaign for lifelong learning and retraining is also needed. there is also a need for programmes to support women's entrepreneurship and to make it easier for them to start their own businesses, even outside the agricultural sector.
in writing. −unemployment is a very big problem and one that is difficult to solve. it drains public finances. on the expenditure side, the amount of benefits and other social benefits is increasing, and the financial burden on various unemployment and vocational rehabilitation programmes is increasing. on the revenue side, there's no production, there are no taxes. the number of unemployed in the union has reached over 23 million, meaning that 0.5 million people lost their jobs during the year. every effort should be made to achieve the europe 2020 target of increasing employment of people aged 20-64 to 75%. let us remember that the under-25s have the highest unemployment rate - over 20%.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! today, we voted on a resolution on food price increases. rapidly rising food prices are leading to food insecurity for millions of people in both developed and developing countries. as the effects of food price increases have been felt most strongly by socially disadvantaged groups, europe should take the following actions together with third countries and international institutions without delay. regulation and supervision should be introduced at national and international level, which will solve the problem of speculation on agricultural markets (trade in food commodity derivatives limited to investors directly linked to agricultural production). the cap should be equipped with the appropriate instruments for market intervention, as a strong common agricultural policy seems to be the only guarantee for solving the problem of food security. it is very important to establish appropriate risk prevention and management measures in order to limit the consequences of natural disasters on agricultural production. attention should also be paid to supporting agriculture producing for local and regional consumers. lack of coordination in tackling high price volatility could contribute to even greater disparities in food distribution between rich and poor countries and, in the longer term, threaten food crises. the question of how to feed an ever-growing population remains open.
on behalf of the s&d group. the 11th-century temple of preah vihear has seen hindu and buddhist influences clash with the khmer rouge and the lon nol regime on many occasions. since the early 20th century, the temple has been the subject of a dispute between cambodia and thailand, which have alternately claimed the right to the building, its surrounding grounds, and the boundary between the two countries. the latest developments in this dispute have been observed since the beginning of february this year. despite the ruling of the international court of justice in the hague granting the temple to cambodia, there are still issues to be resolved. both governments should make every effort to find a compromise that will lay the foundations for a permanent agreement. the recurrence of the conflict of a week and a half ago, when the armies of both countries were firing artillery at each other, is unacceptable both from the point of view of the people of the region who are at risk of death and from the point of view of the destroyed temple, which is on the unesco world heritage list. the latter organization has already offered its help. so is the association of southeast asian nations. today, the european parliament is joining in this call. the entrance fee to the preah vihear temple is $5. question: what is the price of over a century of conflict between cambodia and thailand?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is a particular strength of the european union that we are not selfish, that we look beyond the tip of our european nose, that we look at what is happening outside europe, what is happening in far-off exotic asia. this conflict, as has been rightly pointed out, has in fact a history of more than a century. but it is good that the european union, that the european parliament, which is really the heart of the union, is speaking out on this issue. that's good, because we should be everywhere that there's a debate about human rights, where there's a debate about what's most important, and certainly this conflict shows that people have been dying, and today they're fighting, although not as deadly, on issues that could be settled in a very peaceful way. it is good that the european parliament is intervening on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! unesco is trying to save preah vihear temple a world heritage site and fund its conservation. thailand and cambodia, on the other hand, not only disrespect this effort, but also violate the international convention for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict. i consider it reckless that a building that has survived from the 11th century to our time is destroyed. but above all, i think this example should raise the issue of responsibility. we cannot allow a repeat of the 2001 attack on the unique buddha statues in afghanistan. this was not only the result of the religious fanaticism of the taliban, but also the lack of sufficient engagement by western countries. the destruction of the world's cultural heritage cannot go unpunished. this is so important that, like the war crimes tribunal in the hague, there should be an institution to try and hold accountable those who destroy priceless monuments.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 1991, yemen banned the execution of children under the age of 15. since 1994, this ban has been extended to persons under the age of 18. unfortunately, in practice, it happens that it is not respected, for example, as already discussed here in the room, in the case of people who do not have documents to prove their age. yemen is also home to other dangerous phenomena. this is a country where the number of firearms has long exceeded the population, where violent tribal fighting is commonplace, and where teenage girls with guns are not a sensation. there's even a saying that if you're old enough to carry a knife, you're old enough to fight for your tribe. and as anyone who's been to yemen knows, knives are commonplace, and teenagers with a stun gun are not uncommon. yemen is also a very young society, with almost half of yemenis under the age of 14, and various militias recruiting young soldiers, which is something we should also fight against.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i promise i won't read too fast because i'll be speaking slowly. it is an honor to be speaking right after the former prime minister of finland. i wanted to say that it is a kind of minimalism on the part of the european union to advise that yemen does not execute minors. i am an opponent of the death penalty, although i know there are people in this room who are for the death penalty, even though they don't talk about it publicly. i'm against the death penalty, whether it's for a minor or an adult. but on this issue, i hope that beyond the national and factional divisions, we will demand from the yemeni authorities with one voice that the yemeni president use the law of clemency in this matter. it's really a matter of really fighting together.
mr. chairman, please! the death penalty is a subject that we should spend a lot of time on. our code of ethics, which we have managed to develop after the nightmares that have affected europe, should be promoted in other countries. in those countries with which we have any economic contacts, but i'm also thinking here of the countries of europe. in belarus, there are still death sentences and the death penalty is still used. what is happening in yemen must be our concern and we must make the loudest appeals to the yemeni government to stop these horrible practices immediately and also to look at the fact that - as my colleague said a moment ago - there are still x minors in prison awaiting the death penalty. and i also appeal to all of us: we should work more closely with organizations like amnesty international and the helsinki foundation for human rights to make our voice more heard and to have more power of translation around the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think the situation where we're talking about uganda for the third time in 14 months, and the second time in a few months, is a very worrying situation. i agree with my predecessors, it's really not just about human rights for one group, but it's about human rights in uganda in general. however, in this context, all minorities face very serious challenges. i think that the european parliament's vote on this matter is particularly important. i am glad that representatives of the various political groups are speaking together on this issue and are saying essentially the same thing, although of course they may have different accents. i would say that in uganda there is no respect for human rights at all, this group too and this group we should also defend in this context especially. we should also defend the right to free political activity and also emphasise the rights of human rights defenders in this context.
mr. chairman, please! the brutal murder of david kato, one of uganda's most prominent human rights defenders, is the result of homophobia. even if the killer is punished, there will still be a climate of hate, and legal discrimination against lgbt people. in 38 african countries, homosexuality is a crime, punishable by death in four. the european union is actively supporting democratic change in africa. we cannot allow human rights to be violated in such a drastic way. how much blood must be shed, how many people must die before the international community can force a change in the laws that violate human rights in africa? and then there is the role of the church, which, instead of promoting love and peace, has been bullying homosexuals by promoting the absurd theory that homosexuality is a serious disease that needs to be cured.
mr. chairman, please! when i think of uganda, when i think of how this beautiful country has suffered a lot since idi amin's time and still human rights are violated there, i am grateful to all my colleagues who are so keen to pay attention to this. and i think we should be talking about this in the same way about what hate speech can lead to. it was the hate speech (that tabloid that published mr. kato's photos) that led to this nightmarish murder. this language of hate works the same way here in the european union. there are websites like red watch, and these websites have names, sometimes even addresses, of people of different sexual orientations, different faiths, different worldviews. these websites actually openly advocate violence against minorities. we must take care of these rights and the safety of minorities around the world, but also in our own country.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 17 february 2011.
i'd like to start by giving you three pieces of information. i would like to inform you that written statement no 89/2010 has reached the required number of signatures. i hereby declare that it has become the text adopted by the european parliament. this declaration concerned the unilateral reinstatement by canada of the visa requirement for czech citizens. the european parliament expects the commission and the council to take immediate action towards canada to lift visas for citizens of the czech republic. we also expect more decisive action from the council and the commission than has been the case so far. we are in full solidarity with the czech citizens who, as citizens of the european union, should be able to enter canada without a visa. statement number two: on 11 march, that is four days from now, on friday, we will be celebrating the seventh european day for victims of terrorism. on this day in 2004, bombings in madrid killed nearly 200 people. sixteen months later, 52 people were killed in the london bombings. terrorism is an attack on the very essence of democracy! terrorism has no justification, but no attack and no terrorist will ever be able to weaken the spirit of european solidarity and the spirit of european democracy! thirdly, we are deeply concerned by the execution of five people in taiwan on friday. the resumption of the death penalty in 2010 was a repeal of the de facto moratorium in force since 2006. the european union, and in particular the european parliament, has long condemned the use of the death penalty worldwide. we call on the taiwanese authorities to impose a moratorium on the use of this inhuman punishment and to remove it from the criminal code in the future.
thank you for your attention. i will answer this question in writing.
the next item is the report by mrs anni podimata on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the report on innovative financing methods at global and european level [2010/2105 (ini) ] (a7-0036/2011).
mr. chairman, please! i do not want to repeat the arguments of my predecessors, my colleagues in the political group. i just want to make an argument. it is true, of course, that the financial transaction tax is a tax that will be passed on to the citizen. it is true that to introduce such a tax without any analysis, which we do not have, but at european level without a world tax, would be extremely irresponsible. i would like to add one more point. i forgot to thank both the chairwoman, mrs podimat, and mrs danuta hübner, without whose work this report would have been a worse outcome for the committee. and the report came out really well, very balanced and calm, with some theses to think about, but without ideological excursions and ideas that have no contact with reality. i would like to add one more thing about the transaction tax. not only in the world, but also in europe, there are countries, including my country, whose banking system has worked during the financial crisis. in poland, we didn't pay anything to the financial systems. our financial system has already had greater safeguards from financial supervision, certain regulations that are only now being introduced at european level. it turns out that this system didn't generate any debts. the idea of a financial transaction tax would also burden healthy systems that are not guilty. i - as a european citizen familiar with systems that did not generate costs - cannot agree to this. one more thing about eurobonds. it's a good idea. we do indeed need to finance investment, but already today at the beginning of the journey there is a question that i am particularly addressing to the european commission, which will be examining this: how can we make this instrument cover all those who want to be in the euro area in the long term, and not just its current members?
the ambitious strategic objectives that the european union has set itself require a significant commitment of resources and investment. on the other hand, the economic crisis has increased the need for member states to seek savings. it is difficult to reconcile these two trends, and i believe that it is important and worthwhile to look for innovative financing methods. but i would like to draw attention to two particularly important points. firstly, innovative financing methods must be complementary to the european union budget. they should therefore be seen as supporting the ambitious objectives of the european union and not as a temptation to reduce the member states' contribution. secondly, the impact of the proposed financing methods on the competitiveness of the european economy or on employment levels must be carefully analysed. thank you, sir.
the financial transaction tax is extremely important for the future of the european union as a whole. this tax will contribute to better control of the financial sector. in the past, the lack of proper controls has led to crises, to a lot of damage that has been caused by speculation by banks and others. today, the costs of the crisis are being passed on to the citizens of the european union. in poland, for example, the vat has been increased, and this means that the cost of living for each family has increased. the introduction of a financial transaction tax means the start of activities restricting the functioning of so-called tax havens. the european union's own resources will be used for development, and the financial sector will be disciplined. more money in the eu budget means more opportunities, more spending on science, education, investment in new technologies, on cohesion policy and on the common agricultural policy.
in today's debate, it is important to stress that the mediterranean sea is the only sea in the world to be surrounded by land from three continents. it is a meeting point of many cultures, including those of the community and those of diverse third countries. this creates a situation where the most important issue in the maritime sector for the european union is the regulation of fishing rules, the issuing of authorisations and the development of control measures for vessels operating in this area. for over a thousand years, the mediterranean has been a major sea-faring and fishing centre, drawing on the rich marine life of the mediterranean. in order to maintain a balance and ensure a fair sharing of the exploitation of these assets, initiatives such as those discussed in this report should be supported. i thank mr rivellini for his report, which sets out in a concrete and precise way the principles for managing the resources of the mediterranean and can contribute to the protection of this fragile ecosystem.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. the union fleet has a historical presence in mauritanian waters, which has resulted in a long-standing economic relationship between the european union and west africa. this relationship results, inter alia, in the maintenance of stable jobs in europe and in the region. building such relationships brings the west african region significantly closer to eu standards, including in the management of marine resources. fisheries agreements with third countries, especially in the pelagic segment of the union fleet, are of strategic importance not only for the maintenance of that fleet. they are a source of raw materials for the processing industry and food for developing countries, particularly in west africa. those agreements are clearly mutually beneficial and their maintenance should be in the union's interest. continuation, but with respect for and compliance with the technical provisions of the protocols and the transparency of the procedures, is essential for the european union, mauritania and the region as a whole.
the european parliament resolution on the atlantic strategy is another step towards showing that europe should breathe through different lungs. we have already spoken here about the baltic sea strategy and the danube strategy, which is being continued and developed by the hungarian presidency. now it is time for the atlantic strategy. this is a specific strategy that only concerns five eu member states. but it's certainly important. however, it must be clearly stated that it cannot be used as a pretext and instrument to increase the union's resources for these countries and only to improve their use in the context of the development of the atlantic region.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to express my strong support for any action to promote an expansionary policy for the development of marine areas, including the debated demands of the resolution presented. the atlantic ocean, as a dynamic area for shipping, fisheries, green energy and scientific research, offers us great opportunities for efficient development. they should be used wisely, bearing in mind the important role of the community as a guardian of the environment, which the ocean ecosystem undoubtedly is. the union's investment in the atlantic ocean is a natural direction for our economic expansion. the development of the maritime transport sector is forcing us to work on an optimal strategy for the development of the atlantic region, including its port infrastructure. let's remember that this is the sea gateway to a united europe.
i very much regret that mr mcmillan-scott has stopped conducting the proceedings, as i have a request to make to him concerning human rights which is of great interest to him. as you know, there were mass arrests after the elections in belarus on december 19. the curious thing was that all the presidential candidates, that is, mr. lukashenko's opponents, were arrested. on february 19, aleś michalewicz, who was one of these counter-candidates, was released from prison. he said he was tortured. i'll spare you the description of the torture. suffice to say, they were very serious. in view of the fact that we are adopting a resolution on this matter this week, i would ask the whole house, and in particular the president, mr mcmillan-scott, who is very concerned about human rights, to speak very clearly and loudly on this matter and to demand that these shameful practices be stopped. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! last sunday, lithuania held local elections. the formation representing the polish national minority has achieved great success, despite the fact that poles in lithuania have been subjected to regular discrimination for years. unfortunately, they have not been given back the land that was taken from them by the soviet authorities 50 years ago. the possibilities of national education for the poles living there are greatly limited. their names are forcibly distorted, they are not allowed to write them according to the polish spelling. also, contrary to european standards and council of europe regulations it is not allowed to put signs of towns and streets in polish. i call on the european parliament to address the issue of poles in lithuania, because it is a clear discrimination against my compatriots living there, contrary to european standards.
i think it's a very special coincidence, because i'm going to be speaking on the same subject. the so-called competitiveness pact aims to bring the euro area economies closer together through deep structural reforms, and its main objective is to increase the competitiveness of the euro area and strengthen international confidence in the euro area. while the pact contains a number of useful assumptions, such as debt relief and pension reform, we must be aware of the risks it poses. firstly, the very form of the initiative announcement without consulting the governments of the other countries sets a dangerous precedent, because it perpetuates the stereotype of a quiet german-french tandem deciding the key issues of the union without consulting the partners. secondly, there is a project which has been adopted in many countries as another attempt to create a two-speed europe, with the most economically competitive countries at its core. while the initiators of the pact invited a non-eurozone country to join, there is no doubt that this is a purely tactical move. given the rise in protectionist sentiment in many euro area countries, it is likely that the introduction of the strict requirements of the pact will make the euro area a threat or constraint to the union's common market. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the knowledge of independent experts not affiliated with pharmaceutical companies should be used in the epidemiological risk assessment. the independence of the european union in assessing the severity of the ah1n1 influenza and the risks associated with it is crucial. we can't rely on the expertise of the pharmaceutical companies. the accelerated procedure for the marketing of vaccines against h1n1 which have not been sufficiently tested and studied is also under consideration. in 2009, pharmaceutical companies rated the threat of the virus as very high, while it was found to be less dangerous than the common flu. as early as may 2009, the who reported that the virus was not that dangerous. however, because of conflicting information, many countries have succumbed to pressure and bought millions of expensive vaccines that were not used and are now obsolete. there is a need for greater transparency in the work of the union institutions in disease management and for a review of existing procedures. greater and more intensive cooperation between countries is also important to strengthen the bargaining power for the purchase of vaccines. i would like to mention that my country of origin - poland - has been an example from the beginning of how not to panic and to demand guarantees of vaccine safety.
in writing. the report on the 2009-2010 a/h1n1 pandemic was almost a year in the making. the debate in the european parliament culminated in the envi commission's own-initiative report on swine flu, which highlighted procedural and ethical irregularities in the fight against the disease. our concern was sparked by the hype around swine flu by pharmaceutical companies, who portrayed the virus as very dangerous and poisonous. the virus has proven to be far less dangerous than the common flu. the number of deaths was 2,900 while the estimated number of deaths from seasonal influenza was 40,000 per year. the report on the evaluation of the management of h1n1 in the european union calls for the eu to be independent in developing its own assessment of the severity of the threat and the risks involved, rather than relying on expert studies funded by pharmaceutical companies. at the same time, the suspected, accelerated procedure for the marketing of h1n1 vaccines, which were not sufficiently tested and studied, is criticized. i would like to stress the need for greater transparency in the work of the eu institutions in disease management, for a review of existing procedures and their revision towards greater flexibility and avoidance of conflicts of interest for evaluators and decision-makers. i consider it a priority to call for cooperation between countries, which strengthens their bargaining power when buying medicines. however, it maintains the principle of voluntary purchasing of vaccines.
in writing. i congratulate member michele rivasi on a well-written report. i agree that a system should be developed to properly assess the risk and the strength of the virus in order to avoid future costs out of proportion to the risk. i am very glad that the polish government has not panicked or been effectively lobbied by the pharmaceutical companies. i think it is particularly important to ensure that the experts and scientists who give their opinions on the need to buy medicines or vaccines are completely independent of the pharmaceutical companies. i support the rapporteur's demand that pharmaceutical professionals should be consulted only and excluded from the decision-making process. it is regrettable that several tens of millions of vaccine doses have not been used to date in some member states. this has resulted in huge financial losses, and the lost funds could be successfully used in a thoughtful and effective way to protect the health of the citizens of the european union.
in writing. dear colleagues! the eu's priorities include common goals to reduce inequalities in health and access to healthcare. we know that there are obvious differences in health between countries, between people of different educational levels, income levels, occupational status. inequalities also affect gender and - typically - occur early in life and often continue for years or even generations. i would like to point out that mrs edite estreli's report deals with many aspects of health. however, it is worth noting that there is also a problem of mobility of medical services, which leads to inequalities in access to its services. a common, comprehensive european strategy is therefore needed, which will focus on resource management, professional registration, education or training, which should contribute to improving the quality and safety of not only national but also cross-border healthcare. in addition, i always stress that we should talk more about prevention and above all invest in it. we need to develop diagnostics, promote healthy lifestyles, exchange information effectively and invest in modern technologies, because prevention is better earlier.
mr. chairman, please! the competitiveness of world trade benefits all its participants, albeit to varying degrees. the agricultural market is the most sensitive, with production costs varying greatly depending on the place of production and, in particular, on the quality requirements and standards in the production process. in the european union, the bar is set very high, which makes our production less competitive. it's a conscious choice we've made to keep our customers safe. it is therefore not surprising that we want to impose the same requirements on goods imported into our market from third countries. the european union has made too many concessions, mainly in agricultural trade, at the expense of our farmers, but it cannot... (the president cut the speaker off)
the unwise agricultural policy of the union has made the production of high-protein crops unprofitable for european farmers. the protein deficit shows that the union's policy of opening up our markets to agricultural imports should be reconsidered. today, for example, soybeans are almost entirely imported from argentina, brazil, the usa and asian markets. soybeans are genetically modified, which makes them relatively cheap to produce. the issue of the admission of genetically modified agricultural products to the union market remains a separate issue. we're definitely inconsistent on this one. on the one hand, we are debating whether to allow or prohibit the production of gmos in the union, while at the same time we ignore the fact that we import genetically modified soya from third countries for feed production and are ultimately indirect consumers of it.
in writing. the eu's protein crop and feed policy needs to be reviewed. the current trade policy arrangements for imports of feed from the usa are also not satisfactory. the geographical and climatic conditions allow the production of high protein crops in the union to change its structure and even make it advisable for biodiversity and climate change mitigation. feed imported from third countries is not subject to the same strict controls as european feed and therefore we cannot be 100% sure of its quality. we don't know the exact origin of the raw materials that go into them. it is therefore urgent that action be taken to change this situation, otherwise our assurances of safe, healthy and high quality european food will be empty. another solution to the problem of protein deficiency in the eu is to relax the rules prohibiting the feeding of meat and bone meal to animals. no risk of spreading any disease has been identified for poultry and pigs. the possibility of using flour in livestock farming will reduce production costs, which is extremely important in view of the decline in the profitability of meat production. this would also reduce imports of high-protein feedingstuffs from the usa.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking mr fernandes for the guidelines he has prepared for the european parliament and the other institutions. i think that the guidelines he has drawn up combine the need for savings, indeed the need for savings that we know exists in the current economic situation in the european union, but his guidelines combine this need for savings with the need to ensure that the right conditions exist for good law to be established. i would like to stress that we should not forget that the treaty of lisbon and the forthcoming enlargement are introducing new tasks for the european parliament. it is therefore very important to put in place arrangements for the good of the citizens which enable the european parliament to function properly and seriously. i would like to emphasise that i will continue to hope for such cooperation with the rapporteur, so that the budget of the european parliament for 2012 is a budget that is characterised by financial discipline, but at the same time one that does not think only of next year and 2 or 3 years ahead, but will be able to introduce modernising tools, facilitating the work of the european parliament, investments that i hope will bring savings in the future.
i'd like to congratulate mr. fernandez on a great report. i also believe that the 2012 budget should be realistic and adapted to the current economic situation. my long experience in managing regional budgets and my membership of the budget committee have given me a particular focus on discipline in spending planning. however, i believe that we should avoid the apparent savings that could result in a slowdown in the economy and a reduction in its competitiveness. the conditions for economic growth and recovery from the crisis are increased employment and the creation of high-quality, sustainable jobs. the eu budget must support employment growth. the key to growth is not reducing costs but increasing efficiency and linking european funds to achieving strategic and measurable results. thank you, sir.
madam president! in this resolution we are raising the extremely important problem of poverty among women. it is worth remembering that it is women who bear the brunt of the financial crisis. they were the first to suffer the effects of the reduction in employment, wage cuts and restructuring. moreover, they combine responsible parenting and upbringing with a simultaneous presence in a very difficult and changing labour market. the situation of women in european countries varies widely. this is why solidarity and understanding for women in regions where poverty is particularly acute is so important. the issue of wage inequality is a sobering one. it is worrying that these differences also exist in companies that are owned and run by women. this makes one wonder if the reasons are not deeper and if administrative rules and principles hard law are enough here, or if there is no need to change the general consciousness and culture. nothing replaces respect and social culture. the law will not be enough either.
the reports on inequalities between women and men in the european union contain many suggestions on what should be done, what steps should be taken to reduce these inequalities. i would like to thank commissioner reding very much for the work she is doing at european level to reduce the disparities between women and men. however, a large part of this action should be taken at national level, at member state level. and here i encounter a lot of resistance from politicians, institutions, public opinion. this is why women's organisations often appeal to the commission for help. but grassroots action is crucial, as in the case of poland, where the resistance was broken by a social movement of women called the congress of women. we collected over 100,000 signatures for the social-legal initiative and, thanks to a wide-ranging public debate, we voted in the polish parliament for a 35% parity for women on the lists for all elections, including the european elections. i am very proud that poland has joined the ranks of countries that have parity and is the first of the new member states to make this significant change. now we're going to look at how it will affect women's participation in politics. i would like to make it clear that we should set new goals right away. and those goals should be to equalise the salaries of different groups of women and parity in other decision-making bodies. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! women are discriminated against in every area of life, they are beaten and raped. for every two european women who have experienced violence, more than a million experience it every day. the work on the anti-violence directive is ongoing, and at the same time there are countries in the union, including unfortunately poland, which are allowed to use legally sanctioned violence against women in the sexual and reproductive sphere. in the absence of proper sex education and easy access to contraception, women, including minors, who become pregnant are legally forced to have a child. a pregnant woman is treated like an incubator, deprived of the right to self-determination, health and privacy that every man has. banning abortion doesn't reduce the number of procedures performed. the anti-abortion law must be condemned as a form of state violence against women and institutional discrimination against women. if men could get pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament.
today is a day to remember the right to equal treatment of all people, regardless of their gender. despite much progress towards equality, the gender pay gap remains an unresolved issue. women are still in a more difficult situation, their suitability for work is often assessed by employers not on the basis of qualifications but on the basis of whether or not they will have children, and if they do, who will look after them during their illness. these are not the questions you ask men, fathers, when you're hiring them. so i stress the need for systemic change and action that changes the way society perceives this problem, that frees women from the inner conviction that they are the only ones responsible for raising children, and that helps to eliminate these inequalities. knowing commissioner reding's charisma and determination, i believe we can make this work. thank you, sir.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. equality is one of the fundamental european values. this is a positive value. the only problem is that equality is interpreted in very different ways. some of these are extreme interpretations, ones that ignore the real differences that exist between people. the interpretative possibilities make it possible for ideologies directly related to this concept to emerge around equality. in the past, crimes and even genocide have been committed in the name of a specifically and doctrinally conceived equality. in the case of gender equality, the risk of dogmatism is lower, but there are some exaggerated attitudes. equality between women and men cannot be limited to political declarations and legal provisions. it is very important to implement equivalent standards. to do this, a change in mindset is necessary. we must encourage and support education, information and promotion of good practice. we need to make sure that equality is a universal thing, not an exception. true equality must be in man, in his attitude, in his daily, reflex behaviour. equality is not an isolated value either. we should not accept a formula for affirming equality that excludes other essential values like freedom, dignity or justice.
in writing. i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteurs on their reports on the important issue of equality. the report shows that more than 20 million europeans, mostly women, have limited access to the labour market as a result of caring for adult dependants. we also know how difficult it is for parents to balance parenting with work. i believe that it is of paramount importance for both the social and economic development of europe that concrete steps are taken to reconcile work and family life. action is needed to promote the development of local systems to support families in childcare and care for dependants, and to review legislation and make wider use of new technologies to remove barriers to flexible forms of employment. i believe that the european union should do everything it can to unlock the full potential of its capable, well-educated women citizens.
i am very happy to be standing in the chair of our parliament together with my colleagues. six of them are vice-presidents of parliament, two are quaestors, and next to me is the chair of the committee on women. it is a special honor and privilege. i'm resuming the hearing. the next item on the agenda is the debate on the 100th anniversary of the establishment of international women's day. we'll start with a short film that sums up the history of this momentous day. can i have a projection, please? (video) the film is shown. ladies and gentlemen of the house, ladies and gentlemen of the chamber, distinguished guests! two minutes of film doesn't show everything that's happened in the last 100 years. we have, in fact, changed europe in that time, and compared to many places in the world, we europeans can be proud, but at the same time we know that this is not the end of our journey. there are still too few women in politics, here in the european parliament there are only 35% of you, ladies and gentlemen. this is slightly more than in national parliaments, but still not enough. fortunately, women make up well over 40% of the main decision-making bodies in our parliament. and we're very happy about that. the same applies to committee chairs. but what the european parliament will be like in three years' time, after the next elections, depends in the end on the national parliaments and the way in which they elect their representatives to the european parliament. it is our national parliaments that must ensure that the number of women in the european parliament increases. we are calling for this today, we are calling on our colleagues in the national parliaments to ensure that the right legislative solutions and the right decisions are taken to increase the number of women in the european parliament. we can also be an example when it comes to employing women. 59% of the staff in the european parliament are women, and more than 50% of the staff dealing with substantive matters are women. i have my own experience in this area and i can tell you that when i was in charge of the government in my country, there were about 50 women in the most important ministerial posts and in the most important government offices. and that's a record that has not been broken before, or in the last dozen years. as president of the european parliament, i also called for a large number of women in the european commission and in the highest positions in the union. we can be happy that the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy is a woman. the situation in european companies has also changed, which is of great benefit not only to women but above all to the functioning of these companies. it is also necessary to ensure that women and men are paid the same for the same job with the same competences. we have a lot of work to do here. we know very well that women can also fight for democracy, for human rights. i would like to bow to all of you here, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, and think at this moment of those women who in north africa, in the middle east, are fighting in a truly courageous way for democracy. we also remember that the sakharov prize has been awarded to remarkable women: aung san suu kyi, leyla zana and las damas de blanco. so i want to say again that we do not accept the deprivation of women's dignity in the name of any legal system, religion or culture. we cannot accept that women in europe and in the world have fewer rights than men. we'll protest when women are hurt. ladies and gentlemen! on november 3, 1793, 218 years ago, olympias de gouges was beheaded in europe for having prepared a declaration of the rights of women and citizens. it was the only reason. a century later, in 1906, women were granted the right to vote. the first country to do so was finland. we remember that! over the next century, we made great strides in gender equality. i would like to emphasize something very important to me personally, that march 8 is women's day. that's right, you did. but this holiday is primarily to remind us, for the other 364 days of the year, of the most important issue in europe today, equality between women and men. the rules we want to establish on march 8 should be in place for 364 days a year. this is the most important challenge we face. march 8th is not enough, we have to think about it for the rest of the year. thank you very much. thank you.
we are therefore closing the agenda item.
much is said about consumer safety in relation to food products, but it is sometimes forgotten that ordinary everyday items can be just as dangerous to health and sometimes to life, especially for young children. the main tool for controlling goods placed on the market is constant market surveillance and appropriate legislation is necessary, especially as regards the control of online trade. the proper cooperation of consumer organisations, national authorities, producers and traders is of course essential. but let us not be too hasty and consider the definition of a dangerous product calmly. remember, as well as the proper design and safe materials used in the manufacture of a product, it is important to use it wisely and to control children's access to it. thank you very much. thank you.
the lack of independent assessment by national and european health authorities is the main conclusion of the report on the control and management of the influenza virus. this leads to poor public health decisions. the opinion of former ecdc director zsuzsanna jakab, who said that a vaccine with so little data on it had never been approved for marketing before, is moving. this opinion was given in response to a question on the safety of adjuvants in the n1h1 pandemic vaccine. there is a need for greater transparency in decisions that affect human health. in poland, despite pressure from the media and many other sources, the minister of health has not decided to purchase the vaccine and vaccinate. you can ask what the cost of the stress is to the citizens who are bombarded every day with information that they should be vaccinated. one might also ask whether it is ethical to put profit before the health of citizens and, consequently, to undermine trust in the basic recommendation on vaccination that is supposed to protect us from epidemics. thank you very much. thank you.
our group supported this report because it is extremely important in the conception of the future common fisheries policy. in the context of the changes that lie ahead, it is extremely important to regionalise and build this policy on the basis of regionalisation. we're in a discussion about rejection, a disgraceful discussion about the law that is wrong. it should be based on this type of activity, i.e. regionalisation. and that is where we should be building the common fisheries policy. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! food security is a priority of the common agricultural policy. to make it real, the right proportions in international trade must be ensured. fair competition is key in this respect. european farmers and food producers have to meet stringent eu standards and pay big money to bring their production up to strict standards and rules. the union has virtually no control over producers and farmers from third countries, from which we import huge quantities of food. first, such agreements are unfair to domestic producers. secondly, this policy is also dangerous for the health of european consumers, because the union has no real control over the quality of these products and this must be changed immediately.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr papastamkos is very good. the union conducts numerous multilateral and bilateral trade negotiations with various groups, as well as the world trade organisation. and trade in agricultural products is key here, especially in terms of access to eu markets. the union is a net importer of agricultural products. we went from being a net exporter of sugar to a net importer in four years after the last reform. we import 70% of the agricultural products that are exported from developing countries. we have a trade deficit with the mercosur countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. we cannot undo the achievements of the common agricultural policy, which is financed from the union budget, by decisions which reduce the effectiveness of this policy. we must be convinced that there is a need for synergy between the community's agricultural policy and the trade policy pursued by the union.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for mr papastamkos' report. i welcome this report and am glad that the european parliament has spoken out firmly in defence of europe's food security, which is threatened by excessive concessions in international food trade. there are strong lobbies in the european union interested in reducing food production in europe and importing it from third countries, profiting from this export. this is evident in the sugar reform. the european union should not succumb to this lobby but oppose it for the sake of its own food security. the policy of bowing to this lobby in an age of increased food demand is suicidal in the long run.
mr president, i regret that because of the poor quality of the amendments mr häusling's good report was not able to win the support of the author himself. i voted against his admission, too. i think that the promotion of the facilities for gmos in the european union through amendments on the occasion of this report is unjustified, we should not promote gmos. europe should defend traditional, natural farming. genetically modified crops are a threat to european agriculture, to food safety and for these reasons i agree with the rapporteur. i acted like him on this one. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. − product safety is a major concern for consumers, who want to be sure that the goods they buy do not pose a health risk. of course, the safety of products depends mainly on the manufacturers and importers who place the products on the market. market surveillance also plays a huge role in ensuring that only products that meet the necessary requirements are placed on the market. the report adopted today is a strong voice of the european parliament calling for the product safety directive to be consistent with other legislation, which guarantees a better functioning market surveillance system, clear and understandable rules for traders and gives consumers the assurance that the product they are holding in their hands is in compliance with legal requirements. however, the number of notifications in rapex is worrying, with the vast majority of notifications concerning products originating in china. in my opinion to this report in the committee on international trade, i called, inter alia, for enhanced cooperation on product safety with major trading partners and for further work on the better functioning of the rapex-china system. i hope that the strengthening of cooperation with china will translate into the quality of the products imported into the eu market from china.
in writing. − a safe internal market is a priority for our citizens and this report highlights inadequacies in the legislation on product safety and market surveillance and in the way these are implemented at both eu and national levels. the current lack of legal certainty, whereby various legal instruments apply to different categories of products, while loopholes exist in other areas, is an obstacle to market safety and to the proper functioning of the single market. the general product safety directive and rules governing market surveillance should be replaced by a single regulation, as the legal instrument guaranteeing the greatest level of clarity and uniformity. for this reason, i have identified this as one of the key priorities for inclusion in the correia de campos report on the single market act for europeans, for which i am shadow rapporteur. furthermore, in light of the fact that more and more people shop online, legislation on product safety and market surveillance must now be brought up-to-date to include measures covering online selling so as to strengthen consumer confidence in this area.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? every year, the issue of influenza is raised not only in the european parliament but also in many national parliaments. i think that the report by mrs michèle rivasi addresses the h1n1 problem very broadly from several perspectives of cooperation, independence and transparency, which is extremely important in the event of a future pandemic. i believe that the european union must take active, rapid action, which is why i voted in favour of the report on the management of the h1n1 influenza.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of the vote on the report on 'innovative finance methods at global and european level'. two key issues were identified in this report: the financial transaction tax and eurobonds. these can be important sources of increased financial and economic capacity for the union, enabling the implementation of large and strategically important projects, including transport and energy. this may also allow private capital to be mobilised. a group of socialists and democrats have long called for such a solution. i am pleased to see that a clear majority of the member states have voted in favour of these innovative solutions.
in writing. - we all know how important health is. sadly, we often fail to appreciate it until we or a loved one suffers a serious illness. access to health care is just one of many factors that determine the health status of citizens in a country or region. other issues that have an equally large impact on citizens' health include: occupational and related material situation, access to education, old age or disability, belonging to a minority and many others. so-called social stratification and archaic 'class' divisions also lead to disparities in the health of europeans. our priority - and the european union's priority - should be to ensure equal access to healthcare for all on our continent and to reduce social disparities.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to point out that i voted against the edite estreli report 'reducing health inequalities' because of paragraph 25 in the text, which stresses, inter alia, that the european union and the member states must guarantee women the right to safe abortion. i would like to point out that the document in question deals with many important health problems and is an interesting material for further work, but because of the abortion aspect involved i could not vote for its adoption. i always stress that abortion cannot absolve you from thinking about the consequences of initiating sexual intercourse, because a human life deserves more.
in writing. −adequate tax systems are the foundation of sustainable economic growth and monetary stability. in developing countries, where such systems are inadequate or non-existent, serious economic and political problems arise. international legal standards supporting the proper functioning of tax systems should have a positive impact on the economic situation in such countries. but remember that in no case should you impose your tax policy on others, since each country must decide its own tax systems in the light of its current social, political and economic circumstances. so let's support good tax policy, but let's not impose it.
in writing. good governance in the field of taxation is a prerequisite for the efficient functioning of the state. to function in a global economy, developing countries must integrate and reform their tax systems. in democratic countries, taxes play a distinct economic, political and social role. they are not only the main source of state revenue but also serve overriding social objectives. they finance basic services like health care, education, social security and pensions. tax revenues in developing countries can sustainably finance their development and improve the quality of life of their citizens. however, it is often insufficient to cover the costs of basic public services and to fight poverty. in the era of globalisation, taxable capital is more mobile, trade barriers are disappearing, which reduces tax revenues and poses challenges not only for poorer countries. progressive trade liberalisation, despite its obvious benefits, reduces tariff revenues. it is very important to replace foreign taxes with domestically-earned taxes. while income tax is one of the main forms of taxation in rich countries, its contribution to developing countries is minimal. most people are employed in agriculture and informally, they have irregular income, so it's difficult to effectively enforce income tax.
in writing. − today, at its plenary session in strasbourg, the european parliament adopted a resolution on eu agriculture and international trade. in recent years, a number of events have taken place which may indicate a deterioration in the situation of eu agriculture. among other things, there has been a significant decrease in the union's share of world exports of agricultural products. the agricultural trade deficit is also widening, and many of the concessions made by the eu remain unreciprocated. it is therefore essential that the eu's agricultural policy and the common commercial policy follow common and agreed lines in the fields of agriculture, trade and development. the adopted document is an important voice in defence of the eu food sector. it condemns the european commission's overly conciliatory approach and stresses that decisions to open up new markets must not have a negative impact on eu farmers.
in writing. the current state of protein crop policy in europe is disadvantageous both for farmers and producers who are forced to pay for them in the face of turbulence on the world market and for consumers who buy meat and milk from animals fed with these feeds. the geographical and climatic conditions allow the production of high protein crops in the union to change its structure and even make it advisable for biodiversity and climate change mitigation. feed imported from third countries is not subject to the same strict controls as european feed, so we cannot be 100% sure of its quality, we do not know the origin of the raw materials that make up it. therefore, urgent action is needed to change this situation, as our assurances of safe and healthy european food of the highest quality will be empty. another solution to the eu's protein shortage is to relax the rules against feeding meat and bone meal to animals. in the case of poultry and pigmeat, no risk of spreading any disease was found, and the mad cow disease ban was initially introduced against this. the possibility of using flour in livestock farming will reduce production costs, which is extremely important in view of the decline in the profitability of meat production. this would also reduce imports of high-protein feedingstuffs from the usa.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? fellow workers! i voted in favour of the report by mr martin häusling. i am glad that the rapporteur has raised the issue of protein deficiency in europe and has provided us with important information on this subject. the case, as you can see, requires quick action. protein is one of the most important components of our daily diet, and a deficiency can lead to serious health problems. moreover, the studies presented in the report show that the cultivation of high-protein crops and the widespread use of crop rotation would reduce production costs and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. given the poor eating habits of the citizens of the member states of the european union, and also given the lack of experience of european farmers in the production of high-protein crops, i believe that we should focus primarily on education. i am thinking in particular of the dissemination of knowledge about the positive effects of protein on human health (the 'fruit in schools' programme is an example of a similar programme currently being implemented in the community) and the development of an incentive scheme for farmers who grow high-protein crops.
in writing. - in voting today on the report on equality between women and men in the european union in 2010, i supported many of its key provisions. i would like to draw particular attention to the question of parity in business. this is an important step towards the equal position of women with men at the management level of companies. it is not our aim that gender is the only criterion for board appointments. however, we want ambitious and equally qualified women to be elected to positions normally held by men, because research shows that this can contribute to better and more sustainable management of companies and, consequently, to better financial performance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution proposed in mrs nedelchevej's report because i believe that gender equality is a priority. i agree with the rapporteur who believes that action should be stepped up to combat this problem at european level, for example by developing appropriate strategies and funding instruments. among the solutions proposed, i find particularly valuable those in the fields of education, communication, the elimination of wage differentials and access to management positions. however, the main initiative in this area still lies with the member states. the role of the european parliament as the representative of eu citizens is to put pressure on governments, the european commission and the council of the eu to take coherent and effective measures in dialogue with organisations working for gender equality. in poland, the issue of equal rights is increasingly discussed, but despite the introduction of parities on electoral lists, much remains to be done, including in the social field. i think that the momentum from the eu would be particularly valuable for my country.
in writing. − despite widespread treatment and information campaigns, women remain poorer and more likely to be discriminated against than men. in our democratic union, which is concerned about human rights, such situations also occur. they earn less than men in the same jobs, and they're more likely to be harassed. they are more likely to be involved in child rearing, and therefore they do not have their own separate source of income, money to spend on their own development, pleasure to reward the day's work. the people who are raising future generations, shaping young people who will one day rule us, treat us, build us bridges, or take care of us in the hospital, they're not getting paid a fair wage. the amendments require legislation that should ensure free access to nursery and pre-schools, development opportunities for young mothers, and not allow women to be dismissed immediately after birth or return from maternity leave. the worst off are the women in the countryside. they live in an area where the income is much lower than the average of the union, or even the average of the country. they have no access to services and cultural goods. their work is hard and they do not always have the opportunity to rest, for example, on vacation. the frightening spectre of the demographic crisis should mobilise us to take immediate action to improve the situation of women on our continent.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i consider the report by rovana plumb on women's poverty to be a huge step towards improving the situation of women in the modern world. that's why i voted to pass the document. the issues raised in the report are not only the feminization of poverty, the reconciliation of family life and work, the fight against poverty among older women, the impact of violence on their situation, but, what i consider to be extremely important, the provision of finance, employment policies and social protection as a way of fighting poverty.
in writing. - i supported the report on women's poverty in the european union. in the last ten years, the number of women living in poverty has increased disproportionately compared to men. in the union, more than 84 million citizens live in poverty. women make up more than half of this number. this is a consequence of the economic crisis, as well as the existing gender pay gap, the difficulty of reconciling family and professional life, the longer life expectancy of women and various forms of gender discrimination, of which women are the main victims. i call for decisive action at both european and national level to combat wage discrimination and access to attractive job opportunities. i stress the need to strengthen the legal instruments to close the gender pay gap. the persistently high disparities in this area (on average 20-25% to the detriment of women) lead to high levels of poverty among single women, pensioners and widows. the europe 2020 strategy requires the adoption of union programmes for lifelong learning and vocational training for women in order to increase the participation of women in the labour market. these programmes should focus heavily on the professions of the future, eliminate stereotypes about female/male-dominated fields of education and traditional patterns in curricula.
in writing. - the issue of the feminization of poverty is a phenomenon that is increasingly observed and encountered both in europe and beyond. this is due to factors such as age, family responsibilities, ethnic origin and violence against women. the high proportion of women in low-paid or part-time jobs means that women are more likely than men to live on the edge of poverty. research on this phenomenon should be intensified at european level, as it will allow the development of precise and effective methods to combat poverty and social exclusion of women. the main method of helping women to escape poverty should be to give the appropriate direction to employment policies (e.g. flexible employment methods, vocational counselling, provision of training to improve skills, activities targeting women in rural areas). education also plays a vital role in countering this phenomenon. the eu's financial potential should be used to this end, and in particular emphasis should be placed on gender mainstreaming in the plans for overcoming the economic crisis and effectively implementing the europe 2020 strategy. eu action in this field should be an expression of social solidarity.
madam president, what we are facing is not a crisis of the eurozone, but a crisis of public finance in some member states who happen to be in the eurozone – it could equally well be hungary. why then is there to be an exclusive meeting of eurozone heads of state – 17 of them – without others being invited? why create unjustified dividing lines, which we abolished six years ago through enlargement, and why create a two-speed union? the european commission under you, president barroso, is the guardian of the treaty. what is the treaty basis for this exclusion? why exclude the willing and able? why not apply articles 5 and 121 to deepen fiscal and social policy? why not apply treaty-based enhanced cooperation within the treaties, with a central role for the european commission? the single market includes 27 member states, as does the challenge of competitiveness. the president of the council and the european commission should be a leader of the eu of 27 and not the secretariat of a select group of member states.
madam president! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an interesting and balanced report, although i have some doubts about certain points. i have doubts, for example, whether we should insist on increasing turkey's involvement in the south caucasus. this is a region where policy should be particularly delicate and balanced. but i have to say, the key thing is to change the approach to turkey's efforts. all that is coming out of the implementation of the association agreement, which is a good omen for turkey's expanding cooperation with the european union, should be welcomed in the hope that the door to europe also for turkey is open. today, from this place, that voice should be heard very clearly. we also expect that consultation and cooperation in the face of developments in north africa can now be an important asset for good cooperation with turkey. so the fundamental thing that we have to do today is to show the value of turkey as an energy partner of the union, as a political partner of the union for the future.
madam president! i think that turkey obviously has enormous potential advantages in the policy towards the region that we want to pursue, both towards the caucasus and the middle east. this new turkish policy in the region, which is very active, naturally raises the question of whether it will be more a turkish policy under the european flag, or whether it will actually be a european policy with turkish help. either way, this is a valuable prospect. i feel that this cooperation should be based on a much more pragmatic basis as soon as possible. i have the impression that the very protracted membership debate is frustrating both sides unnecessarily. for various reasons, they have been going on for a very long time and do not have a very good outlook today. i would like to thank you today for the report proposed by rhea oomen-ruijten. it is, as usual, a balanced document. i am especially grateful for the way the issue of religious freedom for christians in turkey has been handled. we have a problem with this all the time: the legal status of the christian community, the restitution of property and the possibility of training the clergy. we should remember that.
i would like to begin by thanking mrs oomen-ruijten, who has once again produced a very comprehensive report on turkey's progress. each year the european commission adopts the so-called enlargement package, and on the basis of this package we prepare a report assessing the progress made by each of the candidate countries towards joining the european union in the last 12 months. the commission considers that turkey meets the political criteria to a sufficient extent. recent constitutional reforms have provided an opportunity for improvement in many areas, such as the judiciary and fundamental rights. the package of constitutional amendments approved in last year's referendum is a step in the right direction, but the development and adoption of these reforms was not preceded by a process of consultation involving political parties and civil society. it is gratifying that the reform provides the basis for the institution of the ombudsman and the establishment of a national human rights institution. implementing these new proposals in a transparent manner, based on democratic procedures in line with european standards, will now be key. unfortunately, the negotiation process is being overshadowed by the neighbourhood. i think that the goodwill, the favourable climate and the support of turkey for the ongoing negotiations on cyprus, as well as the concrete contribution to a comprehensive solution to the problem, will contribute to the improvement of turkey's image in the european and international arena. thank you, sir.
in writing. every year we take part in the debate on turkey's membership of the eu. the problems are generally the same: turkey is making some progress in complying with eu requirements, but these are not satisfactory enough to provide a clear approximation of the date of accession or to say whether it will join the union or not. the changes that have already been made are beneficial. however, the lack of a clear eu position on turkey's accession creates a frustrating situation for the turkish authorities and citizens. of course, we cannot expect member states to treat this matter in the same way. but by hesitating, we make the eu look less credible. support for eu membership among turkish citizens is declining . this country could start looking for new allies, turn away from the west, which would be bad for europe. turkey is our strategic partner in economic, regional, energy, and military matters, and is a major player in the middle east. the issues that remain are: human rights and civil liberties, women's and minority rights, the rule of law, judicial reform, corruption, freedom of the press and of expression, and despite the efforts made, they still fall far short of european standards. the speed of the negotiation process depends on the speed and effectiveness with which turkey fulfils the conditions imposed on it and on the form of membership of the union that it proposes to turkey.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. turkey's membership of the european union is undoubtedly a contentious issue, with many opponents as well as many supporters. however, it is clear that the process of europeanisation has brought about numerous democratic reforms in turkey, which opened the negotiating framework for turkish accession on 3 october 2005. the opening of negotiations is a success not only for turkey but also for europe, because it was turkey's european aspirations that were the main motivation for reform. however, given the many advances turkey has made so far, it should be borne in mind that there are many problems that hinder its integration into the union. these include constitutional reform, freedom of the press, women's rights and the protection of national minorities. a modern democratic state must be based on the principle of separation of powers and the balance between the executive, legislative and judicial branches, on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, and on a legal framework guaranteeing women's rights and gender equality. i welcomed the declared readiness of the turkish government and the opposition to undertake reforms to transform turkey into a full-fledged pluralist democracy, and i hope that all political parties and society will be involved in the entire constitutional process.
in writing. turkey plays a strategic stabilising role in the caucasus and the middle east. it is also an essential element in the plan to diversify the supply of energy resources to europe. the policy pursued by ankara can be a model for arab countries in the region. the european union should therefore continue to actively build a positive relationship with turkey, inter alia, by increasing the financing of joint strategic energy investments such as the nabucco pipeline and by supporting the development of trade relations. brussels must show that it recognises the progress ankara has made in recent years towards integration with the european community. nevertheless, there is still pressure on turkey on many issues, without a solution, which cannot be discussed further in the negotiations. it is enough to mention the issue of reconciliation and unification of cyprus, ankara's recognition of guilt for the armenian genocide and the further development of the democratic system.
madam president! i would like to begin by congratulating montenegro on its accession to the european union last december. the country's political dialogue with the eu institutions is highly advanced, although it has a short history. the implementation of reforms in the framework of the bologna process and the improvement of the functioning of the labour market are examples of montenegro's strong commitment and willingness to change. however, as the commission communication on the montenegrin proposal shows, the persisting unemployment rate shows a gap between the skills available and those required, and thus the weaknesses of the education system. montenegro should therefore make every effort to ensure that all social groups, including those at risk of social exclusion, have access to high-quality general education and training, so as to equip citizens with skills that enhance their employability.
the discussion showed that montenegro is increasingly prepared to join the european union. of course, this is important for montenegro itself, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that there are two other dimensions to this process. the first dimension is european in nature and shows that the principles and values of the european union's activities are still attractive in europe. the second dimension is the dimension that connects to the balkans. it shows the other balkan countries the way forward, but also the way forward. it's a tough road, but it can be done. i have a very short question: would commissioner füle be willing to give us the next timetable for montenegro's accession to the european union? thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! the development of industry in the european union is determined, among other things, by the trend towards the creation of a so-called green economy. that's good, that's good. however, existing eu regulations operate blindly and ruthlessly, with the opposite effect of limiting this objective. the european copper industry is an example of this negative impact. both the climate and energy package and the benchmarks directive will undoubtedly lead to a decrease in copper production, a metal that is known to be in great need of innovative and energy-efficient technologies, especially for the transmission of electricity and heat in heat exchangers. i'm not going to let you do this. is it not time while there is still time for at least some revision of these regulations and an end to these destructive activities?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the participation of so many members in a night session shows how important the issue of industrial policy is for all of us and how right it is, given that there is a consensus, to put industrial policy, enterprise policy, in short the real economy, which is also the internal market, which is also innovation, which is also competition, which is also social policy, at the centre of our political action to get out of the crisis, to create development and jobs, because we cannot think - and i think i made it clear both in my speech and in the text on industrial policy which i presented to the commission - that enterprise and industry are only economic capital, because they are also human capital, they are the territory, the local reality in which they operate. as i said at the hearing before parliament before i was appointed as commissioner for industry, this is my vision, a broader vision that is the result of a concept that is part of the lisbon treaty, which is that of a social market economy. all our actions, in economic policy and also in the real economy, have as their ultimate aim social policy. our aim is not to enrich the entrepreneur, not to enrich the investor, but to enrich the investor as a means of giving answers to the citizens of the european union. it is now a matter of implementing and defending the choices we have made and are making which are contained in the europe 2020 document with strong action to implement the policy choices we have made. i do not hide from you, and i do not hide from you, the dangers that still exist. the speculative party is still alive and well and i do not exclude that there may still be attempts at a coup by speculators. it must be very clear that we are on the side of the real economy and that speculation which enriches only those who make a transaction is very different from the action of a company, an industry which creates wealth for many citizens. but we must remain vigilant, working and implementing our industrial policy: the european commission's industrial policy document therefore contains a series of competitiveness tests to check whether a serious industrial policy is being implemented, one which will enable our business system to meet the challenge of the global era. i shall also not shy away from the question put by mr van nistelrooij: i believe that the game should always be played on equal terms, with the same rules. president. - mr andriessen, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment tabled by mr andriessen, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give me a brief explanation of his position. our industries, when they play in europe, must see their own rules applied when they go beyond the european union. i believe that this is a good rule for the defence of the market, competition and growth, but also for the defence of the rights of workers in the european union. but also in order to defend the european industrial system, i think it is right to support the principle contained in the document we are discussing in favour of the trademark of origin. i think it is a strong signal that parliament is once again in agreement with the european commission. of course, much more needs to be done in order to reduce the burden of red tape on business and industry. as it was written in the revision of the small business act, we must reduce the time it takes to set up a business, reduce red tape which is sometimes excessive and which strangles the desire to do business, we must help young people to become entrepreneurs, we must work a lot on the training aspect, which is why i believe in the importance of clusters where schools, universities, small and medium-sized enterprises, large companies, research and innovation work together to increase the competitiveness of our business system. we already have 2,000 in europe, and i think this experiment should be multiplied. on the subject of access to credit, much has been done, much can be done, and i can only be pleased to see that the ceo of the london stock exchange - the united kingdom is one of the countries where much has been done in favour of services, banking and finance - will be part of the access to credit forum organised by the european commission in full, showing that the world of finance, or a part of the world of finance, wants to be part of the growth and development of small and mediumsized enterprises and our industrial system. this signal from london, and it is not the only one coming from the united kingdom, gives me hope that this reversal of trend in europe must be in favour of the real economy. as regards raw materials - an argument which has been raised in several speeches - i am absolutely convinced that we must continue on the road we have taken. there has been a document from the european commission, there will be a debate following what we are doing now on part of the raw materials issue. i am absolutely in favour of - as i said in the first speech - working through research to recycle raw materials, and also working to find substitutes for rare raw materials. so, with an activity also linked to our innovation policy, one of the innovation partnerships envisaged by the european commission is precisely the innovation of the raw materials sector. i repeat, recycling and replacement, and i believe that we must continue along this road to give concrete answers to our industry, including international policy initiatives, as i have said on several occasions. after the agreement with the african union, after the opening of a debate with the russian federation on the subject of raw materials, i shall go to latin america at the beginning of june to discuss the subject of raw materials in brazil, argentina and chile. europe must give a concrete response to the industrial sector, as it must to the small and mediumsized enterprises. that's why we need to keep working to implement the small business act. there is much to be done, we have asked all the member states to appoint an ambassador for small and mediumsized enterprises, as the european commission has done. there are positive signs, some countries have already mentioned it or have announced their intention to do so, and this in a broader context, because we cannot separate large industry from small and mediumsized enterprises. the growth of the real economy is linked to the internal market, industrial policy and sme policy. in conclusion, since the role of the trade unions has been mentioned several times, this is the first time that a commissioner for industry has brought together representatives of industry, smes and trade unions to discuss restructuring policy. it was the beginning of a new season of debate to see the representatives of workers and employers sitting together around a table organised by the european commission, in the interests of economic growth, in the best interests of all the citizens of the union.
in writing. globalization includes the internalisation of industry and transnational corporations. when it comes to eu industrial policy, we must ask ourselves: what kind of industry does europe need - corporate industry with its subsidiaries, characterised by large-scale mass production, or small-scale industry with a regional character? what about national industry? because large multinational corporations, sometimes richer than many countries, accumulate huge profits in one place, usually at the place of origin, as well as taxes, including vat. and for those countries where production takes place, apart from employment, there are only costs. for example, fiat a multinational corporation generates a statistical revenue of 4% of poland's gdp, but its profits and the bulk of its tax revenues feed into another budget. moreover, for political and national reasons, not economic ones, the company has recently moved the production of the panda car to italy. there's a conflict of interest. the social situation in poland is deteriorating, and it is improving in italy. multinational corporations have already wreaked havoc on polish soil, buying up post-war industry for 10% of its value. the mistakes of liberal doctrinaires, including balcerowicz, resulted in the opening of poland's borders to global competition by financially resourceful corporations. and it led, at a rapid pace, to the destruction of our industry, to the elimination of competing industries, to the elimination of our scientific base, to massive unemployment. this is now a belated effect on the old eu countries. we need a sensible industrial policy, but not economic nationalism.
the author. − access to rare metals will determine the position and competitiveness of european industry. if we don't secure the availability of these materials, we're going to lose the most technologically advanced part of our economy. that is why we cannot neglect any area of our policy. we must use our own resources wisely, which have been unnecessarily abandoned. we must use the instruments of trade policy to prevent free trade violations effectively. we cannot therefore limit ourselves to using the expensive and still very limited possibilities offered by the recycling of materials from used equipment. there are at least a few questions to be asked to the european commission in the context of the communiqué on raw materials policy. firstly, has the commission assessed the impact of china's protectionist policy on the european raw materials industry? secondly, what is the role of recycling compared to the opportunities that trade policy and our own recycling facilities offer us? what are the proportions between these three answers? thirdly, does the commission have an estimate of the cost of increasing the share of recycling in the european raw materials policy?
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, at the beginning of february the commission approved the update of the european union's strategy on raw materials, and this strategy is based on three pillars. the first concerns the supply of raw materials outside the european union through agreements with the african union. we have included the raw materials issue in the agenda for meetings with the russian federation and, as i said in the previous debate, i will be in brazil, argentina and chile in june to initiate diplomatic action also with regard to these latin american countries. then i'll talk about the relationship with china. the second pillar concerns the strengthening of sustainable supply within our union. that is why we have updated the natura 2000 implementing rules, in agreement with commissioner potočnik, so that the interpretation is not detrimental to extractive activity, but at the same time continues to respect the environment. the third pillar concerns recycling and the efficient use of resources. i repeat what i said in the previous debate, that in the context of innovation policy we are planning a series of innovation partnerships in various sectors, one of which is the raw materials sector. one of the innovation partnerships focuses in particular on what we can do in the field of recycling and substitution of raw materials. the new communication focuses in particular on the supply situation of rare earths and other key raw materials. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese exporting producers were not in a position to provide sufficient evidence to justify the imposition of measures. we are assessing the situation with a view to identifying the most appropriate instruments at multilateral level, including the world trade organisation and our bilateral relations with china. we have initiated a wto dispute settlement procedure against china regarding access to nine key raw materials in 2009. the case is at an advanced stage and the conclusions will obviously be very relevant to our thinking on the launch of a wto procedure on rare earths. at bilateral level, the commission has repeatedly raised the issue with the chinese government, both politically and technically. since the end of 2010, a working group between the european union and china has been established to facilitate dialogue on rare earths and other commodities issues. the union will pursue active raw materials diplomacy, both in the framework of strategic partnerships and in the context of policy dialogues, to ensure access to raw materials, especially essential raw materials. as i said, one example is the launch of a bilateral dialogue in the context of the joint africa-european union strategy 2011-2013, which includes a section devoted to raw materials. i have already told you about our relations with russia and latin america. within the union, the commission supports the search for key raw material deposits and this objective is particularly promoted by the promine project 2009-2013 under the seventh framework programme. as regards recycling, it presents immense technological challenges, especially since the amount of raw materials contained in many products is infinitesimal. our strategy is to promote recycling through actions to improve the implementation and enforcement of eu waste legislation. in addition, we will continue to support research and innovation in the field of recycling and substitution, as has already been done under the seventh framework programme for the financing of projects concerning the substitution of rare earths. in this context, the commission is exploring the possibility of launching an innovation partnership in the field of raw materials and hopes to present a concrete proposal in the coming months. we have also started cooperation with the united states on innovation and are looking at cooperation with japan as well. we will of course continue to monitor the question of essential raw materials closely in order to define the priority actions and we believe that the security of supply of raw materials is essentially a matter for the companies. however, we are ready to discuss, in close cooperation with the member states, the costs, potential benefits and added value of a raw material storage programme. that is what we are doing, and i am of course always ready to listen to suggestions from parliament to continue to have active action by the commission on an issue which is crucial to the competitiveness of our european business system.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. rare earth materials are critical to hundreds of technological solutions. they are thus an essential element for further technological progress and for the european union's increased innovation. their widespread use is increasing demand without increasing production. the world now mines 124,000 tons of these metals annually, and demand is expected to increase by as much as 50 percent by 2012. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to provide the necessary information to the commission. in august, they announced a reduction in exports of over 50% and the creation of strategic reserves. moreover, many of the companies that mine rare earths in other parts of the world are chinese. recently, australia blocked a chinese mining company from taking over a rare earth mine. this is a very serious problem with the monopoly of mining these resources. we must do everything we can to prevent the risks posed by this very important economic sector, which is the guarantee of europe's development and future.
market players are attracted to quick-return investments for competitive reasons. these are investments in plants that supply the products directly to the consumer. investments in the extraction of raw materials, especially fossil fuels, are long, costly and have a long payback period. so they can be bought by big investors, usually monopolists, who, as with rare earth metals, dictate their terms. and what do we find? europe cannot develop because of the lack of lanthanides, and especially of the samarium and neodymium needed to produce high-energy permanent magnets, which are used in wind power and electric car drives. it is time to take care of the security of raw materials in the european union, just as we do with energy security. this is not only the case for rare earth metals, but also for other rare raw materials and materials used as catalysts, such as renin and other platinum compounds, tungsten, molybdenum, lithium, selenium, etc. thank you, sir.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, we have recently become increasingly aware of the fact that rare earth metals are crucial for technological applications and essential for the development of green technologies (such as wind turbines, hybrid vehicles, etc.). it should be noted that their operation is extremely complex. the eu industry is totally dependent on imports of rare earth metals from china, which has a virtual monopoly in this field, controlling 97% of world production. china holds 36% of the world's confirmed reserves of rare earth metals (and 59% of the estimated total reserves), while pursuing bilateral agreements to secure the world's proven reserves. the eu industry lacks both access to rare earths raw materials and scientific and industrial expertise in their processing. moreover, as global demand for rare earth metals continues to grow, china has announced drastic export restrictions which was exactly what the japanese expert group visited the european parliament in february 2011 to present in a very interesting way. in view of the indisputable need for the use of rare earths by industry in the eu countries and the need for research into them, i call for a dialogue with the people's republic of china on increasing the level of exports of these raw materials and pooling our efforts to find alternative sources of extraction.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. with this item on the agenda you are raising a subject which will certainly occupy us in the coming months: what will the gas market look like in the next few decades? the question is therefore: what role will gas play in the coming decades for heat generation, for conversion into electricity, for industry, as a driver in the transport sector and thus also in our energy roadmap towards 2050, in which it will have a prominent place? the question is also how to develop transport routes, i.e. pipelines, infrastructure and terminals. it is a question of investment costs, and it is a question of what forecast you want to make for the price of gas in the energy mix. it is clear that the european gas market currently has a volume of about 520 billion cubic metres per year. some of this comes from our own resources, particularly in the united kingdom and the netherlands, but our gas market is supplied by imports from third countries to the tune of over 60%, and soon to over 80%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the gas produced in the community. tight gas and shale gas from the us are booming. ten years ago, no one would have believed how quickly and how much the in-house production of gas from rock formations, extracted by water pressure and chemical means, would change the market. the united states was a gas importer until a few years ago and is now a gas exporter with its own demand increasing. this is the first time that the gas market, which was previously a continental market, is moving towards a global market, where gas is supplied from the usa to lng terminals in europe. i see this development at the moment without any definition. the theme of 'avoiding increasing dependency' is in favour, and the open market and world trade are in favour. the interests of some member states are also in favour of this. on the other hand, it must be clear that there are environmental regulations for running water and groundwater, there are environmental regulations for the extraction of raw materials from the ground, there are legislation on 'hydrocarbon resources' with the aim of non-discriminatory access and environmental protection. and there is health and safety for our eu citizens. all this needs to be taken into account. we are currently seeing potential for research and, if necessary, for funding, first in poland and then in the united kingdom and germany. but keyword germany it's also about acceptance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas produced in the community is not used in the production of other fuels. the commission is monitoring the process and is also prepared to give an opinion. i think it will be three to five years before we can really give answers as to the share of natural gas from shale formations in the european gas market. we should follow this development without prejudice. but with all due respect, even if the resources are used, they will always play a complementary role. this means that the import of conventional gas from third countries such as norway, russia, algeria or by sea from qatar and other countries will certainly continue to be the main source of supply for the european gas market in the coming decades. therefore, infrastructure such as secure new pipelines and additional lng terminals will also remain important. i see a chance for our own gas production to supplement our gas imports, but it will certainly not be able to replace our imports.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i am glad that we have succeeded in initiating a debate in the european parliament on the possibility of using gas from unconventional energy sources such as shale gas, tight gas and coalbed methane. in the light of the recent conclusions of the european energy council on energy and the wide public debate, i believe that shale gas can become a form of energy diversification in the long term. the european union should not be throwing open the door, but seeing how shale gas extraction in the united states, for example, has already revolutionized the energy market there. assuming that this will have greater consequences for the global market in the future, shale gas extraction should also be a priority for europe. especially since its reserves, according to the second strategic energy review, exceed four times the conventional gas reserves in the european union. i'm not going to let you do this. the european union should carry out preliminary analyses of shale gas extraction in europe. the potential of shale gas has already been identified in germany, france, romania, bulgaria, the netherlands, sweden, poland and the united kingdom, among others. where possible, it should financially support research programmes that would allow the development of safe and economically viable technologies for extracting gas from non-conventional energy sources. let me ask you two questions. firstly, is the commission taking steps to carry out a preliminary analysis of the feasibility of the exploitation of gas from alternative sources in europe and is it preparing a technical and economic feasibility study of such extraction in the context of the work on the priorities for energy infrastructure up to 2020? second question: does the commission envisage support for geological surveys in the planned budgetary perspective 2014-2020 to assess the potential of existing shale gas deposits and extraction possibilities in europe, which will accelerate technological development in the field of exploitation?
on behalf of the ecr group. the successful commercialisation of unconventional gas has made the united states an exporter of this raw material with a potential that exceeds that of russia. the market situation has also changed. long-term, rigid contracts, price mechanisms based on oil prices have been replaced by much more flexible contracts, and the spot market is starting to play an increasing role. this is beneficial for individual consumers and also for industry. we all pay lower bills. europe cannot afford to waste this potential, this opportunity. especially as the eu's push to move away from coal is increasing the role of gas in european economies. this opportunity to diversify gas sources and to increase the share of own resources, thus reducing dependence on imports, has been created today in poland, france and germany, among others. there's advanced work being done to extract gas from unconventional fields all over the place. remember, this industry doesn't ask for money or special privileges. this industry, which is already investing hundreds of millions of euros in europe, needs only one thing: to be left alone and treated as equals. this is what the european conservatives in this parliament also expect from the european commission. i hope that we as europe will not waste this opportunity.
madam president! the alternative gas deposits, especially shale gas, have allowed the united states to achieve full gas independence over the past 10 years. they've transformed the united states from a gas-importing country to a gas-exporting country. they have also brought tangible environmental benefits, for example by reducing coal mining and the resulting coal damage. scientists predict that a similar scenario could be true for the european union. the exploitation of unconventional gas in europe is the best alternative in the face of parliament's high expectations to reduce co2 emissions and thus to reduce coal extraction. moreover, we have recently seen a marked increase in the price of gas from conventional sources. the situation in the middle east is also having an effect. so, if the oil is exploited, it will actually lower the cost of energy production, as an alternative to increasingly expensive and expensive imports. extraction of unconventional gas also reduces unemployment. let's look at the united states. they have shown by experience that it pays off. in one us state alone, pennsylvania, the extraction and processing of unconventional gas has created some 200,000 jobs and generated more than $8 billion in taxes, mining contracts and concessions for the local economy each year. so let us not be left behind and take concrete action to seize this enormous opportunity and potential.
it's good that we've managed to start a discussion about the extraction of gas from alternative sources, which has been neglected in the european union. potentially, in many countries, as the commissioner has already said, there are geological conditions for its occurrence. in poland, it is estimated at 1,000-3,000 billion m3 with an annual use of about 14 billion m3. europe cannot afford to neglect this subject, not least because of the argument that concerns the american market. and yet gas as a fuel will remain a key energy source for a long time to come, as the second strategic energy review shows. at the same time, the report shows that europe is dependent on supplies from third countries. so, given the current conflicts in north africa, for example, which are having an impact on the energy market, we should ask about the possibility of such alternative sources in europe itself. of course, the question arises as to the environmental impact of such projects. i think that it is precisely research into environmentally friendly methods of extracting gas from alternative sources, from shale deposits, that should be given a lot of money. europe could be a leader in this area too. and if we want to meet our environmental goals, we have to, on the one hand, get the gas sources, and on the other hand, we have to be so precise about the technology and the way we use it that there is no far-reaching environmental damage. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for his statement to the polish press that shale gas is an opportunity and an interest of the european union, because we do not want to be dependent on imports. but i would like to encourage the commissioner to be more enthusiastic about the treasure that shale gas can be. i understand all these environmental concerns. they are, of course, based on some experience. i would encourage the commission to be more active in supporting this research and to use the time which you say will be five years before we see the first results to help all those who are looking for methods which do not have a negative impact on the environment. this should be the commission's primary task. and more hearts, commissioner, for this shale gas that is in europe.
welcome to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. proszę państwa! dzisiaj zaczynamy wcześniej. mamy ważną debatę.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on the southern neighbourhood, in particular libya, including humanitarian issues (2011/2616 (rsp)). as you know, the situation in north africa is a key test for the european union. thanks to the european external action service, we now have new tools for action outside the union. we are convinced, of course, that these actions are fully justified, both in relation to tunisia, egypt and libya. today we're going to talk about libya, but not only about libya. we also have a duty to our citizens, who expect us to present a plan of action for the south, a programme of cooperation and support, for the short, medium and long term. we need to think about this right away. representatives of the libyan provisional national council are also present in the european parliament today. this is a great opportunity to make direct contacts and talk to the libyan opposition. we must start by overcoming the humanitarian crisis. madam vice-president/high representative, we are convinced that all the activities of the european union as a whole would be very supportive of the southern part of our continent and of our neighbours on the opposite side of the mediterranean sea.
the libyan accidents are another part of the sequence of events in north africa and the middle east. the eu has an external action service under the lisbon treaty, which has hitherto been lukewarm in its approach to developments in the region. i've asked her twice to at least send a mission. it is welcome that in the case of libya, such a mission has been successful. it aims to assess humanitarian action, but concrete political action is also needed. according to the un, 1,000 people have been killed in libya so far, and according to the human rights organization, up to 6,000. the turbulence in the region is translating into higher oil prices on world markets, which is very much felt by every citizen of the european union. it is in our vital interest that the union should take a firm stand at the next summit, taking action in tandem with us diplomacy. thank you very much. thank you.
fortunately, it is not as my colleague eppink said that in recent years all of europe and all of the politicians in the world have been kissing gaddafi. twenty-five years ago, ronald reagan had no doubt who gaddafi was. it took us 25 years to get to this day. of course, those kisses were not entirely without reason. the word "stabilization" was the rationale. today, instead of "stabilization", we have to write "democracy". it's an opportunity we have to take now. there's a summit in the next few days. we're waiting for his results. we can't afford to lose another few decades. our problem is not that we don't understand the times. we often say the right things here. our problem is that we're slow. our problem is that our actions are not effective. this is perhaps the most important opportunity and the most important opportunity for all the neighbors, including lukashenko. the point is, we have to be able to react in time, because 25 years from now, we're gonna be looking at pictures of kissing again. thank you, sir.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i think that what's happening in north africa, in libya, we have to look at it from the perspective of a certain historical process. not so long ago, we all witnessed and unfortunately participated in a little bit of the murders in the balkans, a situation where people in europe were killing each other. today we must do everything we can to avoid a repeat of that scenario. so i hope that at the next european union summit we will show the determination to act quickly, and things like a no-fly zone, or the de facto severance of diplomatic relations with the gaddafi regime and with gaddafi himself as a criminal, seem necessary. i think you also have to look at what happened in 1989 in poland and other countries. this is an opportunity, because today, these young people demonstrating in the streets of libya and other african countries, they really want democracy. we have to help them.
mr. chairman, please! we are amending the lisbon treaty, which we have just adopted. perhaps this should make us reflect on the fact that this treaty, which was so much advertised as a panacea for all european problems, has in fact been over-hyped. of course, the crisis which the union is facing at the moment requires very decisive action. the only question is whether what the european commission and the council are proposing is really a good recipe. this is not just a euro area issue, because it will affect countries outside the euro area. moreover, these countries, including my own poland, will be subject to decisions that are not of our own making. this is not a good sign for citizens who were once told that the lisbon treaty was the panacea for all problems.
mr president, first i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. it is quite heartening that we are speaking with the same voice as the european commission. most importantly i would like to thank them for defending the prerogatives of this house. to my colleagues from the ecr i would say that this is not grandstanding but legitimately asserting our role in this process. in times of crisis we need effective solutions, stability and predictability, and all these features can be achieved best when we avail ourselves of the community institutions. intergovernmental solutions will not, in the long run, lead us anywhere. most importantly, if we are serious about fighting economic crisis and being competitive, we have to do it together, regardless of whether a given member state is a part of the euro area or outside it. therefore i welcome the fact that, in our position – voted on yesterday in the committee on constitutional affairs of this house – we have agreed to open the mechanism to all countries willing to participate in it, thus dispelling the ungrounded fears of a two-speed europe.
a year ago, when we saw how difficult it was to ratify the lisbon treaty, none of us thought it possible to change its provisions. but the economic situation in europe has made what was impossible a year ago possible, with the consent of most member states. the economic and financial crisis has not only taught us about solidarity but also revealed the strong economic interdependence between the member states. being outside the euro area does not protect non-euro area countries from the budget crisis in the euro area. on the contrary, the financial problems of the euro area members have a negative impact on the situation throughout the union. therefore, the permanent financial stabilisation mechanism should be open to all member states, including those outside the euro area. closing ourselves off from non-euro countries, including through stronger economic and social integration, as proposed by the german-french pact for competitiveness, is conducive to a two-speed europe, which will not help us to build a strong, cohesive and competitive europe and will not create the conditions for community action, as brok has encouraged. thank you, sir.
mr. president, i have to go. fellow workers! my dear guests! we welcome you, mr. president, as our newest colleague. today, in a completely different role. you have sat in this seat many times, mr president, and presided over the proceedings of our parliament. we are very pleased that you are supporting the hungarian presidency today and that you are also creating a climate in europe that is friendly to the european parliament today, because you know how important this house is, how important it is for the people of our country, for the decisions that are taken in the european union. we will be voting today on the report prepared by mrs livia jaroka. this is an important issue for all of us, because the roma minority in europe is the most persecuted and at the same time the largest minority in europe. we have the good will and the means to solve this problem gradually. the report by mrs livia járóki will contribute greatly to this. we're sure of it. it is also important that we open up to the balkan countries. we remember very well, mr president, that during your six years with us you attached great importance to the enlargement of the union to the western balkans. there are many problems to be solved. the countries have to prepare themselves, but then their participation in the european union will also help us solve many problems. we also thank you for this activity! once upon a time, many years ago, as my colleagues may remember, you won olympic gold medals. then you gave your whole heart to the olympic movement and now, as a statesman, you represent your country and the european union, both outside the union and in europe. thank you for that! we're very interested in hearing your speech!
, president of the republic of hungary. - i'll speak hungarian, my mother tongue. mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen! it is with joy and pride that i stand before you. i was happy to return to this important arena of my life and career, to my friends and acquaintances, to the european parliament, where i was a member for six years. thank you for inviting me. i respect you, mr. president. what i wouldn't have given a year ago for 20 minutes of speaking time! it's a defining place where every politician, every public figure, can learn a lot. i think it's no coincidence that presidents and ministers come out of these benches. this is good news for europe, because it is a country that has leaders who have gone through the difficult school of european dialogue and who see their own nation's cause in a community dimension. and not only do they represent interests, they've learned to negotiate interests. this is europe's heritage of civilisation and its mission today. the european parliament is a living testimony to the importance of parliamentarism, the culture of public debate, in european thinking. the increased powers of the european parliament since the treaty of lisbon are a guarantee of democratic decision-making. it's a tradition of sobriety, of open attention to each other. this is why hungary, as the president of the council, is happy to work with the european parliament. because this is not just a chemical law kitchen, but, if i may say so, much more than that: the soul of europe. members of the house of representatives! europe has not only a market, money, politics and law, but also a soul and a spirit. i know that the day-to-day work here is mostly about the practical details. but recent crises have also shown where we end up when we approach people's destinies from a purely financial or technocratic perspective, forgetting the big goals, the principles that keep things in place. jean monnet, who is revered as one of the fathers of post-war partnership and who, as an economist, did not dream of a purely economic union for europe, said at the time: 'we need a genuine european aspiration. we're not forming alliances of states, we're uniting people. what jean monnet said 60 years ago is still relevant today: 'we are here to do a common task. we are not here to negotiate national advantages, but to find our own in the common advantages.' the only way to find a solution is to exclude individual emotions from our discussions. if we, the people here, can change our thinking, then the attitudes of all europeans will gradually change. it's been over six decades. but do we take these thoughts seriously? from the very first moment, this alliance was more than a community of coal and steel. the founding fathers created it as a pledge of peace, a mission to create a strong europe. i realise that it is not easy to bring together the half a billion people of a europe that has grown, a europe of 27 member states. i, if i may, see a special grace in the fact that hungary has just now, amid grave dilemmas, hard fights, and fate-changing questions, taken over the reins of successive presidencies. for it is then that the qualities of my country are most needed. true, the battles of the present are never fought for us by the spirits of those who lived before us. yet we hungarians can rightly be proud of the fact that - to use the expression of our composer ferenc liszt, born 200 years ago - we are sons of a free people by nature. we live in a country that, thanks to king st. stephen, has become a tolerant, welcoming, multiethnic, christian community, with a history of more than a thousand years of statehood and a deep love of freedom that has been proven by revolutions. as we approach the hungarian national holiday, the 15th of march, we must remember the many struggles of the hungarians - the 1848 war of independence and revolution, and yes, the 1956 revolution and war of independence, which many of you, the elderly, may remember, by which we won a kind of right and authority for ourselves here in europe. and that never let us forget the brotherhood, the solidarity. we hungarians have struggled too much to think without compassion about the struggles of others, to ignore the problems of others without saying a word. we are therefore paying particular attention to what is happening in the arab world, to the south of us. we understand the people's desire for freedom. a quality that no doubt lives in the heart of every man, every nation. it's not a miracle, and it's not really unexpected, what happened. no people's desire for freedom can be suppressed to the limit. he's gonna break out of there sooner or later. the european union has a common mission to protect the interests of its citizens and to fulfil its humanitarian obligations. it is a matter of the european parliament and the council of ministers to be able to take part in the negotiations. ladies and gentlemen! if i may say so, my dear colleagues and friends! as for solidarity, let me list some of the concepts of the schumann plan, such as: genuine solidarity, creative effort, solidarity of interests, deeper community. i sincerely believe that these are not empty phrases that you find in every eu document, in every speech. i'm sure it was the same deep feelings that once built european unity, post-war renewal, and ultimately brought the dictatorship-ridden countries of central and eastern europe back here, into this community. all the points in the programme of the hungarian presidency are aimed at these core values. everything we plan, everything we work for, can be summed up in these two words, these two words that have been worn out a lot, but have lost none of their power: responsibility and solidarity. please allow me to go over a few points. how do we understand solidarity and responsibility? solidarity is needed in finance. we know that protecting the euro is also a priority of our common tasks. this is a matter for all member states, i stress, for all member states, because the competitiveness of the union is important and depends on all of us, both within and outside the union. hungary is already setting a good example by putting a strong legal barrier to public indebtedness in its constitution. my country has committed itself to serious spending cuts to reduce its existing debt and bring its budget deficit below the european average. and we respectfully expect the countries that use the euro to regain their confidence in the common currency. the introduction of the european semester is designed to promote common competitiveness: to enable member states to communicate their budgetary plans to each other before national approval and to set country-specific objectives. i would personally like to see it introduced under our presidency and if it could be called the budapest semester. let me take up again the words of jean monnet, who said that the important virtue and aim of community is that nations - and i quote him - should, instead of clashing, allow themselves to be influenced by one another and naturally come to dialogue and then to mutual action. i know that there are still some points of disagreement on the mutual action, but i sincerely hope that these will be cleared up by the forthcoming economic and financial council. the magic word is prevention. this can help to avoid and respond appropriately to financial crises in individual countries. because it's easier to avoid a crisis than it is to get out of it. we have to take responsibility for the hanging. solidarity within such a community can mean a focus on the fate of individuals, on the fate of smaller and larger communities, on the fate of entire regions. the citizens of the union deserve equal opportunities. this is helped by a good cohesion policy, the main elements of which have already been agreed. it is important that europe does not fragment in terms of competitiveness. solidarity and unity in the energy market. the aim of achieving a single energy market is closely linked to cohesion. to reduce energy dependency, vulnerability and ensure the unimpeded flow of gas and electricity across europe. the events in north africa also serve as a reminder of the importance of reducing unilateral dependence and linking disparate energy networks. the completion of the internal energy market requires improvements, and for improvements there are resources, and for finding resources there is a broad consensus. responsibility is also needed at macro-regional level. just as the barcelona process in the south of europe and the baltic sea strategy in the north provide a framework for coordinating regional developments, so too are the countries of central and eastern europe looking for ways to cooperate more effectively. the danube region strategy, which is being outlined in some 40 programmes involving 14 countries, is an excellent example of how neighbourhood, often described as a geographical constraint, can also be seen as a geopolitical asset. we look forward to the danube, as one of our natural links, as a river of our eternal interdependence, helping us further with the strategy to be adopted in june. as a green corridor, as an economic potential, as a motor for joint ventures, as an emerging transport route and, yes, as a cultural hub. hungary will take the initiative in the development of the strategy and, among the practical tasks, will organise joint work on water management and environmental protection. we have to take responsibility for our borders. europe must be able to respond to the rapid changes in the world. but no change that occurs justifies acting against our own interests, running on either side of the boat, amplifying the effect of the already small waves. i know that many of you have raised the question of the southern and eastern neighbourhoods in one way or another, saying that the current situation dictates that we concentrate all our attention on the southern borders of the union. but to respond to changing situations - and let's face it, there will always be such changing situations - we can only respond well if we are, by the way, stable in all circumstances. if the union forgets this, it will be committing a crime against itself, it will be weakening itself. where we don't get ahead of ourselves, it's always easier to get caught up in the unexpected. and conversely, where there are good relationships, any new problems that arise can be handled more easily. the eastern partnership is neither a hungarian nor a polish priority. although it seems our perspective on the situation may seem more like a shared vision. we will demonstrate this most eloquently by co-chairing the partnership summit with our polish friends under their chairmanship. we must also speak of the solidarity we must show towards those awaiting enlargement. the union's founding treaty has always kept its doors open. it said that any democratic country that freely accepts its principles and wishes to join can become a member of the community. this means that there are clear conditions for membership of the alliance. on the other hand, we also have a responsibility to countries outside the union: to all those states which see membership as their goal and are making serious efforts to achieve it. the aspiration to join deserves clear answers, clear expectations, a clear timetable and a clear perspective for the western balkan countries, but also for turkey and iceland. responsibility for minorities. article 3 of the lisbon treaty states: 'the union shall be founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities'. other indeed, cultural diversity is the essence of europe, the source of its vitality. as a national declaration of this, every minority living in hungary will have its own parliamentary representation in the next parliament, which will be halved from 2014. it is in full harmony with the same principle as hungary today represents the fate of hungarians beyond our borders. we are in a unique situation. it is our constitutional obligation to stand up for the rights of minorities, language use, and self-government of the indigenous hungarian communities living in other countries. and could we call ourselves good europeans if we didn't? the european union itself provides us with a legal and intellectual framework in which this question is practically not a question. now, at last, we have every chance to overcome the historical grievances, not to mourn the geographical division, but to celebrate the spiritual and spiritual unity without any territorial claims. we've made it a law! a state itself becomes stronger, not weaker, when it gives rights to its minorities. it gives you a loyal, contented, self-aware citizen who, not only with his culture and traditions, shades and enriches diversity. finally, if the president has mentioned the roma strategy. the hungarian presidency considers it an important task to put an effective and workable roma strategy on the union's table. livia the good has done this before. i am convinced that this joint action plan is necessary. but beyond social measures, the key to eradicating poverty is the decisive rejection of prejudice and the creation of a supportive cultural and educational environment. all that is not primarily a matter of negotiation and money, but of our humanity and ingenuity. mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. ladies and gentlemen! we know that the rotating presidency is always primarily concerned with the continuation of existing processes. this requires two seemingly contradictory qualities - humility and indomitable spirit. it's the humility of the common cause and the uncompromisingness of its representation that will make it successful. and that's going to be the end of the semester for us: did we go off the beaten path, or did we bring the conversation back to the important, meaningful, constructive things? so our mission as a presidency is to be the engine of change. being playful in a team is what the concept of the presidential trio is all about. individual performance can be good, but only if the community, the group, is always the primary concern. we have to rethink a lot of things, because it has become clear that we have not built our new european life on a firm enough foundation. europe too seems to be coming to the end of an era of road-finding. i tend to think of it as a lucky combination of stars. the union now has a successive president who is making the very major structural changes that are expected of the union. large, malfunctioning systems that were thought to be immutable need to be reorganised, re-thought, and conditions made more resilient to crises, more conducive to growth and more competitive are needed. the fact that today in hungary everything is about the necessity of change, of renewal, only makes us more receptive to shaping the common european future. we have therefore an experience which makes it clear that we must return to the effective representation of the interests of the community. hungarians expect and demand that their leaders and politicians - to whom, incidentally, they have transferred sovereign power in an unprecedented way in europe in the past year - provide the framework for a new life with strong laws and a worthy constitution, and formulate the basic principles of our future. it has always been our guiding principle that laws that are in line with eu standards and european traditions, human rights and freedoms, should be the basis for our future. the current hungarian constitution, let me say a word about it, begins in 1949. a year in which the idea of a common market was born in the happier half of europe and its realization was within reach. in the same year, the hungarian communist government withdrew from europe with a lawsuit. it lost its independence by being entangled in the soviet sphere of interest for decades. we have been shut out of the real europe, the community to which we have always belonged with our traditions. they've even hidden the sun from us. what a state based on lies could lose, the hungarians have preserved as a nation. therefore, i feel it is important and meaningful that the constitution of hungary will henceforth bear this year. it includes the year 2011, when, as a sort of gift, as a satisfaction of history, we are able to hold the office of president of the european union for the first time. for the first time, we can really prove our democratic commitment, with a lot of work, in peaceful, constructive conditions, and we can put our hungarian determination at the service of the community. i believe that the time for a constitution in the life of a nation is always when it is strong enough to admit its past mistakes, to speak truths that will last for decades, and persistent enough to carry through what it has set out to do. it is equally important that we build on european foundations: i can guarantee, i can assure you that we will regard the european charter of fundamental rights as the guiding principle for the human rights chapter of the new hungarian constitution. ladies and gentlemen! ladies and gentlemen! i'm a fighter, i've been in the olympics, so i'm no stranger to the metallic sound of swords clashing. i do not think that today, on the european political stage, we should be debating who can force the other out, who can dominate. we are not empowered by history to play mere political chess and tactical prestige battles, but to serve a cause. strengthen cohesion, seek agreement. europeans need a successful, victorious and strong europe. a europe based on a community of interests and values, in which the individual nations are also strong. this is what the ambitious programme we call eu 2020 is all about. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude with a thought on europe by the very popular hungarian writer, sándor márai. quote: "we have to continue to build this way of life. it must be filled with all that is modern, and it must be preserved in all that is timeless. we have everything we need, but it takes faith and a strong will, faith in our role, will to resist the terror of stupidity and emotion. where does the european start? where's the hungarian? i think he's already started. that's the end of the line. all i can do is say, "let it be". thank you for listening.
president schmitt, those were important words, and your definition is very important. the european parliament means not only simple legislation but the very soul of europe. quotations from jean monnet on the spirit of integration, dialogue and common activity, common actions, are very important for us. it is very important to remind us of the schuman plan: grounded on solidarity, first of all at the beginning of the european union and then in the 1990s; last century in central and eastern europe, today on the financial markets and, in the very near future, in the mediterranean region. thank you for all your remarks on today’s activities and today’s challenges and threats facing the european union. thank you very much for your speech. we will remember your words and your remarks. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! water covers most of the earth. but we often underestimate the potential and the importance of the seas and oceans for economic development. the atlantic region is particularly important for fisheries, transport and energy. it is the source of nearly 50% of the world's fisheries, as well as a variety of mineral deposits such as metals, oil and gas. it is also the site of severe climatic events that can have disastrous consequences for coastal regions. it is therefore essential to develop an appropriate strategy for the atlantic region that will enhance good governance and contribute to the protection of the environment and the improvement of the lives of the citizens of the region.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the vote on the report on turkey. i am sure that any action that aims to transform turkey into a full-fledged, pluralistic democracy, with the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms as its main elements, deserves our support. the past few years have shown that turkey's efforts to join the european union are having a positive effect. the union member states should continue to support turkey in its reforms. particular attention should be paid to the most problematic issues, such as constitutional reform, freedom of the press, women's rights and the protection of national minorities. i would also like to draw attention to the problem of implementing the additional protocol to the protocol establishing an association between the european economic community and turkey.
mr. chairman, please! turkey is an important neighbour of the european union and the 2010 report shows that significant changes have taken place in this country. the constitutional changes that have fundamentally democratized life in turkey are undoubtedly very impressive. but there are areas where we would like to see more progress. the key here, of course, is to build relationships with your neighbors. without a solution to the cyprus problem, all other issues will remain deadlocked. the same is true of civil liberties, including religious freedom. i hope that the conclusions of the report will allow progress to be made in a country like turkey and that it will be recognised that this country is not only transforming in the economic sphere but also in those matters that are important from the point of view of civil rights and freedoms.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the parliamentary delegation to turkey last year, i had the opportunity to see firsthand the progress that the country has made in its integration with the european union. the turkish authorities' efforts to regulate religious freedom, women's rights, trade union rights, judicial reform, the amendment of the radio and television regulations and the improvement of civil-military cooperation are certainly to be welcomed. i also agree with the need to improve relations between the government and the opposition, respect media freedom, including the internet, improve civil rights including the right to freedom of assembly, and a fundamental reform of the electoral system. the increase in domestic violence and so-called honour killings is also a cause for concern. particular attention should be paid to the opening of the turkish-armenian border and to supporting negotiations on the stabilisation of the situation in cyprus. i support the resolution because i believe that the enlargement of the community to include turkey is in the interests of the individual member states of the european union, including poland.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer to the discussion on montenegro's integration into the european union that took place in this chamber. during this discussion, i asked the commission and council representatives about the timetable for this process, when montenegro could become a full candidate for membership of the european union. unfortunately, i received no answer to that particular question. i voted for the resolution to be adopted. because i think there are good reasons for that. firstly, it is an important resolution for croatia. secondly, it is a road map for other states that exist and operate in the balkans today. but i think there is also a third very important reason: it is a positive resolution, showing that the union's values are still attractive.
the world's industry is growing at an extraordinary rate. if we are not to fall behind china and india, we need to change now. but our small europe has more to offer the world than just another toxic factory, and i believe that it is right to invest in new technologies, in the development of medicine, pharmacology and innovative solutions in areas we already know, including the agricultural sector. and i'm not talking about huge animal farms, but creating new ways to make it easier to grow, to grow, to produce healthy and organic food, to get energy from alternative sources. this is the kind of investment that the modern economy needs. innovative solutions are also a response to the demographic changes of an ageing europe. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! industrial products account for almost three quarters of european exports, employing 57 million citizens, not counting additional jobs. industry is therefore of great importance to our economy, affecting other sectors as well. learning from the recent economic crisis and increasing competition on world markets, it is necessary to take the necessary measures to maintain the strong position of european industry and its systematic development. in this respect, the europe 2020 strategy project seems to be an attempt at a new approach, taking full advantage of the possibilities of sustainable modernisation and the development of the industrial base of the member states, while ensuring high quality work. this creates opportunities for europe to maintain its leadership in key sectors of the economy. the integrated industrial policy aimed at gradual sustainability, the transition from a predominantly manufacturing activity to a knowledge-based industry, is particularly promising. i therefore fully support this resolution.
the resolution, which is the result of a debate on the real economy, deserved the most support. recently, it has been the challenge of globalisation to european industrial policy, to real production in europe. how to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in terms of job creation and countering the relocation of industrial policy, was one of the key issues that accompanied the debate on this resolution. the question of whether europe has to lose its traditional industries is that it does not have to, as the debate on smes at the previous session showed. the availability of raw materials, including energy, is a major challenge. we need to pay a lot of attention to innovation and the industrial application of research. the use of synergies between the various eu policies, including industrial policy, agricultural policy and trade policy, is also a major challenge. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendment no 1 to the draft annual work calendar of the european parliament for 2012 and 2013. i am aware of the symbolic nature of the plenary sessions in strasbourg, but in the present financial crisis in europe, savings must be sought, and this is what this amendment means. the combination of two sessions in one week is first and foremost a tribute to the european citizens who pay with their taxes for the costly and time-consuming travel of not only members but also officials and assistants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 1 which proposed to combine the two october sessions and to hold them during the same week of the european parliament's 2012 session. i am opposed to the division of the european parliament into three chambers. this will save time and money and thousands of tons of co2 will be released into the atmosphere. savings are necessary. the amendment will see not only meps but also several thousand of the ep's daily staff working in brussels, as well as journalists, lobbyists, staff from the european commission and the administrations of the member states, come to strasbourg 11 instead of 12 times. it'll cut down on transportation, food, hotels...
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament adopted a resolution on the european strategy for the atlantic ocean region, calling on the european commission to develop this strategy as soon as possible. the strategy is another european project that will not focus on solving the problems of one country but of the entire atlantic region, which includes five member states. it is important to note that the strategy should be bottom-up. the geostrategic location of the area allows for the development of cooperation in the fields of maritime security, international trade, fisheries, as well as the protection of the marine environment and the conservation of biodiversity. i think that the european commission should be asked what funds will be allocated to implement the strategy, which is particularly important in relation to the establishment of a new financial perspective. in my view, the process of implementing the strategy and the possible need to create additional financial instruments are also important.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament adopted a resolution today on the process of integration of montenegro into the european union. the issue of enlargement to include the western balkans was confirmed in athens in 2003, and parliament expressed the hope that accession negotiations would begin this year. the document noted the significant improvement in the political and social situation in montenegro, as well as the positive approach of the country towards european integration. unfortunately, montenegro has still not been able to tackle the problems of corruption and organised crime. i believe that the issue of ethnic discrimination is a very important and also an unresolved problem, as is the issue of discrimination against women, who are underrepresented in decision-making processes and in public administration. the government's fight against censorship and attempts to ensure freedom of expression is also positive, but attacks against journalists and activists continue to be reported.
in writing. - the roma are one of the most culturally rich nations in the world. they vary the landscape of different countries. however, stereotypes and discrimination are harmful to roma and unfortunately do not help to establish a dialogue. and that dialogue is necessary. we live side by side, and we have to at least accept each other to eliminate the phenomenon of exclusion. to this end, education should be supported so that there are no obstacles to roma children learning with other children in european schools. the eu should also support initiatives that allow roma to take up legal employment and to better acclimate themselves in the country where they currently reside. we fear what we don't know. if we know more about the rich roma culture and customs, integration will surely happen faster.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the global market is responding to the need to meet the demands of the established consumption patterns of both developed and developing societies. however, there is a 'competitiveness at any cost', i.e. a competitiveness that is not only shaped by industrial innovation and changes in consumption patterns. these adverse effects of competitiveness include: the energy- and raw-material-consumption model imposed by industry; competition based not on the superiority of solutions but on the financial advantage of rich monopoly corporations; cutting-edge competitiveness that concerns only the final processing phase and not gross competitiveness; i.e. taking into account the preparation of raw materials for production; the takeover of raw-material and energy markets by transnational, often non-european, corporations; the increase in energy (and raw-material) prices through regulation of the eu member states' emissions trading systems; non-competitive competition imposed mainly by multinational, transnational, including financial corporations. i voted in favour of this report as a good start to a very important discussion on the future of a competitive european industry, and therefore of europe.
in writing. - industrial policy in the era of globalisation is becoming a major problem for the union and for individual member states. the pursuit of minimising production costs and prices is becoming the reason for closing down industrial production in the union, relocating factories outside the union and for importing. this leads to negative consequences: loss of capacity for industrial development, technical education, innovation and then dependence on other countries. entire industrial sectors are collapsing, such as the shipbuilding industry in poland. the increasing environmental requirements imposed only in the eu, the tolerance of dumping by asian producers, are accelerating the deindustrialisation of europe. we need a wise policy to preserve europe's industrial character.
in writing. europe's industry is not only facing the effects of the economic crisis, but also the new challenges of the era of globalisation. the ever-changing economic trends require business leaders to respond appropriately. the emerging economies are changing the balance of power in international markets. with the development of the knowledge society, the role of research and innovation is also increasing, which translates into economic growth and competitiveness. the challenges facing the eu economy include demographic change and a slowdown in productivity. the main objectives facing eu industry are to increase competitiveness and innovation. to achieve these goals, a series of parallel actions must be taken. it is necessary to continue work towards the single market and the harmonisation of customs and tax rules. the bureaucratic burden on entrepreneurs should be reduced, the legal framework should be simplified. it is worth strengthening cooperation between entrepreneurs through the creation of clusters, networks and centres of excellence and promoting synergies between universities and business. alternative mechanisms such as risk-sharing in public-private partnership projects, leverage or domino effect may also be helpful. supporting smes, the backbone of european industry, through financial assistance for innovation and technology transfer and the integration of innovation and sustainability criteria in public procurement will be key. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
mr president, madam president, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you down. congratulations to mr. belder on his excellent report. i have the impression that there is something like a double standard in the european union, where we are very strongly critical of those regimes that are weakening and collapsing. the example of libya is very characteristic. we are also getting our mouths watering by relying too often on various pretexts, including the economic interests of certain countries, when it comes to those regimes that are doing well. the iranian regime is doing well and this criticism is absolutely justified. what has been happening in iran for years is absolutely unacceptable. the european parliament must have a say in this matter. he has to talk about the death penalty, about torture, about how those hopes that were associated with the fall of shah reza shah pahlavi were completely unrealized. on the contrary, it's worse.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i'd like to congratulate mr. belder on an excellent report. it's good that it was changed during the negotiations. i think the amendments have given it the right sound. the entire international community, which is concerned about democracy and human rights, is appalled by what has been happening in iran for many years. we're looking for the right solutions. they must, of course, come from inside iran. hence the european union's support for the iranian opposition is obvious. i think there are three elements that we should address now that could affect iran's policy. the first is the policy of cooperation with turkey in relation to iran. turkey is an important partner of the european union. it is a country ruled by a party that values islamic tradition, but it is also implemented in a way that is much closer to european standards. the second issue is cooperation with russia. we should put pressure on russia to work even better with the european union and the united states, so that cooperation with iran does not look like it does today. the third and last and very serious issue is the issue of the missile shield. the european union should work with nato and the united states to get this missile shield in europe.
i'm not going to let you down. i admit that i was not a big fan of you taking the honorable position that you are today, but i have to say that i am pleasantly surprised by at least three things that you mentioned in your speech. i'd like to emphasize that and commend you. well, first of all, you have stressed the universality of human rights. i fully agree that wherever we are, whether in strasbourg, libya, russia or iran, this universality must be respected. i'm so glad we're on the same page. the second thing is that you're highlighting this religious intolerance, or rather fighting it. indeed, the european parliament resolution calls on the representatives of the member states to address these issues. i'm very glad you brought that up. and the third thing i welcome as a member of the delegation for relations with belarus is the possibility you have highlighted of intervening in belarusian affairs where basic human rights are being violated. there's a chance we could get a regional council. i'm very glad you're supporting this, because this is our job. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. it is good that the 16th session of the unhrc, in addition to the general issue of respect for human rights, included reports and panels on children's rights, violence against women, the rights of national, ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities and the fight against terrorism. the session will also include an interregional declaration on lgbt rights. the unhrc needs new legal tools to monitor continuous human rights violations and to respond quickly to emergencies arising from the political situation in the world (tunisia, egypt, iran, belarus. i therefore support the idea of independent 'alarms' proposed in the resolution, which would allow for a rapid response to human rights crises. i welcome the creation of a new directorate for human rights and democracy and the establishment of a brussels-based eu council working group on human rights, as this will allow for better coordination and monitoring of eu human rights policy. the eu high level special representative for human rights should play a major role. the unhrc panels should also be organised outside the session and the sessions themselves moved to other regions, including where there are ongoing conflicts. finally, i also call on the eu member states to respect human rights in their own internal policies, as failure to do so weakens the union's position in the unhrc.
as a member of the european parliament, i have had the opportunity over the past few months to visit several countries in the middle east region, including syria, the palestinian authority and israel. and i heard from one of the leaders in that region, and he said, "i would like to tell the leaders of europe to get more involved, because if that engagement is successful, that political success is what you get the nobel peace prize for". i would like to dedicate these words to the high representative. but seriously, all i heard from them was the same thing: the european union needs to be more involved in the middle east process. for example, the united states has certain political constraints, but on the other hand, our engagement must include working with a partner like the united states, for example, because of the strategic relationship of the united states with israel. secondly, we should all, the high representative should, make use of all the possibilities that the european union has to offer. for example, last week there was an unprecedented joint meeting of the polish and israeli governments in the form of an intergovernmental consultation. prime minister tusk and minister sikorski were in israel. this is the kind of opportunity we should be taking.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. in speaking to politicians in the middle east, i often hear the phrase: the european union is a payer, not a player it`s a payer not a player. it was also said that the union must be a player and not just a payer, because the european union is the only institution in the quartet that everyone trusts. russia has the trust of some, the other side of the conflict has more trust in the united states. the european union is predestined. it has been said that the union has no common policy because the member states have very different attitudes towards the parties to the conflict and towards the ways in which they resolve these conflicts. we have a unique opportunity now, because you are the high representative, we have the external services, and we can form such a common policy towards this conflict. this week, the commission announced a new document on aid to the mediterranean countries on the partnership for democracy and shared prosperity with the southern mediterranean. i would urge us to look at our policies in the middle east and in eastern europe and draw the lessons from them in constructing a new policy towards the mediterranean countries. the european union has provided assistance to institutions in poland, in ten other member states. she was helping civil society in the middle east. so let's use this experience to build a new policy.
this situation showed that europe was not really prepared for this crisis. experts say that contrary to what we've heard in this room, our response was over the top and some of the flights could have been allowed to go ahead. but it does show the extent of the paralysis we've been in. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can see that. the answer to this problem in aviation is certainly better coordination and a stronger role for the european agency easa. and it is good that the european parliament recently, in november, adopted a regulation on this matter. it was a step in the right direction.
i'll say it again: 100,000 flights canceled, 10 million passengers who didn't reach their destinations, 2 billion airline losses. i don't remember a similar air traffic shutdown in europe ever happening before. the european commission, under pressure from the public and the aviation industry, announced swift and decisive action as early as last april. unfortunately, the volcanic ash has fallen, and so have the commission's ambitions. to date, no european crisis management plan has been developed for similar situations. nor has there been a common position agreed between safety experts, aircraft manufacturers, airlines or market regulators. so the questions to ask today are: what has been done in the last year? if a similar volcanic eruption were to occur today, would we react differently than we did a year ago? when will we know the real solutions? we have a continuous dialogue on the single european sky, on body scanners and fluid scanners, on procedures for natural disasters such as volcanic eruptions or severe winter storms. meanwhile, air traffic over europe is increasing year by year. the time for discussion is running out, and the european skies need good solutions for the future now, and i warmly encourage the commission to do so. thank you very much. thank you.
europe was not prepared for such chaos, and the institutions responsible for managing the crisis were not up to the challenge. the airline industry lost $400 million a day as a result of the shutdown. in addition to the loss of ticket revenue, there are the costs of accommodation, food and transportation for passengers stranded at airports. seismic and volcanic activity is not new in the world, and future volcanic eruptions are possible. unfortunately, there is no cure for this condition. the european union should focus on providing its citizens with alternative means of transport to aviation at such times. the ten-t network being developed in the union would be a good solution to create a common railway network and focus on improving high-speed rail, which would probably help to solve these problems effectively. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their understanding, knowing that i am not familiar with this issue. members, you are right that my colleague vice-president siim kallas is doing an excellent job and you will receive written answers to your specific questions where necessary. having said that, i would like to thank you for an interesting debate, particularly as, like you, i was personally affected by events in various ways. therefore i would like to conclude by stating the following. last year’s volcanic ash crisis clearly highlighted the need for us to work together to find solutions to avoid a repeat of the airspace closures we witnessed. that being said – and as was the case in april last year – actions taken in this regard cannot diminish the levels of safety that the aviation industry is renowned for around the world. crisis situations are not new to the european union and the eu response to this crisis was timely and efficient. it showed the importance of centralised european action in a widespread crisis situation. looking specifically at the eyafjallajökull event, the concept, aims and objectives of the single european sky initiative have once again been highlighted. as recognised by the council of ministers, there is a need to accelerate its implementation to derive all the benefits of its application. from the commission perspective, the focus remains on ensuring a harmonised approach and application of agreed measures to future crisis situations. this will be of benefit to all citizens in europe. it is our intention to revise air passenger rights in 2012. last but not least, the participation of the industry is essential in order to facilitate a coordinated decision-making process.
in writing. today, the european parliament held a debate on the volcanic dust crisis. the eruption of the icelandic volcano last year had its consequences in the form of serious disruptions of air traffic over europe. it caused major economic losses and directly affected 10 million passengers. while it is certainly not in the union's interest to oppose the forces of nature, better forecasting the possibility of a similar crisis in the future would certainly reduce economic losses and improve the comfort of union citizens. the debate focused on progress in the implementation of investments in technical equipment and real-time weather forecasting systems. questions were asked to the european commission about the transparency of the joint decision-making processes and better coordination of actions. it also considered the implications of future traffic growth and what action should be taken to make the european aviation safety agency responsible for implementing operational changes.
colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, tomorrow, on 11 march, we will be marking the european day for the victims of terrorism for the seventh time. the day is dedicated to more than 5 000 victims of terrorism in europe. terrorists declare war against civilians. they strike in places where ordinary people should feel safe in their countries. it is shameful, deceitful and cowardly. that is why terrorism can never be justified. we europeans are strong and united. no terrorist or criminal organisation is able to weaken our faith in the values which underpin our united europe. ladies and gentlemen, please rise to observe a minute’s silence for the victims of terrorism. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
i'll start by reading you a written statement. the first, tabled by mr tarabella, mrs bastos, mr canfina, mrs vergiat and mrs weber, on the establishment of european statutes for mutual societies, associations and foundations. it was signed by a majority of meps. it will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at this part-session, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes, in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure. the second written statement was submitted by ms fiona hall, ms inés ayala sender, ms isabelle durant, mr dieter-lebrecht kocha and ms sabina wils on the truck collision. it was signed by a majority of meps. it will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at this part-session, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes, in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure.
i want to assure the hon. member that this matter is being pursued at all times to enhance the security of our chamber.
the next item is the vote. (for other votes, see minutes)
ladies and gentlemen! the proposal is quite clear. i understand the epp group has withdrawn its resolution. so we have only one resolution put forward by several political groups. i would like to ask the representatives of the political groups for their views on this matter.
ladies and gentlemen! fellow workers! i understand that the four political groups are not withdrawing their declaration. we could end the debate on that and move on to the vote. but i understand that the alde group also wants to speak. please, please!
ladies and gentlemen! we now move on to the resolution of the four political groups.
i'm speaking to mrs. gomes. do you have any specific amendments? because we can only consider a specific amendment, not a general appeal.
all right, i got it. this is a general observation. thank you, madam!
mr. chairman, please! with all due respect, we heard your message that the resolution was passed, but i didn't see the result, at least not on my screen, or the one in front of me. i think we should also know the results, the specific result of this vote.
i give you the result: 316 voted in favour, 264 against, 33 abstained.
thank you for your statement. this news surely gives us great strength in our efforts. - after the vote on paragraph 8:
we'll look into it. thank you for your attention!
madam president! we are witnessing the fall of one of the last long-standing regimes in post-war history. but muammar gaddafi refused to resign with honor, and in the name of maintaining his dictatorial rule, declared war on his people. by pointing weapons at his own citizens, he challenged the very foundations upon which our civilization stands today. he committed a crime against humanity. we therefore have a duty to support the libyan people in their struggle for freedom, democracy and fundamental human rights. we must act in cooperation with the un to bring stability to libya and to punish those responsible for crimes, including colonel gaddafi. the need to provide humanitarian assistance to civilians and shelter for libyan refugees is becoming particularly urgent. twenty-five years ago, the reagan administration tried to end the gaddafi regime. today we must take all the measures permitted by international law to remove him from power, which is why i support the resolution of this parliament.
madam president! iran, ruled by mahmoud ahmadinejad, is a cause for serious concern because of its nuclear ambitions. the continued refusal to cooperate with the international atomic energy agency and the resulting lack of control over iran's nuclear programme make it necessary to consider taking decisive action against that country. since it is an authoritarian regime, the possibility of danger to other countries, especially neighbouring ones, must be taken into account. the long-standing anti-israel rhetoric of the iranian president is of particular concern. i find the iranian authorities' position on this issue unacceptable and i strongly condemn it. by voting in favour of the resolution, i express my opposition to iran's aggressive foreign policy and also call for the release of political prisoners, an end to the persecution of human rights defenders and cooperation with international organisations, including un agencies. at the same time, i support the diplomatic efforts of turkey and brazil to resolve the nuclear issue.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the resolution on the southern neighbourhood, in particular the situation in libya. people are dying in libya fighting for their country's freedom. we should support them. our resolution is such support because it unequivocally condemns the dictator and supports those who want to make fundamental changes in libya. we don't know when or how the civil war will end. we would like it to end quickly and to end with a victory for the pro-democratic forces. the european union should immediately contact the provisional national council and begin the process of its official recognition. it should also encourage libyans to undertake a transformation towards democracy. thank you very much. thank you.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? in the last 10 months, the european parliament has adopted a total of three resolutions on religious freedom in the islamic republic of pakistan. in may 2010, we had a discussion about this here in strasbourg with the minister for minority affairs, shahbaz bhatti. we're debating in parliament today the circumstances of his death. the murder of a senior government official on march 2 means one thing: no one in pakistan is immune from radical islamists. the danger is not only to those who criticize the archaic law that provides for the death penalty for religious blasphemy, but also to those who publicly defend the victims of intolerance, like minister bhatti. after 10 months, it is clear that the eu's policy towards pakistan has not been producing the desired results. that is why i support the idea of a round table on minorities in pakistan, as set out in our resolution. i think the newly created european external action service must respond clearly to the events in islamabad before more victims appear and before it is too late.
we're talking about the murder of a minister, a man who confessed to his christian roots and who was a catholic. we're talking about another murder in pakistan, which shows that the authorities in that country are not really in control of the situation. and that's the problem. we are not accusing the president of pakistan or the government of any ill will at this time. our accusation is that they are unable to provide security to people who are even in government structures but who have a different faith than the rest of the country. and this is the drama of this country, which is becoming more aggressive, more hateful, more aggressive, more hateful towards religions other than islam. this is a real problem. i believe we should speak up.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we are addressing the issue of human rights violations in pakistan. this time because of the recent assassination of minister shahbaz bhatti, who was speaking out against the blasphemy law and defending the rights of religious minorities. he was against bigotry, against discrimination because of his faith. the european parliament's resolution on this brutal murder is our protest against the increasingly brutal extermination of religious minorities in pakistan, but it also clearly shows that we are not leaving religious minorities alone, whose rights are being violated on a regular basis. it is our duty to denounce the acts of lawlessness that violate the freedom and life of another human being. so i would like to emphasize how important it is to support human rights ngos in their efforts to further democratize this country and end the violence.
in writing. i would like to offer my condolences to the family of the murdered pakistani minister for minorities shahbaz bhatti. i hope that the perpetrators of this crime will be caught and punished swiftly. the brutal incident that killed a high-ranking government official fighting for the equality of minorities in pakistan is yet another proof of the difficult situation in the country. unfortunately, our policy so far has not produced the expected results. in the light of the above, the european union must take concrete steps to ensure respect for the rule of law and democracy in the islamic republic of pakistan. i believe that a significant step-up in our efforts through the organisation and conduct of the annual eu-pakistan discussions on the situation of minorities in pakistan, with the involvement of the european parliament, can bring tangible benefits. i fully support our financial support for human rights organisations and those fighting against blasphemy laws, as stated in the resolution adopted today. i hope we can scale up this aid. i also hope that we will be able to persuade the pakistani government, through appropriate diplomatic instruments, to respect the provisions of the democracy and human rights clause of the cooperation agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of pakistan.
in writing. two months ago, in the plenary session, also during the debate on human rights, we condemned the assassination of the governor of punjab, salman taseer. the case was about the same issue we're talking about today - attempts to reform the controversial blasphemy law. both of these tragic events are closely linked as both of these individuals have worked together for the benefit of national minorities in pakistan, including religious minorities and the protection of those who fall victim to the taliban's ideology of intolerance. unfortunately, the western world can only watch as the mood in a country where benazir bhutto was implementing democratic reforms less than a decade ago is radicalized. pakistan is in chaos taliban terrorizes the country with more and more attacks, such as the one in punjab on march 8 that killed 25 people. now, reports have emerged that another person has been sentenced to death by the extremists shehrabano rehman, a member of the pakistani parliament, former journalist and advocate for women's rights, religious minorities and freedom of speech. she introduced a bill in parliament to amend the law on punishments for blasphemy. will we condemn the attempt on her life in the next plenary session?
the author. - a few days ago, aleksey michalevich's frank and moving speech, which exposed the torture methods used by the belarusian kgb against political opponents of alexander lukashenko, caused a shock. it is shocking that in the 21st century, in a european country that has joined the european union in the eastern partnership, the methods of nazism and stalinism are being used. our resolution is an expression of that shock, outrage and solidarity with those who are being persecuted. i'd like to make three points from this place today. the first message is addressed to aleksei michalevich, but also to anatoly lebiedzhki and mikhail statkevich, who are in prison: we admire your courage, we are with you and we will not abandon you! the second message is addressed to alexander lukashenko: start respecting the international conventions to which your country is a party, including the prague declaration on the eastern partnership. stop persecuting your own people! the third message is to mrs ashton: it's time for economic sanctions, because only in this way can we change the way the opposition is persecuted in belarus! thank you, sir.
the author. - belarus is a country bordering the european union, and it seems to be 1000 light years away. it's like there's people in this country who live by different standards. that's not true, man. there are also europeans living there, people who want to feel that they live in a common europe. the problem is the president of this country, a man who is using methods that were known in the soviet union decades ago. it's a trip to the past that president lukashenko is offering us. unlike my predecessor, mr vigenin, i believe that we should believe in our european voice, that parliament and the european union can put pressure on the belarusian authorities to respect human rights. it's not so much a question of politics as it is a question of fundamental morality, ethics. today we should tell our belarusian brothers that they are not alone.
on behalf of the ecr group. kristina ojuland is right when she says that it feels like we're talking about the same thing over and over again and it's not having the desired effect. but unfortunately, she's wrong about us speaking with one voice. i ask all of you here to speak with one voice, and as strong as jack protasiewicz's voice, which sends a clear signal to all those who are fighting for freedom and democracy in belarus that we are with them, giving a clear warning to the regime in belarus that what they are doing is unacceptable. well, alongside this vote, which should be supported by all, there are also others, and unfortunately they were expressed by one of the authors of the resolution, who says that torture is the same in belarus as in some european countries, in some european union countries. this is unacceptable. kristina's right that we're being listened to, and not only are we listening to each other, but we're being listened to. and if there are such divergent views, then i believe we will continue to be ineffective. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i wanted to thank you very much for giving me a voice, because when i spoke with alexey michalevich a few days ago, whom i have had the privilege and honor of knowing and being friends with for several years, i promised him that i would do everything to speak today. although i know this is not the place to discuss personal matters, i wanted to say, "but we are with you, as jacek protasiewicz said". i think it's very important that we say today, not just to the opposition, that we will support them. it is important to say to those who participate in the persecution: to the prosecutors who conduct investigations for hire, to the judges who hand down unjust sentences, to the managers of workplaces who fire for political activity, to the university rectors who fire students for participating in demonstrations, to all of them we must say: we will remember! we will remember what you do, how you behave today, and there will come a time when you will all be punished!
the author. today's debate on ethnic minority rights in china comes a day after the dalai lama formally announced his resignation from his political post in tibet. in the coming months, we should be watching the political situation in tibet closely. but today we're talking about another discriminated minority in china, the uighur muslim minority. china justifies its policy against them by fighting terrorism, and links the persecution of people to the destruction of their cultural heritage. particularly disturbing is the news of the chinese authorities' reconstruction of kaszgar, which has effectively destroyed its historic center, one of the most interesting and best preserved examples of muslim architecture in central asia, which attracts over a million tourists a year and which could be a unesco world heritage site if china were to seek it. i hope that the european union's diplomatic services will be effective in their dialogue with the chinese authorities, reminding them of the need to respect the rights of ethnic minorities and protect their cultural heritage. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say that it is very good that the european parliament is once again taking a stand on the issue of the uyghurs, a muslim minority discriminated against in china. i would like to remind you that there has already been a european parliament resolution on this matter and that we should also speak out in the context of other religious minorities persecuted in the people's republic of china, for example the christian minority. catholics are severely discriminated against there. the communist authorities in beijing have established special church structures that are not recognized by the official catholic church. i think this much-needed and important discussion can be a voice today in defense of all religious minorities in china. i think that voice is very much needed.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 10 march 2011.
i would like to welcome to the chamber mrs maria romana de gasperi, daughter of the great italian statesman, one of the founding fathers of the european community, alcide de gasperi. (laughter) (applause)
newsflash number two: disturbing news coming from our farther neighboring countries: bahrain, syria and yemen. in all these countries, demonstrations of people demanding democratic change are being suppressed by force. governments whose gun barrels are turned against their own citizens lose their democratic legitimacy. the violence must be stopped and those responsible brought to justice. i'd like to inform you that we have received today a notice of resignation from one of our colleagues, mr thaler. another colleague, mr. strasser, has indicated his intention to resign in the coming days. the third member, mr severin, is leaving the socialist and democratic group and will now be among the unattached. these resignations are the consequence of serious allegations that have appeared in the press about the improper conduct of some members of this chamber. i called an emergency meeting of the bureau of parliament this morning to discuss the situation. we'll meet again tonight to continue this meeting. speaking on behalf of the bureau of parliament, and i believe also on behalf of most of our colleagues in the chamber, we are determined to pursue a zero-tolerance policy towards the behaviour that led to the resignation of our colleagues. (applause) as the president elected by you, ladies and gentlemen, i am determined to stand guard over the integrity of this chamber and all its members. i would like to remind you of the great public responsibility that we have as elected representatives of the people. the people have entrusted us with the power to rule in their name. we can't let that trust go. the board has decided that we must learn from this unfortunate event. parliament is seeking to establish all the facts. we will cooperate fully with all relevant authorities to clarify what happened and to verify the information. at the request of the bureau, i will be in contact with the national ministries of foreign affairs of the members' countries to determine what action their judicial authorities intend to take. we in parliament must work to strengthen our internal code of conduct in such cases in the future, including more stringent sanctions. we believe that recent events have shown the need for a legally binding code of conduct for lobbying in the eu institutions. (laughter) (applause) i'll keep you updated on developments.
mr. chairman, please! in your speech you said that you were expressing the opinion of the bureau and the majority of parliament. that is the opinion of the whole of the european parliament. we are opposed to the conduct of our former colleagues. thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen, i propose we move on to the next item on our agenda.
we had a meeting last week of all the members of the european parliament with the president of the european commission and president van rompuy. at the beginning of this meeting, i expressed my sympathy to the entire japanese people. i also spoke of terrible suffering. we stand in solidarity with the japanese people. we also had a moment of silence standing in the room to honor the memory of those who had fallen, died in this disaster. there was also a brief discussion on this subject. i believe that all the necessary actions to express our solidarity with the japanese people have been taken by the house. thank you very much. thank you. (laughter) (applause)
the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament has informed me that mr adrian severin is no longer a member of that group as of today. this time it's an official announcement. in accordance with rule 211 (3) of its rules of procedure, the committee on constitutional affairs proposes the following interpretation of rule 28 entitled 'proceedings before the court of justice of the european union'. the entire explanation has been made available to you. the interpretation shall be deemed to be accepted if no objection is raised by the opening of the sitting on thursday 24 march 2011. so, you have until tomorrow at 9:00 to object to this interpretation. it's long, so i won't read it. however, all of you have access to this interpretation. i also officially inform you that mr zoran thaler has resigned as a member of the european parliament with effect from 21 march 2011. in accordance with rule 4 (1) and (3), parliament shall take note of the resignation and declare the office vacant from the date indicated above. ms catherine soullie has resigned as a member of the european parliament with effect from 24 march 2011. in accordance with rule 4 (1) and (3) of its rules of procedure, parliament shall take note of the resignation and declare the office vacant as from the date indicated above. at the same time, the competent french authorities informed me that ms catherine soullie had been replaced by mr brice hortefeux with effect from 24 march 2011. a friend is among us, i understand. is there a colleague in the room? we don't see a colleague, he's not present. pursuant to rule 3 (2) of the rules of procedure, until his mandate has been reviewed or a decision on a possible dispute has been taken, mr brice hortefeux is to take part in the sittings of parliament and its bodies, retaining all the rights attaching thereto, provided that he signs a declaration stating that he does not hold any post incompatible with the exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament. i'm waiting for the opinion of chairman cohn-bendit.
i would like to return to the text i read to you. until the mandate is verified or a decision is taken on a possible dispute, mr brice hortefeux shall be a member of the european parliament and shall act in accordance with the rules of procedure of members of the european parliament. the case is under review.
the next item is the vote. (the results and other voting details are set out in the minutes.)
i would like to welcome the president of the european commission and the vice-president of the commission who are here with us, and also the president-in-office of the council. we have some very important voting, we know that very well, so thank you for your presence at such an important moment. proszę państwa! uwagi odnośnie głosowania będą państwo mogli wygłosić jutro. teraz nie ma uwag odnośnie głosowania i proszę takich uwag nie zgłaszać. jutro po głosowaniu łącznie będziemy rozmawiać o wszystkich uwagach - dzisiejszych i jutrzejszych.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council of 24 and 25 march 2011.
all the objectives set by the eurogroup, which are sometimes quite reasonable, can be successfully achieved with the help of the economic, social and fiscal policies of the member states. the question therefore arises why we are expressly amending the treaty today to transfer these competences - at least in part - to the eu level. i think there are two answers: as usual, we want to share responsibility with the european union for unpopular decisions, or by the way, perhaps under the guise of reform, we simply want to shift more power to brussels. i doubt that this would have the expected effect, given that eurogroup member states tend to have more public debt and tend to have less competitive tax systems than other countries. the two-speed europe is, of course, looming over this debate. i'd like to warn those who want to speed up. in addition to speed, you need the right direction. the only thing that's going to happen is that the speed of the misdirection will only increase the scale of the disaster. at least that's my observation from the european roads.
mr president, i want to consider two issues. first, to welcome the birth of the euro plus pact, which is a welcome event. a new architecture is being born, almost a kind of economic schengen. what is important is that it should be inclusive and open for those who are able and willing to participate and that it should not create a two-speed europe. unfortunately the pact will be half open because the amendment to article 136, as debated and voted in our committee on constitutional affairs has fallen. it reads: ‘calls for the stability mechanism to be open from the outset to member states whose currency is not the euro, but who wish to participate’. it will be half open because it will be open to take obligations upon its shoulders. it will not be open for those outside the euro who want to participate in the rights. what unites us is the single market, much more so than the euro. it is not a euro crisis; it is a crisis in some euro member states. any non-euro member state could have the same public finance problem. so there is a lack of logic and a lack of consistency. a few words on libya and the southern mediterranean. firstly, i want to congratulate us – in fact not the union but some member states who are at the forefront of the defence of human rights and democracy in libya. we should be grateful to france and its leader, nicolas sarkozy, in leading the way. i think it is the beginning of moving in our foreign policy from interest-based foreign policy to value-based foreign policy. we need to follow two steps. we need to redesign the neighbourhood policy and direct it towards our societies and governments and achieve something which we call in central and eastern europe transition or transformation. it is also an alarm call to redesign and reform and strengthen the common security and defence policy so as to equip the union with common command capacities and military capacities.
mr. chairman, please! it's good that the leaders of the european union have spent so much time in recent weeks and days on what's going on in libya and other countries in north africa. i believe that these actions will lead to the fact that we will prevent the slaughter of civilians, and i believe that it will happen that the libyans themselves will overthrow the tyrant. but it is no secret that we also need to talk about internal challenges, challenges to the functioning of the european union and its institutions, to the internal functioning, to the common foreign, security and defence policy. this difference of opinion between some of the member states of the european union shows how far we are from the goal of a truly community policy in the spirit of the treaty of lisbon. it is also a challenge for the entire international community. it is good that we are working with the united states and other nato countries, it is good that we are in dialogue with the arab league, with the african union, it is good that we are in dialogue with israel. i think it is very important that what the chairman, hans-gert pöttering, has emphasized is that what is happening today in north africa, what is happening in libya, in egypt, can have very serious consequences, also for the future of the peace process. we should remember that and watch it. we should also think about the future of these countries, about the promotion of democracy and human rights, and we should not just act like firefighters putting out fires, we should also think about other countries around europe where these processes - bad processes - can happen.
in writing. we have just endorsed the treaty amendments that will allow the introduction of a permanent stabilisation mechanism for the euro area. our great success is that we have been able to express clearly our support for the community method as the main form of cooperation within the mechanism. the central role of the european commission in the process of assessing the financial situation of the member states bodes well for the future of cooperation, as it protects it from the instability that would threaten it if the intergovernmental formula were chosen. it is hoped that, once the treaty amendment has been adopted by the european council, it will be successfully ratified by the member states and that the permanent mechanism can be established as planned. the strengthening of the stabilisation mechanism in the treaty is just one of the measures taken to improve the competitiveness of the euro area in recent times. the council is also expected to accept the so-called euro pact, adopted at the euro summit on 17 march, at its meeting tomorrow. i am confident that the heads of state or government will be able to reach an agreement and that this initiative will be put into effect, allowing for closer economic cooperation in areas such as employment and public finance. it is fortunate that, despite the initial concerns of non-euro area countries, the pact has been given an open form. this has at least to some extent ensured that a two-speed europe will not emerge.
madam president! as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with japan, i would first of all like to express our sympathy and solidarity with the japanese people in the face of this immense disaster, which has claimed almost 10 000 lives and left more than 16 000 people missing, with the figures constantly changing. the earthquake and tsunami caused unimaginable destruction. the damage is estimated at $300 billion. although japan has not asked the european union for any help, we cannot remain passive in the face of this tragedy. the biggest concern is the damage to the fukushima nuclear power plant. the situation is, according to some experts, dangerous and a repeat of chernobyl is possible. the declaration by the hungarian presidency and mrs ashton on humanitarian and expert assistance should be completed as soon as possible in close cooperation with the japanese government.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are all deeply affected by the events in japan. we pay tribute to those who risked their lives to repair the damage caused by the simultaneous earthquake, tsunami and nuclear power plant failure. this tragedy, while moving, has also triggered the debate we are witnessing in europe today about the future of nuclear energy and europe's energy strategy. we have recently adopted an energy strategy for europe up to 2020. at the moment it's being challenged as if, although in this strategy we accept nuclear energy. it says that she should simply be surrounded by strict security. it is an acceptable part of the energy mix of different countries. i think that this discussion should also strengthen what we are asking for in our report - closer european cooperation in the field of energy. today we must not only strengthen the security conditions but also the european atomic energy community and move towards a european energy community. the european commission must push for better cooperation between states and the europeanisation of nuclear policy. stress tests should not be voluntary - some countries will do it as they please, others will not. this must be part of the building of a common policy on nuclear energy. it's also worth investing in new technologies. the whole of europe's energy strategy is based on decentralisation and diversification. if so, then let's think about promoting small and medium-sized nuclear reactors. they cost less, are built as modules and can therefore be tested for safety more easily. maybe this form will be more acceptable to the public, because we're not going to eliminate this type of energy completely.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to raise the issue of the situation in japan. humanitarian aid to japan is the obvious and necessary response of the european union to the tragic disaster that has struck that country. i am in favour of giving japan and the affected regions all the necessary assistance (technical, administrative and organizational) and financial support. apart from emergency aid, it is necessary to consider the development of a systematic cooperation model with all countries at risk of disasters of various kinds, including those outside the european union. i am asking the responsible commission and council services to review the regulations in this area and to make proposals to strengthen the exchange of good practice in crisis management. more and more countries, including the european union, are suffering from natural disasters. this requires sustained, highly developed international cooperation. it is also important to review the existing legal and regulatory framework for the safety and security of nuclear installations. i would like to draw particular attention to two things: the supervision of the full implementation of the directive on the safety of nuclear installations and the adoption of the directive on radioactive waste.
in writing. the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck japan and the pacific region on 11 march 2011 and claimed thousands of innocent lives is a tragedy that touches us all. our duty is not only to convey our deepest sympathy and condolences to the people and government of japan, but also to provide humanitarian, technical and financial assistance. i am pleased that the european union has provided this vital support almost immediately, using its best rescue teams and disaster management expertise. this assistance must be continued uninterruptedly until the situation in japan is stabilised. in view of the worrying fact that this disaster has led to a very serious nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power plant, which is another threat to life and health, we should review and examine the safety of nuclear power plants in the eu. although the fukushima accident is a warning to us, i don't think it should cause panic and prejudice against nuclear power. japan has repeatedly helped european nations to cope with the effects of disasters, drawing on its rich and valuable experience. it is time we took on this vital role - i am convinced that such cooperation will not only benefit the immediate relief efforts for the victims but also strengthen our relations with such an important friend as japan.
in writing. the devastating earthquake that struck japan is a clear indication that no country, even a highly developed one, can cope with the magnitude of the disaster on its own. it is our duty, along with the sympathy we extend to all japanese people today, to help the victims. an unforeseeable event like this earthquake, which, in addition to the tragedy of thousands of victims, has also created the immense threat of nuclear disaster, even though its effects do not directly affect us, requires us to learn from it. we must honestly ask ourselves how prepared european nuclear power stations are for such an eventuality. in order to avoid even unlikely but possible future risks, it is therefore necessary to review the safeguards applied to nuclear power plants in the member states of the union in order to ensure the safety of europeans.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking mr andreas schwab, rapporteur for this report, for his commitment to the draft directive. two and a half years of intensive work on this document have led to a compromise which, in its final form, will - i hope - provide greater legal certainty for consumers in the 27 member states when selling at a distance and, in particular, when making online transactions. i also hope that this directive will give consumers more confidence in cross-border trade and online shopping by enhancing and harmonising some of the new rights and making existing ones more clear. moreover, by standardising, for example, information requirements for distance and off-premises contracts, the directive also aims to encourage more businesses to enter new markets within the european union and thus improve the functioning of the internal market. i hope that it will be a positive impulse, in particular for the spread of online sales and, to the benefit of consumers, increase competition for consumers in the internal market. i would like to highlight a few of the most important points. firstly, we have tried to produce a text that is balanced, one that benefits consumers throughout the union, but also one that does not have a negative impact on businesses, and in particular on the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the community. secondly, i am glad that we have managed to negotiate a pragmatic text, so that those member states which already have a very high level of consumer protection on some issues are not affected by the application of mixed harmonisation. we have succeeded in introducing uniform and clear rules in specific cases, which will facilitate transactions on the internet, for example. i am also pleased that the juri committee has been able to negotiate chapter 5 on unlawful contractual clauses in a positive way. it regulates contracts which are not individually negotiated by consumers on a daily basis and are often the source of many abuses by dishonest traders. i regret, however, that despite the agreement, the text of the directive still contains some shortcomings, but i am confident that if we are committed we will be able to work on these issues at the next stage of the negotiations and achieve concrete benefits for consumers and for european businesses, because we cannot forget them either.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to start by thanking my colleague andreas for his work in developing this project. he knows better than anyone that this was no easy task. in this work on the directive, we have often stressed how important it is for consumers themselves, but also for commerce, and in particular for electronic commerce and cross-border purchases. when consumers shop online, they want to be sure that the goods or services they order will be delivered to them and that they will be of the quality they claim. we should therefore ensure that consumer protection legislation is clear and transparent. however, we should not forget in this discussion the entrepreneurs who expect rules that are not burdensome for them. have we managed to reconcile the interests of consumers with those of businesses in the preparation of this directive? i think that almost two years of discussions have brought us closer to our goal, but not closer to our goal. i think that european consumers would benefit a lot more from maximum harmonisation of the rules. it would also be much easier for companies operating in the area of electronic commerce. however, i am pleased that we have found solutions on a number of key issues that are perfectly suited to consumer needs while reconciling the realities of doing business. i would like to take as an example the provisions relating to the 14-day period for consumers to withdraw from a contract, and i welcome the second amendment which allows the trader to make the refund conditional on the consumer providing proof of dispatch. this is a necessary solution in this directive, indicating that in certain cases we have obligations on the consumer side alongside the obligations of the trader. finally, i would like to encourage the council and the european commission to seek an ambitious agreement.
in writing. the consumer rights directive is, in my view, one of the most important pieces of legislation we are debating this semester. better access to information and greater consumer protection are particularly important for the development of the online market and for eu-wide economic growth, for example. the development of the e-market in europe is still relatively slow, compared to the united states, for example, and my country poland ranks a distant 17th among eu countries. only 23% of polish consumers shop online, and lack of trust seems to be one of the main reasons for this phenomenon. among the most controversial points in the proposal for a directive was the question of the level of harmonisation itself. i am glad that the rapporteur from the imco committee has agreed with the arguments of my group of socialists and democrats against the assumption of so-called full harmonisation adopted by the european commission, which would de facto prevent member states from adopting standards higher than those provided for by the directive. i think countries that want to maintain a higher standard should be able to do that.
in writing. i would like to thank mr andreas schwab and the other members for their work on this project. i welcome the efforts to harmonise distance shopping rules for all member states of the european union, which are designed to protect consumers and facilitate business. a compromise is clearly needed which will guarantee a high level of consumer protection and make it easier for businesses to provide services throughout the community. i believe it is appropriate to guarantee a high minimum level of consumer protection throughout the european union, with the proviso that member states will also be able to introduce more stringent rules on their own territory if they consider that the level of protection guaranteed by the eu is insufficient. however, the needs of businesses cannot be ignored, for whom the harmonisation of rules across the eu should provide real benefits both in terms of operation and cost reduction. it is therefore appropriate to develop a position which safeguards the interests of consumers as well as of businesses. increasing the security of transactions and harmonising the rules will undoubtedly improve confidence in distance purchasing and encourage more frequent purchases of products in this way.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the world's reserves of tar sands are very large. it is estimated that the reserves of such oil, contained in bitumen, are more than twice as large as those of crude oil produced by conventional methods. today's technology allows us to tap into resources where no one thought possible. at the same time, however, environmental requirements have increased, and environmental standards are coming into conflict with the quest for raw materials and the desire to exploit them at all costs. this involves land degradation, deforestation, and the exploitation of water resources. we need to force the companies that are exploiting the land to reclaim the land so that it can grow again someday. those who profit from the processing of tar sands must allocate part of their profits, for example in the form of a deposit, to environmental protection. the european commission should support such requirements and co2-reducing technologies. the economic links between europe and canada are so strong that canadian industry, whether it wants to be present on the european market, for example in this field, or not, must adapt to european environmental requirements.
mr. chairman, please! in order to be able to say that a country fulfils the conditions of a mature democracy, it is not enough to say that there are general, secret, equal and fair elections to representative bodies, first of all to parliament. it is also necessary to state that the rights of minorities are respected. i think that the place where we are discussing today is the most appropriate to mention that on march 17 the parliament of the republic of lithuania amended the law on education, which unfortunately by administrative methods seems to violate the rights of minorities, in this case among others the polish minority, aiming at the assimilation of people who belong to the polish minority, under a kind of state coercion. suffice it to say that the education act leads to the imposition of the same curriculum in all schools, including those in which only children of national minorities study. the number of compulsory subjects taught in lithuanian is increased. under the pretext of so-called "optimization of the school network" in small towns, schools of national minorities, including polish schools, are to be closed and only lithuanian schools are to be left there. the law violates international conventions adopted by lithuania. it is worth recalling that this case has been the subject of numerous interviews. i think that the european parliament is the place where we should raise these issues and demand that the fundamental rights of national minorities be respected.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i believe it is extremely important, especially in the context of the economic crisis the european union is emerging from and the disaster (earthquake and tsunami) that has struck japan, that the eu formulate a more ambitious policy towards the gulf cooperation council (gcc) and its member states. i am glad that the report covers such issues as energy in the broad sense, industry, scientific research and the development of education. the european external action service should therefore devote more human resources and expand open diplomatic missions in the gcc countries in order to further enhance cooperation. i also believe that all the efforts made in the framework of free trade negotiations to guarantee a secure and stable supply of raw materials are welcome. eu-gcc cooperation should include continued support for exchange programmes for students, researchers and professionals. in its report, the european parliament underlines that the conclusion of a free trade agreement (fta) between the eu and the gcc remains a priority for further cooperation with the mediterranean partners. the european union should therefore develop an appropriate strategy to support the process of regional integration.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? the minutes to be voted on shall be of particular importance. the european union and the united states together account for approximately 60% of the world's air traffic. opening the market to eu and us airlines on a non-discriminatory basis will offer better services to passengers and carriers, bring significant economic benefits and create new jobs. my dream is that airlines compete with each other on the basis of market rules, to the benefit of the passenger, that the passenger in transit to the united states passes through a single security checkpoint, that passengers in the european union and the united states have the same rights, and that they know those rights. does this protocol guarantee that? no, i'm not going. but i am convinced that it is a step in the right direction and will make it much easier to achieve these goals in the future. during successive rounds of negotiations between the community and the united states, the question of signing the protocol was raised several times. but eventually, i was able to accept it. this avoided a number of risks, including the most serious, the triggering of a suspension clause, which would have led to the suspension of the arrangements and the annulment of the results of the two negotiating stages. that would mean going back to the legal situation of seven years ago. this is unacceptable. the six eu member states do not have bilateral air services agreements with the united states, and the rejection of the document would mean that they would be blocked from flying from their airports to the united states. e second phase of the agreement does not achieve the ultimate objective of fully opening up the market without any restrictions on both sides, but contains a number of incentives to encourage reform, in particular following the introduction of a change in us law that will allow eu entities to take over majority stakes in us airlines, while the eu will allow us entities to do the same. i am particularly pleased to see the importance of the social dimension of the agreement. in this context, the commission should use the agreement to promote compliance with relevant international social rights legislation, in particular with the employment standards contained in the conventions of the international labour organisation, the oecd and the rome convention. this will ensure better respect for the applicable airline workers' rights. the agreement will also strengthen cooperation on environmental issues by requiring compliance and cooperation on the use of green technologies and on fuel and air traffic management. as rapporteur, i have tried to take the wider context and to present both the positive and the negative aspects of the protocol, without succumbing to the temptation to focus exclusively on the weak or strong sides of the document. i did not start my work with the a priori assumption that we must support or reject this protocol. after many meetings and discussions, i have come to the conclusion that it is much more profitable for the community to adopt the document than to reject it.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members very much for their comments. of course the most complicated issue is the agreement and negotiation process with the united states. i can assure you that this is far from being the end. it is one part of the process and we are definitely continuing to negotiate with the united states but i would like to underline that the united states is a very difficult partner. as many of you mentioned, 60% of world aviation is covered by the eu and the united states. what we decide in cooperation will also define the whole framework and whole environment for aviation in the world, so the cooperation is also extremely important for the whole world. it also must be made very clear that the americans have the same parliamentary procedures: they have the us congress, which is very difficult to deal with precisely because of protectionist feeling, but we are working together and developing our relations. i will be going to washington in a few weeks’ time, and we have committed ourselves to work in five directions: first safety, second security, third technological cooperation – we signed an important agreement in budapest about interoperability of air traffic management systems which is extremely important for europe so that we do not lose our competitive advantages –, fourth the environment and fifth commerce or business. on business, as you know and as you mentioned, there are ridiculous restrictions on ownership rights. but it must also be very clear that we cannot force the united states to surrender; we must negotiate and this is sometimes not so obvious. we must negotiate and we have to take into account their concerns. it looks quite promising, but we definitely cannot win any commerce or especially technological confrontation: this should be avoided, it can be very dangerous. so, as i say, in october we committed to moving in these five directions and definitely the next agreements will follow and we will try with the new us congress to facilitate market openings which will be the most difficult part as several of you have already mentioned. i would also like to say that, yes, the vietnam agreement is of course by magnitude much smaller than the other agreements but it is very important that we form an aviation area which behaves with the same rules and which follows the same rules and this is exactly the aim of these agreements, especially – which is a difficult element in negotiations with third countries – the recognition of eu carriers. you know that this has been a very sensitive issue, and with these agreements with third countries we create better possibilities for european airlines as well. thank you for your comments. i promise that we will keep you informed about all future developments. we have had several discussions in the tran committee about the concepts of these negotiations and further development and, here again, one has to negotiate with difficult partners. this is the eternal truth of all negotiations but the picture has not been so bad. we have achieved a lot including with the united states, with the recognition of eu carriers and several other things. there i can assure you that i will again meet the leaders of the us transport policy; there is a certain willingness to cooperate and to find ways to solve our conflicting problems.
the rapporteur. - thank you very much for all the comments on the aviation agreement between the european union and the united states. i agree that this is not a perfect agreement, it is another step forward, but we are certainly not at the end of the road. due to procedural issues, we haven't had a chance to correct this document. however, the rejection of the agreement would mean the loss of the benefits of both stages of the negotiations. in my report i included a call for change which should be the subject of a joint committee or should form the basis for a third phase of negotiations. in particular, i call for further liberalisation of transport rights, additional opportunities for foreign investment, a much more ambitious stance on environmental protection, better coordination of passenger rights policies to ensure the highest level of protection for passengers. ladies and gentlemen! my work on this document is not yet finished. i intend to monitor the activities of the joint committee, which has been set up to ensure that the provisions of the agreement are properly implemented and even extended. i will seek to have a permanent observer from the european parliament on the joint committee. if the committee does not live up to its expectations, parliament should invite the commission to open the third phase of negotiations. in conclusion, i would of course like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for their comments and assistance in writing this report.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the european and us shares of the world aviation markets are estimated at 60%. the quality of services in this area should therefore be continuously improved. by agreeing to the conclusion of an air traffic agreement between the community and the united states, we are contributing to the development of the aviation industry by enabling increased investment on both sides of the atlantic. in addition, the agreement will contribute to strengthening the protection of workers' rights in the sector, increase cooperation on aviation safety and, through compliance, enhance cooperation on environmental issues. it is important to strengthen the role of the eu-us joint committee by promoting new initiatives in the implementation of the agreement. i believe that the new agreement will contribute to further opening up of market access, which will have an impact on the quality of services and safety requirements, which is why i support the resolution.
in writing. - i am in favour of adopting a motion for a resolution on the above matter. the treaty of lisbon increased the number of cases where parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. air traffic agreements are currently included in this category as they relate to a field to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. previously, only parliament's opinion was sought on such agreements. the eu-us aviation markets together account for around 60% of global air traffic. opening the market to eu and us airlines on a non-discriminatory basis would offer passengers and carriers in air transport better services in terms of diversity and cost, bring significant economic benefits and create jobs. moreover, convergence of rules could contribute significantly to the promotion of fair competition, in particular as regards state subsidies, social and environmental requirements. at the same time, we must accept that a number of issues fall outside the scope of the agreement as amended by the protocol. the commission should therefore prepare itself to negotiate the next phase of this agreement, covering the following issues: further liberalisation of rights of way; additional opportunities for foreign investment; and the impact of environmental measures and infrastructure constraints on the use of rights of way.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report of dominique baudis. its comprehensive report covers all the relevant issues concerning human rights, women's equality, press freedom and democratisation. the report also takes into account recent developments in the political arena in bahrain. i think it's extremely important to condemn the use of violence in this conflict. the multi-stakeholder strategic partnership highlighted in many of the report's points should help avoid crises in eu-region relations and enhance europe's energy security. the gulf countries are very important actors in the peace process. i therefore welcome the adoption of the report and hope that cooperation between the european union and the gulf states will be even more fruitful in many areas.
in writing. − since the beginning of the year, the committee on budgets has been working on the ep's priorities for the eu budget for 2012. they will be used to formulate parliament's position in the negotiations with the council of the european union. this year's conciliation between parliament and the council looks set to be even more difficult than in 2010. the council, opposed to the eu budget being increased, has already announced its own savings plan, which is quite convenient because it concerns budget lines not used so far. the parliament, on the other hand, opts for an increase in the 2012 budget only by the inflation rate as determined by eurostat. it is an objective factor which we cannot determine by voting, as some people think. what is the ep's justification for the proposed increase? first, the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, including the two objectives of increasing education and employment. without adequate funding, these objectives will remain 'dead' and 'europe 2020' will follow the high-profile and ineffective 'lisbon strategy'. secondly, the eu budget is already breaking apart; the european external action service, the galileo system, the solidarity and globalisation funds are generating expenditure that could not have been foreseen six years ago when the current financial perspective was being negotiated. speaking of sensible spending, i also call on meps to take a critical look at the so-called 'building policy' which we cannot afford. for example, the announced expansion of office space in brussels.
in writing. - the situation in japan as a result of the great cataclysm deserves the utmost attention, response and support, not only moral but also economic, humanitarian and political. respect must be shown for public behaviour, the work of the emergency services and prevention. lessons from this disaster should be drawn for other parts of the world, including europe. we have seismic zones. centuries ago, lisbon was badly hit by a tsunami, messina was hit by a tsunami, and skopje was hit by an earthquake 50 years ago. we've been working on an early warning system for years, but so far, we've had no significant results. we need to radically speed up the work. early warning can prevent many thousands of unnecessary deaths.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 24 march 2011.
i would like to start by giving you some notes and information: on 26 april, it will be 25 years since the chernobyl disaster, the worst nuclear accident in human history. we still remember those who lost their health or even their lives fighting the elements, as well as the hundreds of thousands who had to leave their homes. the authorities of the former eastern bloc countries at the time hid information about the disaster from the world, and especially from their own citizens, for too long. this has made it very difficult to prevent the effects of this disaster. later, however, chernobyl became a symbol of the effective cooperation between the authorities of the countries affected by the disaster and the international community. in the wake of the chernobyl disaster, our thoughts are also with the japanese people, who are still reeling from the effects of the tsunami and the fukushima nuclear accident. second information and at the same time a painful reminder: in a few days, april 10th, it will be one year since the plane crash near smolensk. ninety-six people were killed, including the polish president and his wife, and 18 members of the polish parliament. one of these mps was already prepared to sit in the european parliament as one of the 18 members. most of those who died were in the highest offices of state. they were personally known to many in this room, and i knew at least half of them. the cause of the crash has not yet been fully explained, and we are still waiting for information on this matter. these days, we're reconnecting with people who are grieving the loss of their loved ones. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. i appeal to the appropriate authorities in the u.s. state of georgia to exercise their right to commute mr. davis' death sentence to life in prison. death can never be an expression of justice. another note: we are also deeply concerned about the developments in the republic of côte d'ivoire. the presidential election has brought fear and violence instead of the peace, future and prosperity that the people of this country have been waiting for. laurent gbagbo must accept the result of the election and hand over power. we call on both sides to immediately cease all violence against civilians. the international community must do everything possible to stop the massacre of the population. all those responsible for the crime will be held accountable. we believe this deeply and the european parliament will do everything in its power to achieve this. and lastly, as i promised to keep you informed of the progress made in clearing up the alleged corruption of some members of the european parliament, i would like to remind you that on thursday, after the meeting of the political group leaders, you received a letter from me with updated information on the matter. we are also taking decisive steps to formulate a code of conduct for interest groups, i.e. lobbyists, and also for members of the european parliament. we shall be discussing this at the bureau's sitting at 6.30 p.m. today and will be deciding how to proceed with this matter. mr. nicholson asked for a vote, please, sir.
i thank you for your attention to this matter and i would like to inform you that i made a special statement on this matter yesterday morning - a statement by the president of the european parliament - in which i condemned this incident, and in particular the fact that it was such a young man. i also expressed the hope that northern ireland would live in peace, as it has done in the past. the content of my speech on this subject yesterday morning can be found on the european parliament's website.
mr ernst strasser resigned as a member of the european parliament with effect from 24 march 2011. in accordance with rule 4 (1) and (3) of its rules of procedure, parliament shall take note of the resignation and declare the office vacant as from the date indicated above. hella ranner resigned as a member of the european parliament with effect from 1 april 2011. in accordance with rule 4 (1) and (3) of its rules of procedure, parliament shall take note of the resignation and declare the office vacant as from the date indicated above. the competent austrian authorities have informed me that mr ernst strasser has been replaced by mr hubert pirkker with effect from 31 march 2011. i would like to welcome my new colleague and remind him that, under rule 3 (2), until his mandate is reviewed or a decision is taken on a possible dispute, mr pirker will take part in the meetings of parliament and its bodies, retaining all the rights attached to this, provided that he signs a declaration stating that he does not hold any post incompatible with the exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament.
we will answer that question later, as i was not prepared for it.
thank you, sir. i'm sure this will require a private and in-depth discussion. solving this problem is certainly not easy. further information: the austrian competent authorities have informed me that helli ranner has been replaced by heinz becker with effect from 1 april 2011. i would like to welcome my new colleague and remind him that, under rule 3 (2), until his mandate is reviewed or a decision is taken on a possible dispute, heinz becker is entitled to take part in the meetings of parliament and its bodies, retaining all the rights attached to that right, provided that he signs a declaration stating that he does not hold any position incompatible with the exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 140 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 31 march 2011. the following changes are proposed: tuesdayin relation to mr fernandes' report on parliament's 2012 estimates of revenue and expenditure, the europe for freedom and democracy group requested that the vote be moved to the may part-session, i.e. the request for a vote to be moved. mrs. andreasen will present this motion, please.
on the debate on the single market, the group of the european people's party asked for motions for resolutions to be tabled to wind up the debate on the commission's statement on public procurement. so this is a motion for a resolution. it's a motion for a resolution. i would like someone from the epp group to make this proposal. who's going to make the motion? (parliament rejected the request) wednesday
- the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has asked for a debate on the situation of ai weiwei in china to be held and included in the rule 122 debate on thursday afternoon, instead of the debate on zimbabwe previously scheduled for that time. i would ask that the president-in-office take the floor. (parliament adopted the proposal) thursdays
we will have the discussion on mr ai weiwei and china on thursday afternoon, and the discussion on ivory coast will take place at about 8 p.m. on wednesday evening. (parliament approved the request)– wednesday there is another proposal from mrs gebhardt. mrs gebhardt, could you once again explain your proposal.
mrs in 't veld, we will look into this and send you the information.
the next item is the report by sylvie guillaume, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on minimum standards on procedures in member states for granting and withdrawing international protection (recast) (com(2009)0554 – c7-0248/2009 – 2009/0165(cod)) (a7-0085/2011).
mr van der stoep, all these remarks will be in our record, so you can check them. all the original words, your reply and the second reply will be in that record.
if i may, i would like to thank the chairman very much for taking the floor. the problem is that not all the countries of the union apply the same criteria when it comes to the export of dual-use goods. i therefore think that we should strive to ensure that all eu countries apply equal and high standards to the export of civilian products that can be used for military purposes. i believe that this regulation should pay particular attention to the protection against unjustified and unwanted dissemination of technology and its software, since attacks are increasingly targeting modern technology, including software. i think that would be an effective way to counter cyberterrorism.
i would like to say that the european parliament is unfortunately very rarely involved in tourism. a closer look at the work of the committee on transport and tourism reveals that 95% of its work is on transport and only 5% on tourism. and while i very much support brian simpson's report, i do have one postulate: if we want to talk about statistics, it's very important to compare things that are comparable. the next step in our work should be to adopt standards in specific areas, for example in the case of hotels. if a hotel has two, three or four stars, it has to be very clearly stated.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i believe that the current system of tourism statistics is not consistent with the new requirements and the rapidly developing market for tourism services and the changing habits of tourists. it is therefore appropriate to include in the report forms such as short trips or the use of the internet to book trips. the updating and optimisation of the legal framework for the collection of statistical data on tourism in the eu is therefore of the utmost importance. tourism statistics and socioeconomic indicators reflect the impact of tourism on the current state of the european economy. it is also important to propose a provision requiring the collection of data on the accessibility of the travel database for persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. as vice-president of the environment committee, i would like to emphasise the importance of the tourism sector to europe's economic, social and cultural development. european statistics in this field can play a key role in the planning of a european strategy in this field, taking into account the respect for the environment. properly processed and reliable data are essential to plan the framework of action in order to maximise profits and to respond to environmental threats. i believe that the focus should be on collecting data on the development and status of agro-tourism and ecotourism. a pan-european exchange of good practice is also essential for the dynamic development of this specific sector. european decision-makers and businesses alike need up-to-date and reliable data that takes account of technological change and new trends in consumer behaviour to meet expectations. it should be noted that the treaty of lisbon, in order to stimulate action in this area, has given the european parliament new powers, which give it the power to influence the revision of the legal rules governing this sector. i hope that this will contribute to the fruitful development of a sustainable tourism strategy.
mr. chairman, please! in the fight against violence against women, we are mainly talking about violence in families and in personal relationships. such violence is, of course, a great evil, and states should fight it with strong legal measures. i agree with the spirit of mrs svensson's report on this point. but i would like to draw attention to another type of violence that women often experience. it's about state violence, which is taking children away from women, which is happening more and more. there is no worse violence against a woman than the taking of her child, and sometimes it happens for the most trivial of reasons. i know of some extreme cases of child abduction in poland, including one where a family court took a mother's 10-year-old son away because the mother prayed too much. there are cases of child custody because of the poverty of the parents. instead of helping the family, they take the children to foster care or to a children's home. there are also extreme cases of child abduction by mothers in situations of parental conflict. in some cases, the scenes are dramatic, with children being taken from their mothers by police, social services, or court officials. in europe, there is a decline in the value of the family and a growing state interference in family life. this often leads to violence in the name of the law, violence that hurts parents and, above all, hurts children. taking a child from the mother and taking a child from the mother, because it works both ways, should be reserved for the last resort, where there's child abuse or violence. there's no reason to take children away because of poverty. families and women in families should be given all the help they need, but the breaking of family ties should be avoided, because this is often worse than the cure.
i am pleased that the european parliament will be adopting a report during this session which represents a multi-faceted approach to violence against women. it seems that defining violence against women in such a broad way will help to combat this negative phenomenon. there is no doubt that only integrated action at the various levels - political, social, legal and educational - can bring about tangible results. however, we are waiting for a draft directive focused solely on combating violence, which i hope the european commission will propose in the near future. i have two final remarks. and what's really important is that, finally, violence against women is seen as evil, not just from the perspective of the woman herself, or the perspective of a social unit like the family, but also increasingly from the perspective of the costs that it has on society as a whole. secondly, in debating this issue, we should not only focus on the fight against violence, but we should also focus on the dimensions of violence. we should fight stereotypes and condemn the social acceptance of violence against women and strive to change the way we educate the next generation of young people so that they recognize and practice the actual equality of women and men. i would like to congratulate mrs svenson on her report, which raises the important and socially sensitive issue of violence against women. i believe that behind today's words will also come actions and we will not only talk about violence against women, but we will act first and foremost to defend them. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! in the light of the comments made by my predecessors and the report by mrs svensson, it is important to stress once again that violence against women is still a part of society. one of the many reasons for this persistence is women's lower material status and economic discrimination in working life, their more difficult access to the labour market, and lower wages and social benefits. it is women who bear the consequences of motherhood and the hardships of child rearing. the social security system in many european countries is inadequate. during their working lives, and especially at retirement age, they leave women to the goodwill of their spouses and to the social security systems. this is a profoundly unjust situation and must be universally opposed. that is why it is so important to demand full equality for women in terms of time spent on motherhood and child-rearing. this is particularly relevant today, in the context of the demographic crisis in europe. actions to level the economic opportunities of women can help eliminate or reduce violence against women. the economic dependence of women on men is one of the many causes of passivity, of submission, and also of a certain acceptance of violence. it's time to put an end to this. the european parliament has a great deal of power to improve this situation, especially in countries where the situation of women is particularly difficult because of the high level of poverty. this is a very important message and i am grateful to the report's initiators for recognising this problem and taking active action to address it.
in writing. human rights and gender equality are the only priorities of the union. since violence against women is a gross violation of human rights and one of the main barriers to equal status for women and men, combating this scourge should be our main objective. the approach to violence against women varies according to national legislation. some member states, such as spain, have good legislation in this area. some of them don't have any. there are also significant differences in the approach to the criminalization of violence between member states. given the diversity of legal frameworks and the often limited impact on the enforcement of international law on combating violence, the need for clear and binding union-wide rules on the issue is becoming increasingly evident. it is necessary to summarise the different actions of the union and to integrate them into a single comprehensive strategy aimed at combating violence against women across the union. this strategy should be consistent with other international initiatives and should be based on available union programmes and best practices in the member states. the work on a common directive against violence should be completed during this parliament's term. it is necessary that no one can ever again say that in the european union even cows are better protected than women".
on paper. unfortunately, despite our efforts, violence against women, as well as violence in other areas of life, is still a major problem in europe. violent crime occurs in all countries and affects people from all walks of life. this means that the fight against this phenomenon and the assistance to victims must be multi-layered. it is important to promote family harmony and development to prevent this type of violence. in the case of crimes involving violence against women, it would be a good idea to establish a single european hotline to receive support and report such crimes. the union should aim to strengthen the penalties for violence against women, in particular for crimes of sexual violence. such crimes often leave a painful mark on a woman's psyche for years to come, making it impossible for her to function normally. it is also necessary to introduce in parallel better protection of the rights of victims in criminal proceedings. the report highlights the problem of prostitution and trafficking in women. to combat this practice effectively, a pan-european agreement is needed, involving not only eu countries but also non-eu countries.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the original debate, which was scheduled to be much narrower, exclusively around mr prover's report, was extended by the decision of the conference of presidents and we are now discussing, quite rightly, both the current response to the influx of mainly refugees (because we cannot even speak of illegal immigrants, but of refugees from syria, and above all from north africa, which is in the throes of revolution), as well as an overall assessment of the european union's current asylum and immigration policy. as the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the ppe group on mr prover's report, i would like to return to this document. in this context, i would like to mention two aspects which are very important from my point of view. firstly, i would like to welcome the fact that the report speaks of the need for greater synergy between the two important pillars of european policy: the development pillar and the security pillar. the lesson we learn today from the events of the north african revolution is that aid directed solely through official channels, distributed by the government agendas of dictators, does not solve the social problems of the people who live in the countries that we are helping. the eu's aid must really help ordinary people to solve social problems, not enrich the pockets of dictators and powerful men. the conditions for granting development aid to these countries should be reforms not only in the economic dimension but also in the dimension of democracy and human rights. today we see that young people from those parts of the world that we are interested in, that are covered by our development policy, want not only bread but also freedom and democracy. and secondly, given the demographic challenges that europe faces, it is becoming clear that the european union, without a coherent and genuine, rational immigration policy, cannot cope with the problems that are already emerging on the labour market horizon. only a wise, coherent migration policy, such as the one that has been talked about by members of parliament before, the one that canada and new zealand have been practicing, can prevent the least educated and the most needy from coming to europe to find their place on earth.
in writing. the draft resolution draws attention to a very important and relevant issue. it not only raises the issue of equal treatment between women and men in rural areas, but also directly points to the need to create equal opportunities for women living in rural areas, similar to those enjoyed by women living in urban areas on a daily basis. i think that up to now, too little attention has been paid to the social and professional activation of rural women in parliament. rural women face many barriers on a daily basis, both economic and infrastructural, which severely limit their access to education, healthcare and, most importantly, the labour market. the small number of jobs in rural areas is mainly due to the much lower economic development of these areas. this is why it is so important to support rural development policy by improving the availability of advanced infrastructure or the ability to use well-developed information and communication technologies. i am convinced that members of the european parliament can also do a great deal to combat the cultural backwardness of rural areas. we have the possibility of organising various training courses and workshops, where we can really help to access eu funds for the activation and development of rural areas.
in recent days, the republic of lithuania has adopted an education law that changes the education system in such a way that there is a fear of closing a significant part, at least half, and perhaps more, of the polish schools operating in lithuania. this is another act of discrimination against the polish national minority who have lived there for centuries, for many generations. after the introduction of a ban on writing polish names in polish and the ban on using polish names of places, and even punishing poles for using their own language, we are dealing with another act of discrimination this time concerning education. it is so sad that there is no conflict between the peoples of both countries, and the lithuanian authorities irresponsibly create conflict, fuel it, which can bring very bad consequences. we deal with human rights violations in different places around the world, and here in the european union, there is a very sad thing happening. it is high time the european union took it up. this is a disgrace not only for lithuania but for the whole european union. thank you, sir.
in writing. the choice of career in the agricultural sector is mostly made by men, but women in rural areas have always been present and, unfortunately, have always been undervalued. consistency and a forward-looking approach to many aspects of rural life have helped to improve the quality of life and work in rural areas. however, their representation is very often not taken into account at the planning stage, and taking the needs of women farmers into account can bring many benefits to rural communities. women in agriculture should be provided with opportunities for professional development through real support in the form of education or counselling. it is important to promote the countryside as an attractive place for women to work, to pursue both their family and professional goals.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the president of the european council conclusions of the european council (24-25 march 2011) . the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, will take the floor.
the new architecture of public finance in the european union was based on an attempt to strengthen sound public finance and spending rules and on a completely unhealthy tendency to limit the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. i very much doubt that the euro plus countries would be able to impose public spending austerity on themselves collectively if they could not do so individually. i have no doubt that the unification of the tax base is an effective step towards a tax union which has only one objective: to eliminate tax competition in the european union. the real intentions have been revealed by french politicians, nicolas sarkozy, clementine lagarde, who have been pushing for weeks to raise tax rates in ireland under the pretext of fighting the crisis. but raising tax rates in the european union regardless of the member state is a recipe for perpetuating the crisis, not mitigating it.
madam president, i would like to touch upon three issues. first, i think that the council summit meeting brought very important and positive results, given the difficulty of the situation and the context. i welcome the formula of having an inclusive euro plus pact open to those who are not yet eurozone members, as president van rompuy said. at the same time, we are creating a european stability mechanism safety net. could we not consider that in both mechanisms in euro plus, which is an obligational commitment to observe certain rules of behaviour in macroeconomic and macro-financial policy, and also in esm. the safety net should be open so that both convergence and solidarity, which is esm, may be inclusive and not exclusive. my second remark concerns neighbourhood policy. we seem to be redesigning our neighbourhood policy. the stimulus is coming from the south, but it is important for our overall neighbourhood policy. i hope that it will be – if we read the documents by baroness ashton and mr füle – far more society-oriented, more generous towards those societies and demanding of authorities and governments. we should move away from short-sighted economic interests and base this policy on a human rights and democracy approach, moving from status quo policy to transition policy. but when we create this new paradigm it should also be applicable to the east. we should be more human rights and democracy-based and more society-oriented and less authority-oriented than we are now. my third point concerns eu-nato. in libya we have a new experience of eu and nato cooperation, which is a relationship which we do not yet fully understand. we also have an old experience in afghanistan, which is not always good. at the same time, this relationship is important. let us aim to be successful this time.
in writing. the latest european council opens a new stage - a stage of greater economic coordination and convergence in the eu and the euro area. the euro plus pact, adopted by the heads of state or government and involving the euro area countries and bulgaria, denmark, lithuania, latvia, poland and romania, offers a real chance of achieving the objectives it sets out, namely to promote competitiveness, employment, the stability of public finances and financial stability in general. it is worth noting that it does not indicate specific political or economic actions to achieve these objectives, leaving it to the individual states to choose the appropriate means. there is no doubt that the success or failure of the pact will be determined by the real commitment of the member states and the effectiveness of the monitoring of their progress. the eu can no longer afford to fail in economic coordination, as it did in the stability and growth pact. the summit also agreed to include in the treaty a provision for the establishment of a permanent european stability mechanism to be activated by common agreement of the member states in the event that it is necessary to ensure the stability of the euro area as a whole. this is a very important decision, especially in light of the recent troubles in the euro area countries. the permanent mechanism established by the treaty provides a solid safeguard against similar problems in the future, while also reducing the risk of speculative attacks on the european currency. it is also welcome that the mechanism has been opened up to non-euro area member states.
in writing. we can only tackle the crisis effectively together, without dividing the euro area into members and non-members. it is difficult to imagine building an increasingly competitive union without the participation of countries such as the united kingdom, sweden or poland, which is why we welcome the news of the adoption of the euro plus pact. at first, we had the impression that the eurozone was not only planning to reform itself, but also to reform outside the community structures, which worried meps. however, these concerns were allayed and a principled position was taken on behalf of parliament. we only regret that they have not been fully adopted by the member states, especially with regard to the european stability mechanism, which we believe should be open from the outset to non-euro area countries.
i supported mrs jeggle's report because, among other things, it suggests that adequate funding should be provided for the european union's agricultural policy. the justified desire to save european funds cannot be pursued at the expense of the common agricultural policy. if the countryside, agriculture in the european union, is not given the right support, it will be difficult to improve the role of women in rural areas, it will be difficult to encourage women to want to live there in difficult conditions, it will be difficult to achieve the objectives of this important policy, which are food security, environmental protection and territorial balance. we should bear this in mind, and on the occasion of this important report by mrs jeggle i would once again urge that the european union's propensity to save should not be pursued at the expense of the common agricultural policy.
in the light of recent events in japan, energy policy, and in particular energy security in the broad sense, is a hot topic of discussion in all corners of the globe. the fukushima disaster has shown how much work we need to do to create an efficient and environmentally friendly, but above all a secure energy grid. this is not just a problem in asia, but in every country on every continent. if there are power plants that need to be shut down for safety reasons, let us do everything we can to make sure that this process is quick and efficient. let us support all efforts to develop new and safe sources of energy, and let human safety always be the primary consideration in all decisions. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the global economic crisis has contributed to the deterioration of the situation of many polish enterprises. the pain of the decline in production is felt primarily by the common people, the workers of these companies. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and changes in the pattern of world trade. its main task is to help such people to return to the labour market. the current, first application this year, concerns employees of polish companies in the carpathian basin. as the representative of polish interests in the european parliament, i approve the commission's decision to transfer funds from the fund to the objectives set out in the proposal. as a result of this decision, the dismissed employees of three sub-carpathian machinery companies will receive almost half a million euro in financial support. i am voting for the resolution and at the same time i hope that the commission will take a positive stance on the implementation of similar proposals.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade. today the european parliament voted on a proposal to approve more than €450,000 for the redundancies of three companies based in the carpathian basin. i would like to stress that the eu support is a major boost for the region i represent, as it will allow the redundant workers to return to the labour market and the funds will be used for training, retraining, new equipment or self-employment. podkarpaty is one of the poorest regions in poland, so i am very happy that eu aid is reaching here. thank you to all who voted for the financial support.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen! we voted today in strasbourg on the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas. i'm from the countryside, i'm a country girl, and there was a time when i worked hard on my parents' farm. i can say with full responsibility that women in rural areas, through their hard work and determination, have an impact not only on the development and modernisation of farms, but often on the activity of the entire rural community. as rural housewives, nurturing tradition and family customs, and successfully implementing new farming practices, they are a group to be supported, promoted and valued. in thanking all rural women, both in poland and throughout the european union, for their hard work and contribution to regional development, i would like to inform you that i voted in favour of mrs jeggle's report. thank you, sir.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! a draft resolution of the european parliament on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas was adopted today. the experience of recent decades has shown that the key element for the development of any sector of the economy is the increasing involvement of women, their knowledge, experience and professionalism. this is why i believe that one of the main objectives of the common agricultural policy should be to make rural areas more attractive, with particular regard to the needs and role of women. every effort should be made to help women achieve their goals and to reconcile work and family life. to do this, it is necessary to provide access to a wide range of services, infrastructure, as well as training and personal development opportunities in rural areas. it is important to take action to promote female entrepreneurship and to combat all forms of gender discrimination. attention should also be paid to providing greater political and financial support, for example through facilitated access to investment and credit. i am convinced that all these actions will ensure that women's potential is used more and more for the development of agriculture, as well as local communities and entire regions.
in writing. - i supported the report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas. in particular, i am in favour of solutions to increase the employment of women in rural areas. in poland, women are more affected by unemployment than men, especially in rural areas. a large proportion of the unemployed in rural areas are women under the age of 34. these are mostly educated people who i can't find jobs that match their qualifications. this is a particularly dangerous trend, since it is young people who should have the best chance of making it into the job market. this leads in the long run to the feminization of rural unemployment and thus to an increase in poverty among young women. many of them choose to go to the city in search of work, which in turn means an ageing of the rural population, a decline in natural growth and a general deterioration in the living conditions of rural people. in this context, i support the assumption that the new eafrd regulation will provide for specific measures to support women in the future programming period 2014-2020. this can have a positive impact on the employment of women in rural areas. i also support the provision of adequate benefits for rural women under social security schemes. they must take into account the lower earning position of women, which affects their pension rights.
in writing. − the structure of the countryside is changing as a result of socio-demographic changes, value systems and increased choice. the role of women in the countryside is also changing. now, to keep women in the countryside or to encourage them to choose this lifestyle, their needs must be taken more seriously and reflected in support policies. the presence of women in rural areas must be made more visible, especially in the economic and financial field, and the instruments to achieve this must be made available. given that women continue to be the ones who take care of small children, the sick or the elderly, and therefore give up their jobs, they need to be able to find a balance between family and professional life. this is possible through the development of infrastructure, e.g. the construction of kindergartens, the development of various forms of education and culture. the key to achieving these aims will be to include women of all generations in decision-making processes. improving access to medical services and early detection programmes for women with cancer is also of great importance. in addition, it is worth continuing to support and develop agro-tourism as a low-risk business activity that promotes job creation and reconciliation of family and professional life, and to promote electronic forms of entrepreneurship, such as e-business, that allow business to be carried out independently of the distance from urban centres.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mr jeggle on a document which will make a significant contribution to the debate on the shape of the common agricultural policy. women's participation in political parties, agricultural organisations and self-employment is an important factor in enhancing the economic potential of rural areas. the key issue in job creation is to promote electronic forms of entrepreneurship among women, such as e-business, which allows businesses to operate even in hard-to-reach areas. the opportunities for activating the social life of rural dwellers through the development and implementation of programmes supporting the training system for women's organisations should also be better exploited. supporting the development of adequate pre-school infrastructure in rural areas, which will facilitate women's quicker re-entry into employment and increase their competitiveness in the labour market, is also essential to level the playing field. i would like to thank mr jeggle again for accepting my proposals during the preparation of the report. the document includes the demands of the women put forward during the public consultation organized by me in lubuskie land.
in writing. - human dignity and the right to security are undoubtedly fundamental values of life that must be protected. the very word 'violence' is so strongly negative that many people try to dissociate themselves from the discussion of gender-based violence. but we are here to confront difficult issues, to intervene in cases where society needs guidance on political and legal issues. let us remember that violence against women, whether it is through the violation of their dignity, sexual abuse, forced marriage or mutilation, is not a gender-specific problem. it's a problem of society as a whole, which contributes to the general destruction. the cost accounting is minimized in this case. do we not all bear the costs that result from such violence - the costs of medical, psychological, legal and social care? victims are often unable to function in their professional lives. member states should consider developing a plan to address gender-based violence.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission.
president of the commission. − if you want a full legal analysis, i will be happy to send the analysis by the commission’s legal service. but i can tell you – i am sorry if this disappoints you – that the uk is not going to be forced to enter the euro.
the next topic is the european response to the tragedy in japan. we have many colleagues on the list. i would ask you not to raise a blue card if you want to be on the catch-the-eye list, because that is a quite different thing. please raise a white card – or any other. the blue card is for quite a different procedure.
colleague, you are talking in the place of other members. there is a long list of colleagues who are waiting to speak.
madam tzavela, you have spoken for almost two minutes now, but you had only one minute, even if everything you have spoken about is very important for us.
president of the european commission. − i would like to support the comments made by you, madam. i think that what you have said is extremely important. i think that those men are heroes; they have our greatest respect and admiration for their courage and their generosity. and let me tell you about the japanese people too. commissioner georgieva was there recently, not far from the area of the accident, and one of the things that impressed kristalina very much in fact was the resilience, the dignified attitude and the spirit of the japanese people. so i think it is more than appropriate that we here send, from strasbourg, from the european parliament, a message of respect and admiration to the japanese people and specifically to those heroes who are sacrificing their lives for the good of all japanese people.
madam, i also agree with the president of the european commission.
president of the european commission. − mr president, my answer is yes, but this also applies to candidate countries. some of the countries which are now members of the european union and which were candidate countries some time ago were – according to the negotiations – obliged to revise their safety standards and, in some cases, shut down certain nuclear energy installations. we are serious about this. we will certainly put the question to our turkish partners – i already mentioned that in the previous statement – and not only to turkey, but to all the partners that are close to our borders. i believe that special attention should be paid to this. at the same time, we will share with them the information which we have about our own nuclear installations. that is the right approach to trying to solve this issue constructively.
president of the commission. − we will do whatever we can under the current treaties. as you know, the treaties give the member states some national competence in terms of energy, but we are also using the competence we have. the conclusions agreed by the european council that give the european commission – together with national independent regulators – a very strong role in terms of nuclear safety efforts, represent progress. we will do that publicly with full transparency. but, of course, i am sure you know that from other matters where we sometimes have difficulties in implementing binding legislation and binding rules at european level. having said that, i think that the exercise agreed on by our member states and european partners will be a serious one.
president of the commission. − i will try, but these matters are extremely technical; i myself had to do a crash course to understand some of the language. but first, as regards the amount of food and feed imported, it is really marginal. the european union imports feed and food with a total value of eur 216 million from japan, which represents around 0.4% in value and less than 0.1% in volume of total feed and food imports into the european union. for the japanese economy it also represents very little. i could give you a list of the products imported, but i have only one minute so i cannot do so on this occasion. on the second issue, concerning why there are different values, those values were established after chernobyl. they were based on that scientific evidence, and that is why we believe they are sound. nevertheless, we have now had another tragedy, far away in japan. as i mentioned, japan has very high food safety standards. to avoid a contradiction between their standards and our standards, we have decided – as i announced today – on some kind of harmonisation, at least with japan, while we are reviewing scientifically the global standards we can implement for any kind of imports to the european union. this explains why there are differences; but they are, i believe, transitional differences.
president barroso, thank you for your presence here in plenary with us, for all your answers, for the very lively discussion, and chiefly for your words on the very important eu response to the tragedy in japan. that concludes the item.
looking at the parliament's budget, transport expenditure is a significant item and will remain so in the future. we have to travel from 27 countries to brussels and strasbourg for meetings. i have calculated that the total travel costs of members and parliament staff exceed eur 100 million per year. i think we can look for further savings here. we travel a lot. i can't understand why we pay the same for airline tickets as people who only use airlines occasionally. i would therefore urge the leadership of parliament to take up the matter with the airlines. i think we have a chance of getting a substantial discount. normally in every country, the government and ministries get discounts of 20 to 30%. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! i agree with the rapporteur that serious fraud should not be mixed with accidental errors, because then these accidental errors distract from the most important issues. i also share the criticism of the commission's report, which is too general and lacks information on specific fraud and abuse. our discussion of this would be much more substantive if we had more concrete information. we fight against corruption. we must start this fight from within ourselves and, when we pass laws in this house, we must ensure that they are always transparent, that there are clear criteria for decision-making, that situations of conflict of interest are excluded, that maximum transparency is ensured in the spending of eu funds and that systematic and ongoing controls are ensured. these are the basic anti-corruption tools that we should be using.
mr president, let me first thank our rapporteur, mrs giannakou, and the commission for their excellent cooperation and for an excellent report. are we really in a process of creating a european demos, as my honourable colleague mr hannan just told us? i do not know, i am not venturing that far. i think what we want to do at this particular moment is to strengthen the nascent european public space and basically invigorate the debate on european issues. i mean, the idea in this house is to bring european citizens closer to what we are discussing here and what could be simpler then basically starting to discuss european issues with them. by the way, i can only speak for myself, but i am no bureaucrat – i am a directly elected member of this house. the debate is actually to increase the visibility of european political parties, to which we all belong regardless of whether we are sitting on the left, in the centre or on the right of this house. to bring them out of the shade, because at the moment no one really knows what they do, what is their status, whether they produce any added value – and we in the epp believe that they do. that is the possibility, to actually have some programme presentation and in the future hopefully to fight european elections on european issues and not get bogged down in national rhetoric all the time. this report is positive on three counts. first of all, it brings a certain balance between operational authority within the parliamentary groups and a clear link with what we do in this house, linking funding to presence in this house – in the european parliament. secondly, it brings organisational convergence between european political parties and european foundations, which is quite laudable, and thirdly it tightens and clarifies the funding of european political parties, which i think should be the goal for us all.
mr. chairman, please! european political parties are a new phenomenon in european politics, but as integration and subsidies increase, they are becoming more and more important. political parties and foundations have become participants in the political life of the union and as such should be subject to appropriate anti-abuse regulation. in some cases, however, supranational structures would like to have too much influence on the policies of sovereign member states. i am concerned, for example, about the announcement of the intervention of the union parties in national affairs. as a polish politician, i could not accept a situation where one or more european political parties would organise in my country, for example, a referendum campaign, using eu funds to achieve a specific goal (e.g. in the referendum on my country's accession to the euro area). similar concerns may be expressed by politicians in other countries, such as the united kingdom. i also oppose the demands for increased taxpayer spending on european political parties. especially since in my country the government is cutting national political party subsidies in half and stifling the opposition's ability to reach the public. let's support the national parties first, then the international ones. the european union is the europe of the homeland.
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen! we are discussing four reports in this debate today, so i would like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs for their work and the european commission for its cooperation. i would like to begin by saying a few words about mrs grelier's report, which is a compromise between the political groups and the european commission, and i therefore support the version agreed and voted on in the committee on fisheries. in 2010, the european commission withdrew its proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures in view of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and was to develop a new plan. the new plan was to be compatible with the treaty and to take account of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the request was to be submitted in the third quarter of 2011. unfortunately, it seems that the commission will not have time to prepare the draft regulation in time, and worse still, it will not have the financial means to amend it. that's a bad prospect. the commission is also proposing to extend the fishing authorisations for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008 to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008. however, it is encouraging that, according to the latest information, the commission will most likely wish to delegate some of its powers to the member states in the field of technical measures. it's a very good step towards decentralization. the technical measures applied in the different sea basins vary according to local conditions. the traditional bottom-up approach to fisheries management should be abandoned, with emphasis on the principle of regionalisation, which allows for the conditions of individual marine waters to be taken into account. we must therefore reject any attempt to adopt a universal, common model of fisheries management and call for due consideration to be given to the specific characteristics of the different european seas. the individual approach is the right direction to take towards sustainable management of the fisheries sector. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking and congratulating all the rapporteurs for the work they have put into their reports. these reports are an important element in the implementation of the common fisheries policy. at the same time, attention should be drawn to the fact that the european parliament and the european commission differ in their views on international agreements. in the light of the commission's established practice, it should be noted that, contrary to the treaty of lisbon, which provides for greater involvement of the european parliament in the development of normative acts, the negotiation process for agreements with third countries is overly secretive. this is contrary to the principle of transparency and limits the role of the european parliament, which must play a supervisory role. by influencing the negotiation process, meps can fulfil their mandate. i'm not going to let you down. i am calling for greater involvement of members of the european parliament in the negotiation process, because the current form of the general report on the negotiation process by a european commission official is not sufficient.
the first item on the agenda is a joint debate on and within the single market: the report by sandra kalnieta on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on governance and partnership in the single market (2010/2289 ((ini)) (a7-0083/2011), the report by antonio fernando correia de campos on the single market for europeans (2010/2278 ((ini)) (a7-0072/2011), the report by cristian silviu busoia on the single market for business and growth (2010/2277 ((ini)) (a7-0071/2011) and the commission statement on public procurement. i would like to welcome commissioner michel barnier and council president enikő győri to the chamber. i now give the floor to the rapporteurs. the first speaker is sandra kalniete.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are at a key moment in this work we have undertaken together, in the light of the lucid, complete and precise examination of the internal market by mario monti, in the light of the report by louis grech, which you adopted by a very large majority, and at a time, if we listen carefully to the citizens in each of our countries, when it is time to raise the horizon in terms of growth, employment and social cohesion. what words are coming from brussels or strasbourg to the people? they're necessary words, but they're always difficult or compelling words, right now. these are words of regulation and this is my job , of governance, of supervision, of deficit or debt reduction, necessary words, but binding and difficult words. i think that we need to add other words, and above all other actions, to restore confidence in the european project, in the reasons for being together rather than each in his own home or each for himself to face the challenges of globalisation. that is the main reason for our work, and i would like to personally thank the three rapporteurs who have just spoken: sandra kalniete, antonio correia de campos and, just now, cristian buşoi. i would also like to thank president malcolm harbour - that has been said - who, with great efficiency and attentiveness, managed to get almost eleven parliamentary committees to work in a very short time, and then i would like to add my thanks to the coordinators of the various political groups, because there was a lot of coordination between you, and with regard to the multitude of subjects we have dealt with. and all of this means that, if you really want to, you will be sending a very strong signal to the other institutions, but also to businesses and citizens. in line with the monti report and the grech report, president barroso has asked me to work with twelve of my colleagues - this is a collegial work within the college - on the relaunch of the internal market, on the structural reforms that are needed to bring back the two, three or four growth points that are there. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in this single market, which is the first stage of the european political project, 60% of our exports are to the other 26 countries. each country, germany, the largest or the smallest of our countries, exports on average 60% of its goods and services to the next largest market. there would be more growth in this market if it worked better. that's how the single market act was born. that is how we identified the 50 proposals that ended up in this little blue booklet which i sent to all your countries, in the 23 languages, to each of the national parliamentarians, trade unions and professional organizations. we then took the time to select from these proposals those which would be most effective in improving the lives of businesses and citizens. and so next week, on wednesday, the college will debate the single market act at the end of this debate, and before the action, and in the light of your deliberation and your debates today. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that to win the battle for competitiveness and growth, every territory is needed, every company is needed and every citizen is needed. each territory explains, at the very beginning of the single market and the single act, the desire of the then president of the commission, jacques delors, to accompany the construction of the single market with a cohesion policy so that the regions whose development is lagging behind are also on the verge of the battle of growth and competitiveness - all regions, including the most remote regions, the outermost regions. every company is needed when it comes to innovation or creation - and i am thinking of the patents we are advancing - when it comes to small and mediumsized enterprises finding funding, having less complexity or administrative complications, when it comes to trading electronically, in confidence, when it comes to participating in public procurement - i will come back to that in a moment. every territory, every company, every citizen. we are, you are, in our daily lives, in turn, consumers, users of services, savers, shareholders, workers, artisans, and the objective is that mobility is facilitated across borders, that professional qualifications, skills, social rights are respected and recognized, that we can access quality public services, that we can be reassured or secure when we buy products, online or otherwise, that we do not have double taxation. these are some of the examples we need to deal with in order to make the internal market work better. what is the next step beyond your debate? the european council of 24 and 25 march welcomed this approach which we have taken and which it has itself taken in the context of co-legislation. we have been asked to choose priorities, and that is how - i repeat - next week i will propose to the college, together with my colleagues who have worked very hard and whom i thank, that we choose twelve levers to make the internal market work better for businesses and citizens. for each of these levers, for example mobility, financing of small businesses, intellectual property, taxation, public services, social cohesion, we will propose a key action which will have the characteristic of being new, of being - we hope - effective for businesses and for citizens, and of being deliverable within two years. deliverable, which means that the commission proposes it and that you are able, together with the council, to decide on it and adopt it in 2011 and 2012. in 2012, the single act and the single market will be 20 years old. we have no right, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to listen to what the peoples of europe are saying, to make this anniversary a nostalgic or a melancholy anniversary. it must be proactive, dynamic for growth, and that is how we want to celebrate it through this single market act. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will do so. for each of these levers we will have identified other ideas, other actions, other proposals which the commission will put forward in parallel, but there will be 12 key actions which will symbolise this operational work. i hope that the european council at the highest level, the parliament, which you represent, the commission, on our part, the hungarian presidency, which i thank, madam minister, for its commitment, will be able, somewhat solemnly, before the end of june or july, to commit themselves to delivering this single market act. that, mr president, is all i could say on the subject. you asked me, in a statement from the commission, to mention one of the aspects. i would like to do that now, to allow time for the debate which is in the single market act and which concerns 17% of the european economy, namely public procurement and public contracts. and i would like to say a few words, as the buşoi report emphasizes, about the four projects we are undertaking with you in the public procurement. the first is the general revision of the 2004 directives to ensure the best use of public funds, to allow as many companies as possible to participate in public procurement and also to allow the purchase of high quality products and services with less bureaucracy. in concrete terms, i want to simplify procedures, make them more flexible, and see how the specific needs of small local authorities can be better taken into account, for example by making simplified procedures available to them. secondly, to facilitate access to the public market, in particular the cross-border participation of small and mediumsized enterprises. and finally, to encourage, as chairman malcolm harbour and your committee have wanted, in some way, more responsible purchasing, more ecological or green purchasing and fostering innovation or social inclusion. the various objectives of the reform will now be translated into simpler and more balanced rules. we have conducted, but not completed, a very extensive consultation and economic evaluation on the ground. we have a green paper and are currently looking for the most operational proposals. it will not all be in legislation. at the same time, the commission will work on sectoral initiatives to make better use of public procurement, to promote the achievement of objectives such as those in the europe 2020 strategy. this includes, for example, the updating of the manual on green public procurement, which i am preparing with my colleague potočnik, the implementation of the european plan for energy efficiency - we are working on this with mr oettinger or mrs hedegaard - and the promotion of pre-market procurement projects, innovative procurement in general, with mr tajani and mrs geoghegan-quinn. it's a subject we're conducting. this is the first construction site. the second project is the concession. without waiting for the outcome of this long-term work to modernise the public procurement framework, i would like to see tangible progress on the question of concessions. ladies and gentlemen, concessions are playing an increasingly important role in the creation of public service infrastructure. 60% of public-private partnerships in europe are undertaken through concessions. but apart from works concessions, there is no european legislation on concessions at the moment i am speaking. and even if the general principles of the treaty apply, there is a real legal uncertainty in this area which weighs on the development of these contracts. i want to see the 24 judgments of the court of justice in recent years. i want to propose the creation of a light framework, limited to certain basic rules, which will not call into question national legislative frameworks when they are working well. it will not impose an excessive administrative burden on local authorities, particularly because of the thresholds i will be proposing. i know there have been doubts and debates in several of your groups. i am convinced, however, that by listening to everyone, if we set our goals correctly, we can avoid misunderstandings. public authorities will remain free to organise the public service themselves, but if they decide to outsource it, who can then object to a minimum of transparency and rules that ensure that there is no discrimination? for me, this is an imperative to optimize the use of public money, to reduce the practice of awarding without adequate publicity, or without an effective right of appeal, as well as certain risks of corruption. as far as companies are concerned, while we want to revive the internal market, who can oppose the idea of making it a reality in terms of concessions? i am thinking in particular of small and mediumsized enterprises which do not have the means available to large companies today to identify and secure contracts abroad if they are not published. having a minimum framework on concessions will allow for transparency, information and, therefore, easier access for smaller companies to a number of markets. it is also a question of better regulation. targeted, measured legislation is a better option that will be cheaper than trying to solve problems through the rule of offences alone. the third area - i will speak about it shortly - is the european defence market. we will work with member states on the implementation of the 2009 directive, which expires in a few weeks. the aim is to adapt compensation policies, which are often contrary to european law. and i will be organising a conference on this subject, with mr tajani, on the question of the european defence industry market, on the very premises of parliament in brussels on 23 may. finally, i would like to mention a subject which has been neglected for too long, namely the international dimension of public procurement. the objective is clear: more market access for our companies, and we are naturally prepared to offer more, too, in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. more trade will benefit all. but we have a problem today, based on this assumption, open trade and the profit that goes with it, which i would like to mention. the truth is that our major partners - the us, japan, in the gpa, china, bilaterally - do not really want to commit to opening up their markets further. and we have no real leverage to negotiate, since our own markets are already considered, almost naturally, to be open. the international commitments under the gpa and the world trade organisation, ladies and gentlemen, have not yet been transposed into european law. in this context, member states apply the rules in very different ways, and this creates distortions in the internal market. and as a result, our companies in europe today are facing an unbalanced situation - i am reminded of the case of the motorways in poland - on the one hand, foreign companies which enjoy very wide access in our country, often going much further than what the european union has negotiated, on the other hand, our own companies, which are having difficulties participating in the markets of some of our major partners. that is why we intend to propose this year, together with my colleague karel de gucht, a legislative instrument which will transpose our international obligations in the field of public procurement into european law and give us the negotiating leverage we need. we are for openness, not for naivety. the aim is to give european buyers a strong and clear legal basis to treat offers from companies from the country with which we have an agreement differently from those with which the european union has not yet agreed, and to offer more security. let me be clear: we are not talking about turning europe into a fortress, but we must place our companies in a realistic, fair, open but not naive context. i would like to take this opportunity, as you have asked me, mr president, and as your parliament has asked me, to refer to this important sector, which will be one of the 12 levers for the revival of the single market which i mentioned at the beginning of my speech, namely public procurement and the modernisation which we will propose in agreement with you in the coming weeks.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. as mrs kalniete said, the european union, the economy, needs a locomotive. yes, i share that view. you may remember that at the beginning of the hungarian eu presidency, the hungarian prime minister made it clear in this room that it is not enough to carry out the post-crisis management, to encourage member states to adopt tighter fiscal policies, and to monitor this. we're working on a lot of these pieces of legislation right now. a comprehensive economic crisis management package has also been prepared. we must also be careful to remain credible in the eyes of our citizens. and that's only going to happen if we can create jobs. we're looking for resources to create jobs, to figure out what we can do to solve this. and i am convinced that the single market is the untapped opportunity in which our future lies, in order to implement the european union's strategy for 2020. along these lines, i therefore wholeheartedly welcome the commitment of both the european commission and the european parliament to relaunch the single market. and the priorities that have been identified by the commission and by this parliament in the three excellent reports. we have already had the opportunity to discuss the various ideas and positions on a report which was prepared earlier by your colleague, mr louis grech. and i am convinced that these three reports will contribute to the deliberative debate which will lead to concrete measures being taken together by 2012, the 20th anniversary of which commissioner barnier has spoken. as you know, and as the commissioner has mentioned, the competitiveness council held an exchange of views on the outcome of the social consultation on 10 march, which focused on the criteria for determining the areas of priority commitment of the institutions and the member states. building on this debate, the hungarian presidency is preparing to adopt conclusions on the proposed priority actions at the competitiveness council on 30 may. let me remind you of the larger context. in the current context, the political and economic pressures and the measures taken to alleviate them make the single market less popular with citizens, businesses and institutions. but i believe, in the words of professor monti, that the single market is needed most urgently at this time. when, under the impact of a crisis, we instinctively seek to retreat into narrow but well-known national boundaries. but i am convinced that this temptation must not be allowed. it is therefore clearly time to give the single market a political boost. as you have stressed in your previous report on the creation of a single market for consumers and citizens, and as the mario monti report states, the single market is being put to the test. will it become a tool to bring the union closer to its citizens by bringing tangible improvements to our daily lives? or it will simply be a battleground to protect the bottlenecks and the retained sectors that impede the functioning of the single market. the answer to these questions will depend on how much we do in the coming months. after the european parliament adopts its resolution today, the commission will be able to adopt its revised communication in mid-april, as it has already said. we hope that all the political messages and those which you have expressed in your report will be incorporated in the commission document. once the legislative proposals are in place, we look forward to a special partnership with you and the commission, which will allow for the rapid examination and adoption of the main measures envisaged in the final single market package. i would now like to highlight some of the elements of the three reports before us, without however responding exhaustively to all their indications. the presidency welcomes the rapporteur's wish to put the single market on the agenda of the european council. we believe that progress on the single market package is part of the general policy guidelines of the union as referred to in the treaty. the european council is indeed responsible for setting policy. the agenda for this is set by the president of the european council, but i would like to remind everyone that the european council conclusions of 24-25 march also referred to the importance of the single market. the presidency would like to thank parliament for its consistent support to the competitiveness council in bringing concrete action to bear on the creation of a single patent system. we are all aware that a unified patent system would greatly increase the competitiveness of enterprises. and we had a very good debate here, thanks to the cooperation of parliament, which has given the council the mandate to launch this in the context of enhanced cooperation. we also agree that completing the digital single market and strengthening and improving the position of smes are essential to boosting european innovation. citizens' mobility, in particular through the recognition of professional qualifications, can raise further issues of concern to european citizens. we therefore share the view that increased eu action in this area and immediate tangible results are a priority. the presidency also noted that almost all the reports analysed, including the earlier grech report and the correia de campos report, place particular emphasis on ensuring that citizens of the union can exercise their internal market rights. in this context, we welcome the results achieved in this area thanks to the measures implemented by the commission. this includes the creation of the 'europe for you' portal, the solvit network and the single entry points under the services directive. however, we share your view that more can be done to ensure that eu citizens enjoy their rights. finally, allow me to turn to the other priority on the hungarian presidency's agenda. in my parliamentary consultations so far on the six-pack, i have often heard the criticism that the member states, that is to say the council, and the european council, are neglecting to stimulate growth and the recovery of the real economy in the interests of financial macro-stability. or if not, then it only allocates soft, uncountable means to the latter end. and that this is the only thing that is in the eu 2020 strategy. i believe, as i said in my introduction, that the single market and the enormous growth potential it offers can provide the appropriate response to these concerns and ensure a balanced approach to the union's action. i think it is our paramount task to make this process, the strengthening of the single market, as transparent as possible, in close cooperation with the european parliament. the council is ready to cooperate in this respect, in full partnership with the commission and parliament, and their members. thank you very much, mr. president.
ladies and gentlemen! these five speeches - three speeches on behalf of the commission, one by commissioner barnier and one by minister győri - have launched a great debate, very important for the future of the european union and its citizens, and for our rapid development. i would like to remind you once again that the very idea of renewing the common market is an idea that was born in the imco committee. i would like to congratulate once again all my colleagues on this committee, and i put my thanks and congratulations in the hands of mr malcolm harbour. this is also where the idea of the mario monti report came from, an excellent report which is very helpful in our work. i also thank commissioner michel barnier for his very comprehensive and excellent presentation of the european commission's proposals in response to our reports. as regards public procurement, it is often the achilles' heel of our activities in the member states. it is therefore extremely important that we move this matter forward and the hungarian presidency will certainly be involved in this. we are convinced of this because this is a matter of great importance to europeans. the importance of these reports and the importance of this debate is shown by the number of parliamentary committees that have produced opinions. that is eight committees and you know very well that it is very rare for eight parliamentary committees to prepare opinions for reports. now these committees will take their turn. mrs. josefa andrés barea, on behalf of the international trade commission, please.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. − we will not achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and bring about innovation and competitiveness in the economy unless we take a holistic approach to the single market. i would therefore like to thank commissioner barnier for his comprehensive approach to the single market and professor mario monti for his excellent report. i would like to draw attention to four important elements. firstly, a european patent which could be granted next year, on the 20th anniversary of the single market. secondly, the issue of copyright being taken seriously, which is a great hope and opportunity for the development of a creative market that should be regulated jointly. i am thinking in particular of a common copyright management system and the seriousness of orphan works, as well as the reduction of the burden on smes. this concerns very specific steps such as simplification of accounting, protection of trademarks, a european statute for foundations and, above all, the possibility of linking the business register. if we implement what i have just said, i hope that 20 million small businesses will be able to function effectively and freely in the european single market.
mr harbour has answered. then each one is free to interpret the answer fully or not. you may interpret it as not exhaustive, others may interpret it as exhaustive. but that's the end of the discussion. we cannot turn such an important debate as we are having into a bilateral discussion between you and mr harbour.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that while we were working on the report on your rich document we were, just like yourself, constantly conscious that the single market is there to serve europeans. maybe this is exactly the reason why the negotiations between different political groups on the final form of the text were so difficult. i do agree with them that even if we do not fall in love with the single market, we can be very emotional about it. it is really good that the european parliament sends a clear signal today to the commission and to the council in the form of 15 priority proposals, and i am personally satisfied that we underlined the importance of the mobility of our citizens. better access to banking services; easier recognition of professional qualifications; full portability of pensions: these are the fields in which citizens need solutions in order to study, work and invest in different member states throughout their lives. europeans expect concrete actions from us for concrete needs, and we must deliver. take, for example, voice and data roaming charges. it is high time these stop hindering the mobility of europeans on this continent – our continent without internal borders. this issue is also addressed in the document we are going to vote on today. finally, the european parliament is proposing an idea to organise an annual single market forum, and this platform should enable a genuine discussion with citizens. to me, this is a crucial way of involving european citizens in the reform of the single market for its 20th anniversary, and for that event i wish all of us much success.
the single market may have seemed a pipe dream 60 years ago, but today it is a reality and a daily reality for almost 500 million europeans. of course, on the one hand we can be proud that the idea of the european union has been so wonderfully put into practice, but on the other hand we must be aware that this project will never really end, because the world is moving forward, europe is still developing, and the citizens of the european union will increasingly benefit from the opportunities offered to them by the single market. the single market act under discussion today and the results of the social consultation clearly show that the harmonisation of the eu market is not just about economic processes in the broad sense of the word, but also about legislative solutions to help ordinary citizens to benefit fully from the internal market of the union. i therefore welcome commissioner barnier's proposals, which are closely linked to the need to increase legal certainty in the area of the functioning of private international law, as they seek practical solutions to the problems arising from the mobility of citizens. these are issues that may not seem directly related to the improvement of the functioning of the free market, but which are becoming increasingly problematic for ordinary citizens and businesses operating across national borders. the more efficient functioning of the common market will, in a sense, force the whole of the european union to develop cooperation also in the field of civil and administrative law. the european market must adapt to modern solutions, and this will always present new challenges for its modernisation. i shall therefore look forward with great hope and enthusiasm to the fulfilment of the objectives of the single market act.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs on a very well-done job. we all agree that the european union needs a better functioning common market, and i therefore welcomed the proposals to deepen and improve it. i would like to see the debate on the deepening of the internal market include the largest and most ambitious project, and one which, despite many years of work, has not yet become a reality, namely the common market in services. the european commission has presented a number of ambitious and innovative ideas to deepen this market. they are valuable and necessary for its smooth functioning, but at the same time i call for the continuation and strengthening of projects which still serve citizens and businesses in a limited way. the services directive is one of the first steps towards opening up the services sector, but we should not stop there. we should use the experience gained in working on it to remove further obstacles and simplify existing legislation. many sectors remain closed, many practices in our member states hinder the free flow of services, and the flagship idea of the services directive, the single points of contact, is not fully operational. i'm not going to let you get away with this. in my view, many of the initiatives in the single market act will not deliver the expected benefits unless we improve the community services market. the effective implementation of many of the act's initiatives depends on the smooth functioning of the services market. it is enough to mention the recognition of professional qualifications, electronic commerce and better conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, although the list is of course much longer. i therefore call on the european commission to consistently open up the services sector as the basis for the success of the remaining single market act initiatives.
in writing. the definition of the single european market act has been changed in all cases since professor mario monti prepared the report. i look forward to the 12 initiatives that the european commission will consider crucial for the future of the single market. but i also have a pretty good idea what's in them. so today i want to talk about not so much specific projects like patents, copyright, or public contracts, but the principles that i think we should be guided by. i believe that future regulations on the common market should reflect the philosophy of the common market developed over the years and be adapted to the realities of the 21st century. as an example, let me give you the principle that has guided the european community since its inception. it is the defence of the so-called parallel trade, i.e. the trade in legal products outside the official distribution channels, such as the sale in germany of grundig tv sets legally purchased in france. today, parallel trading is very much happening online, on all kinds of platforms. this right must be defended by supporting the development of the common market on the internet, the development of the e-commerce industry, the greater availability of cultural goods in legal online shops. we have a lot to do in this area, both in terms of making it easier for businesses to operate in the virtual world and in terms of increasing consumer confidence in online transactions.
in writing. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the work they have put into the single market reports and congratulate them on the final result. i am pleased that on the 20th anniversary of the single market, we have before us a document that will help europeans to realise its full potential. i believe that its entry into force will strengthen the competitiveness of european markets and bring us closer to achieving the objectives set out in the 2020 strategy. i consider the ten-t networks to be one of the key factors in achieving a well-functioning single market and i am pleased that their special importance has been highlighted in the reports. the ten-t networks are one of the pillars of a well-functioning market economy, creating the conditions for fair competition across the european union. in the context of the decisions to be taken on the future shape of the ten-t network, i would like to draw attention to the need to better connect the so-called old 15 with the new member states and to the fact that greater internal transport cohesion in an enlarged european union is a major factor in the eu's competitiveness.
the marietta giannakou report is the way to fulfil the provisions of article 10 (4) of the treaty on european union and article 244 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the parliament and the council should agree on the status of european-level parties and their foundations and on the rules for the funding of both parties and foundations. however, attention should be drawn to the provisions in paragraphs 10 and 11 concerning the future of the so-called cross-border lists in elections to the european parliament. it is true that this is only a proposal for the future, but at the moment it is not accepted by the citizens. this is particularly the case for member states which have experience with national lists and which have abolished them. the timing of such proposals is also important. the crisis and the proposed austerity measures are also a reason for the reluctance to enlarge the european institutions. from our point of view, the possibility of enlarging the european parliament itself, which is linked to the enlargement of the european union with new member states, seems to be more important than enlargement by means of new letters.
a single market without exclusions, for citizens and businesses alike i could sum up in one sentence the main thrust of today's debate on the already approved package of reports on the single market act. i would like to highlight with great interest and satisfaction the proposals which are designed to facilitate the operation of small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. access to public procurement for smes is very important. the announcement of simplified procurement, in particular the reduction of financial barriers in public procurement that exclude small and medium-sized enterprises from procurement, as well as the inclusion of the specificities of procurement in the local market, deserves particular support. similarly, it should be recognised that smes expect assistance in accessing the market, administrative facilitation or the resolution of patent cases. i am personally looking forward to commissioner barnier's announcement of the 12 levers to stimulate the single market. it is very encouraging to note that the period for evaluating, in particular, the innovative solutions related to these levers will also be relatively short.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? last year's floods in the eastern european union caused massive damage in virtually all regions of the eu. many of them are still suffering the effects of the war. many people are still waiting for the financial help promised by the authorities. serious damage is particularly affecting agriculture, infrastructure and the road network, as well as cultural heritage sites. many citizens suffered, often losing their entire livelihood. in poland alone, the estimated direct losses amounted to almost eur 3 billion. this is therefore well above the threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund. the same applies to the other countries applying for the fund. the use of the european funds provided for in the interinstitutional agreement will bring considerable relief to the regions most affected by the disaster in the implementation of the tasks related to the removal of the consequences of the natural disaster. i am strongly in favour of the launch of the solidarity fund.
in writing. − 2010 was marked by floods in many european countries, including poland twice. the european community's solidarity in the relief efforts and the measures taken to alleviate the hardship of the people affected by the floods, who have lost a large part (often all) of their material assets and suffered health damage and even lost their loved ones, should be welcomed. in order to promote the idea of solidarity in need, in suffering, we need to think about flood prevention. the way to prevent this is to manage water: regulate rivers, build reservoirs, etc. we should be directing much more of the cohesion fund's resources for environmental purposes to flood prevention. i am voting for the böge report and i am calling for more money in the budget after 2013.
in writing. - i am very pleased that such positive decisions are being taken in the european parliament. meps from the flood-affected regions have been pushing hard for eu aid to be granted, and as we know, the road to success has not been easy. the transfer of eur 182.4 million for compensation for the effects of last year's floods is extremely important not only for the regions affected by the natural disaster, but also for the inhabitants. poland and the carpathian basin are particularly affected by the natural disasters and i hope that the funds allocated for the reconstruction of infrastructure will be used effectively. today's decision by parliament is final and opens the procedure for the transfer of eu money, which is why i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund - floods in 2010 in poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania.
in writing. − i have supported the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. eu support to countries that have been affected by natural disasters is of paramount importance. the damage caused by the storm is estimated at more than 2.9 billion euros. union financial support will help rebuild the municipal infrastructure destroyed by the elements: water supply, sewerage, roads and bridges. it's been almost a year since the flood. help is still needed. it should be up and running sooner. to this end, the procedures for granting financial assistance from the solidarity fund should be shortened.
in writing. - the comoros' fisheries sector is very specific. the catch made by local fishermen is rarely enough to meet the needs of the local community. this is due to the poorly developed or non-existent port infrastructure and fishing fleet. the people living on the islands in this part of the indian ocean are very poor, face unemployment and, as the rapporteur himself writes, are virtually dependent on financial support from abroad. the partnership agreement, which allows eu vessels to fish in comoros in exchange for financial subsidies, will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the economy of the region. but we should monitor how these funds are spent and whether they actually contribute to improving the situation in the sector.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? since the beginning of my work in the european parliament, i have strongly supported ukraine's pro-eu aspirations. the country is one of poland's most important partners in its eastern policy. in addition, my country is preparing together with ukraine for next year's european football championship. in order to achieve the union's foreign and security policy objectives, it is of the utmost importance for the community as a whole to strengthen cooperation with ukraine. i consider supporting the young democracy there to be one of our primary duties. i therefore support the acceleration of the negotiations for a free trade area and the widest possible participation of this country in eu programmes. by voting in favour of the resolution, i agree to the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and ukraine.
in writing. − the participation of neighbourhood countries in eu programmes and agencies is one of the most concrete forms of their cooperation with the union. we should aim to ensure that the selection of these programmes best serves the reforms undertaken in these countries to bring them closer to the union.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty introduces far-reaching changes in the common commercial policy. first, it extended this policy to include, inter alia, foreign direct investment. the second change was the decision-making procedure. the council now decides by qualified majority and parliament gains the right to co-decide. this means that the approval of our assembly will be needed both for the ratification of trade agreements and for investment matters (concerning foreign direct investment). the union must develop, within the framework of the common commercial policy, a european investment policy that meets the expectations of investors and host countries. investment policy must also take account of the european union's foreign policy priorities. in this context, the issue of regulation at international level, with particular reference to wto negotiations, also arises. the new powers conferred on the union by the treaty of lisbon also indirectly affect the competences of the european parliament, by including it on an equal footing with the council in the decision-making process in the area of foreign direct investment. a new coherent and integrated union investment policy should have a positive impact on global economic progress and development. as one of the most important economic blocs, the eu has a strong negotiating position which, through a unified policy on direct investment, can contribute to the competitiveness of the eu, its businesses and employment.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! on 5 april, parliament adopted resolutions on the protection of the communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud. the european commission, together with the member states, is committed to protecting the eu's financial interests by fighting fraud, abuse and corruption. the adopted document contains statistics that are often alarming. there is a lack of data, control systems are not always working properly and many governments are not cooperating. since these abuses are primarily against the interests of the taxpayer, i believe that every effort should be made to eliminate them completely. i support the european parliament's view that member states must exercise effective control over the spending of the eu budget and provide full and reliable information in this respect. it is equally important to introduce open and transparent public procurement systems and to improve the supervision of simplified customs procedures throughout the community. these actions will not only help to detect and combat corruption cases now, but will also significantly reduce the number of corruption cases in the future.
in writing. − the european anti-fraud office conducts several hundred investigations each year into cases of evasion of eu debts and misuse of eu funds. hiding the scale of abuse does not do any good, on the contrary, in this situation we are not aware of the dangers and consequently we do not fight them. i'm concerned about the current situation of low recovery rates for money misappropriated. the money recovered from the beneficiaries between 2007 and 2009 represents only 10% of the amounts to be recovered. this is unacceptable. we need to put in place an effective recovery system and closely monitor the progress made in this area. the control of abuses cannot be confined to the european institutions but should be carried out in individual member states. they should develop periodic assessments of uniform public procurement systems to prevent corruption. moreover, member states should maintain transparency and accountability in the area of public procurement. efforts should also be made, both within the union and in the member states, to simplify procedures and to reduce red tape.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament adopted a report by ms giannakou on the status and rules for the funding of political parties at european level. i believe that the development of european political parties is a key tool to increase public interest in european union affairs, which i believe will lead to an increase in voter turnout in the european parliament elections. in addition, political parties provide a platform for dialogue with citizens, which takes place through numerous seminars and political discussions. as regards the financing of political parties, the maastricht and nice treaties, by introducing the possibility of financing european political parties, have enabled them to operate independently of parliamentary groups. however, despite the clear step towards improving the status of european parties, their main source of funding is still membership fees and to a lesser extent donations. i would like to express the hope that the adopted document will lead to a significant improvement in the position of political parties at european level.
in writing. − all actions aimed at the development and integration of the member states deserve attention. there is no doubt that the existing system of economic cooperation in the form of the single market in the european union facilitates the functioning of all citizens by, inter alia, removing trade barriers or allowing the free movement of persons. however, new proposals must be implemented gradually to avoid stagnation within the structure. let us consider whether political leadership would not be a good idea to revive the single market. the president of the european council, in liaison with the president of the commission, would be given the power to coordinate and supervise the process of recovery, without however excluding the involvement of the member states. partnership as part of the management of the single market should be based on dialogue with member states' parliaments as well as cooperation with local and regional authorities. joint engagement would help to implement the directives in the right way and would produce the expected results.
in writing. - the single market we are talking about today is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of economic integration within the union, but we must remember that our task is not stagnation but a constant quest for perfection. a coherent whole depends on its component parts, which, like the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle, form a strong, strong, and stable structure. such components of the common market are people, whose rights and duties should always take priority. our aim is to achieve a sound and dynamic development that will enable economic growth, which can only be achieved through improved economic, social and governance. let's think about it, shouldn't political strategies be fully focused on the citizens? human capital needs to be developed and enhanced, and a genuine deepening of the market should benefit every european - worker, consumer and entrepreneur.
in writing. - it is important that we have taken up such a broad discussion of the common, single european market, which has been in operation for 20 years and has not achieved its full potential. despite all the legislation, recommendations and mutual assurances, we cannot talk about the completion of a fully-fledged single market, and without single markets there will be no united europe at all. it is in creating a single market that lies the potential for deepening the idea of the union. why is it that the creation of a barrier-free market is still not possible, despite the general agreement of the countries on this policy?! the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. we must remove protectionist barriers to revive the single market. i agree with the view that the structures and processes for managing the single market are too complex. this is mainly due to too much diversity within the union. the consolidation and introduction of a single currency throughout the union is a prerequisite for the creation of a new quality of the common market. the common market cannot be just for large companies, but also for small and mediumsized enterprises, and above all for consumers. transparency and consistency is our goal. the creation of a fully-fledged single market is a priority for us, and the european council and the european parliament should therefore assess the state of the single market annually, which will allow us to monitor how far we have succeeded in achieving the objectives we set ourselves.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? to maintain its position as a world economic leader, europe must continuously support and stimulate economic growth. the single european market is of fundamental importance to both businesses and consumers. we should pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the drivers of economic growth and provide a significant number of jobs. innovative solutions and appropriate financial instruments should be used to strengthen their competitiveness, access to information and participation in research programmes. an interesting solution is the proposal to create project bonds, which will allow companies to raise funds. the digital single market should also be an important part of the economy. in particular, e-commerce, which contributes to the growth of cross-border trade, should be encouraged. it also seems necessary to create a european patent and a unified judicial system for settling patent disputes. i am convinced that a well-functioning single market will contribute to sustainable economic growth and therefore support the resolution.
if we are to draw any lessons from japan today, we must be very careful. doing homework requires concentration and attention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. there will be more power plants built just outside our borders that lack our safety standards and are not monitored by our regulators. such projects are already being developed in the kaliningrad region and in belarus for central europe. the flight of nuclear energy from the union will show the illusory nature of our efforts. once again, we will hit the competitiveness of our energy sector and thus our economy and industry. once again, our green intentions will benefit our competition, mainly from russia. so if we are to raise the bar on nuclear power today, we must have a guarantee that the electricity produced by reactors outside our borders will be subject to the same stringent criteria.
mr. chairman, please! on april 26, it will be a quarter of a century since the chernobyl disaster, the worst nuclear accident in history. twenty-five years later, we remember all the victims of this tragedy, the people who were affected and those who are still feeling the effects of this disaster. this tragic anniversary coincided with the events in japan. in the wake of the chernobyl disaster, i would like to express my solidarity with the japanese people who are still suffering from the effects of the tsunami wave caused by the accident at the fukushima nuclear power plant. food products from areas irradiated with radioactive cesium 137 are still contaminated in ukraine. the half-life of this isotope is 30 years. greenpeace has conducted studies that show that in at least two districts, zytomyr and ekaterinburg, the local population consumes contaminated milk, mushrooms, fruits, freshwater fish and vegetables. according to official data, there is a high level of radiation in the area 30 km from the power plant. however, it is estimated that this may be about 50 thousand km2 in total in the area of many districts of ukraine. currently, 165 reactors are operating in europe, excluding russia. it is important that they are not only located within the european union but also in neighbouring countries bordering the union. russia and belarus are starting to build power plants along the union's borders. the question is, with what guarantee of safety? energy should not be purchased from nuclear power plants outside the european union that do not meet the highest safety standards set by endurance tests in the european union. (the president cut the speaker off) i repeat: nuclear power stations are being installed by russia and belarus on the borders of the european union. i therefore believe that the european union countries should not buy nuclear energy from these plants unless they pass the same strength tests as those required in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the term ldc was coined 40 years ago to help developed countries and other donors identify the communities in the world that need the most help. the un's ldc definition is not based solely on per capita income but also takes into account human capital or constraints on economic development. the distribution of these countries is very distinctive because the vast majority of them are located in africa. the european union is rightly paying particular attention to this continent. one of the fundamental problems is that the number of countries that are ldcs is growing, and there are only three countries that are developed enough to leave the group. this is why the un conference should seriously consider how to implement an effective, measurable and easily monitored exit strategy for ldcs. i am glad that the european commission and the council have proposals that can help in this process. one of them is the promotion of inclusive growth. i know that some members are afraid of the term because they are not sure that growth will be truly inclusive. but on the other hand, without growth, we're not going to build the economic capacity of developing countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this means that the real cause of poverty is politics. you have very rich countries that have no natural resources, like switzerland or japan, and on the other hand you have countries that are rich in natural resources, but poor. this means that politics is the cause of poverty, not the other way around. the european union's role, therefore, should be to provide political assistance to the ldcs, in addition to aid and trade, to help them achieve stability and democracy. it's our duty.
i would like to congratulate iceland very much on its status as a candidate country for membership of the european union. the commission communication shows that iceland's overall preparations to meet the requirements of the european union are good and on schedule. however, it should not be forgotten that the strong commitment of both the government and the public is a prerequisite for a country's accession to the european union. i therefore believe that an effective public information strategy is crucial to building public support for iceland's membership of the european union. the polish experience shows that not only broad government action but also national media, local ngos and international cooperation at regional and local level can play a significant role here.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as we know, iceland started accession negotiations in july 2010. from the outset, it has been in a privileged position due to its membership of the european economic area. its progress towards eu membership is visible. the prospect of accession is welcomed, but there are still issues of contention, such as the eu's ban on whaling, iceland's desire to protect its fisheries and agricultural markets, and the icesave dispute. further progress is needed, particularly in the areas of fisheries, agriculture and rural development. it is important to reach an agreement on the fishing quotas. the need to align iceland's fisheries legislation with the eu's internal market rules should be emphasised. let us not forget that iceland is a country whose economy is largely based on fishing. therefore, after joining the eu, it would like to retain some control over the management of fisheries in its exclusive economic zone. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the conservation of fishery resources. the ban on whaling is part of the eu's legal acquis, which each new country must accept. the recent public opinion survey results are noteworthy, showing an increase in public support for the continuation of the accession negotiations and an increase in confidence in the european parliament.
in writing. the prospect of iceland's accession was welcomed. however, there are still issues of contention, such as the european union's ban on whaling and iceland's desire to protect its fisheries markets. i think we can't apply any discount rate to whaling. whatever the historical circumstances, we cannot allow a situation in which a country which is applying for eu membership intends to hunt these protected and rare animals. the standards we have worked to adopt and enforce in the european community for many years cannot be reduced to a brutal reality, interpreted by tradition. another issue is the mackerel catch. as you know, despite calls for responsible fishing, in 2010 the reykjavik government unilaterally set a tac for this species that was much higher than the limits set by scientific advice. the commission notes that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have provided any evidence that the icelandic authorities have not provided any evidence. in addition, it announced that it would introduce a fishing limit of 146 000 tonnes for 2011. this attitude makes me very anxious about future fisheries cooperation with iceland. we all know that this conflict is putting iceland's accession negotiations at risk. however, i personally believe that in both cases we should not accept any concessions and enforce compliance with the standards set by the union in the fisheries sector.
former ivory coast president laurent gbagbo reportedly surrendered yesterday and asked for un protection. negotiations on the surrender of gbagbo are ongoing. it comes after troops loyal to democratically elected president ouattara seized the presidential residence in abidjan. prime minister soro has said that gbagbo's rule will end in a matter of hours. i'm not sure, but i hope so. but we do know that civilians, including women and children, are also killed in armed conflict. the clashes between supporters of both politicians killed about 1,500 people and forced a million to flee their homes. one of gbagbo's advisers said a few days ago that even a possible massacre in abidjan would not convince the former president to admit defeat in the presidential election and surrender power. so it's easy to predict what should happen in côte d'ivoire: a quick end to the fighting, the departure of the former president from the country, which will significantly stabilize the situation, justice for all those who committed war crimes or killings, and stabilization of the country. the european union should support all these activities.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am delighted to have this opportunity to have an exchange of views with parliament on the european neighbourhood policy. in the context of the current events in the southern mediterranean, redeveloping this policy could not be more important. in fact, over the past nine months the commission has undertaken a review of the policy. i want to take this opportunity to thank members for their input into the consultation, which took responses from partner countries, eu member states, academics and civil society groups. i have read both mário david’s report on the south and marek siwiec’s report on the east and find them both significant and useful. i am pleased that our thoughts are along the same lines. you will have noticed that the results of our previous discussions on neighbourhood policy are already reflected in the communication on a partnership for democracy and shared prosperity of 8 march. now we are preparing for the wider communication on the results of the review, which is due to be published in may. a key outcome of the review is a new emphasis on differentiation of the neighbourhood policy, according to the needs and wishes of each partner country. while the policy will continue to offer engagement to all partners, every neighbour is different and has different aspirations. some partner countries want to progress as far as they can towards the european union – indeed as far as accession – but others prefer to make the most of other benefits of the neighbourhood policy. so it will deliver more for more, in a specific and differentiated way, alongside stronger political steering of our relationship with our partners. nevertheless, as both mr david and mr siwiec recommend in their reports, our shared values of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights will be at the heart of the revised neighbourhood policy for all partner countries. they should find their expression in stronger joint commitments to the elements indispensable to democratisation. i am thinking in particular of free and fair elections, freedom of expression and association, judicial independence, the fight against corruption and security sector reform. as highlighted in both reports, the revised neighbourhood policy will also recognise and act on the importance of the civil society. non-governmental organisations have the expertise and experience to deliver democratic and market-oriented reforms from the bottom up based on shared values. a thriving civil society gets citizens involved and helps to hold governments to account so the european union will complement its relations with governments with much closer engagement with civil society. this is also important at a regional and sub-regional level where, for example, the eastern partnership civil society forum has been making good progress. the forthcoming communication will offer more detail on the approach towards the two sub-regions of our neighbourhood. it will spell out how we see the eastern partnership developing further in the wake of the summit under the polish presidency. in the south, the union for the mediterranean has the potential to make a real difference but, frankly, it has not yet done so, and must be revitalised. its promise lies in developing concrete economic projects with a focus on employment, innovations and growth. the union for the mediterranean secretariat is best placed to act as a catalyst and bring together states, international and financial institutions and private companies to work on such economic projects. i would like to mention briefly three other elements brought to light by the review, which will be key to the revised neighbourhood policy: first, the role of trade and economic integration to help advance stability and prosperity in partner countries. the most significant vehicle to achieve is the deep and comprehensive free trade area. a successful dfcta has a transformative power. regulatory reforms made by a partner country are encouraged through trade. next, the need for improved mobility between partner countries and the european union since there is no better way to promote european values than through sharing experience person to person. the neighbourhood policy will seek improvements to mobility without losing sight of security. finally, the desire expressed in the consultation by many partner countries for greater political engagement with the european union. closer and more substantial political dialogue across all areas of our relationship will help us resolve difficult issues in a spirit of mutual confidence. thank you very much for your attention. i very much look forward to the coming debate and i will take your views on board.
on behalf of the s&d group. i'm not going to let you do this. we have reached the final, or rather the semi-final, stage of the review of the eastern european union policy. it can be said that the neighbourhood policy was once designed as a 'comfort prize' for those who will not join the european union. how's it looking today? what are the countries covered by this policy? you can say that this is a record of successes, of different successes, because it is impossible to say in one word what moldova has achieved over the years, comparing it with ukraine and comparing it, for example, with the tragic situation in belarus. but it is possible to say that these countries have more european values, more good law, more concern for human rights, more efficient economy, and we have a part to play in this. this is the result of the eastern partnership. if we talk today about wanting to review this policy, the key thing is to say that we want to see that these countries will move in different ways, at different speeds, towards our values, towards what the european union offers them. if this is à la carte policy, then let these countries take the initiative and let us respond well to their initiatives. we want to focus our neighbourhood policy more on citizens, on the elites, on journalists, on young people. we want them to see what our lives are like, that it's worth organizing that life the way we organize it. we want to make it easier to travel to the european union, we want to make the visa system easier. let's also say that the report says, "yes, this policy requires money". but the money that the european union is going to spend on it should be better spent, it should go to the people who are concerned, it should sometimes bypass the states and the state administration, which is able to waste that money. and finally, let's talk about the dispute. well, there's a dispute in this room about whether we can't or won't say clearly what the wording is... (the president cut the speaker off)
the current debate is taking place at a time when we are adopting a new approach to neighbourhood policy. we would like to break with the old days of trading in the concept of stability, of using the concept of stability in place of human rights and democratic principles. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the holistic approach to neighbourhood policy. let us not only remember the last few months, but also remember the events that happened before, for example in belarus. we are stressing today the need to respect the gentleman's principle, which is that one third of the neighbourhood policy funds should be allocated to eastern europe. we're here for safety, not for the wealth we want to share. this is a matter of fundamental security and the future of the union's cooperation with those countries which may also be future members of the union.
madam president! the european neighbourhood policy, and within it the eastern partnership, is one of the key areas and challenges facing the european union. these are important policy frameworks for closer relations with partner countries with which we should seek economic and political integration. in the case of ukraine, this process should culminate in the prospect of full membership of the european union, of course after the copenhagen criteria have been met, for which a greater political commitment from the authorities in kiev is necessary. let's not forget about the europeans in belarus, a country close to us in terms of civilisation, but locked up by the lukashenka regime. let us do everything we can to show the belarusians that europe is remembering them and supporting their democratic efforts. the real expression of these efforts would be to reduce the costs of obtaining a schengen visa and to facilitate people-to-people contacts between belarus and the rest of europe, to support social and civic initiatives in belarus. by facilitating travel and contacts between the union and belarus, we can undermine the lukashenka regime much more effectively than dozens of statements or resolutions. finally, i would like to point out that in many countries covered by the neighbourhood policy there are still serious problems with respect for freedom of expression, especially in the media, freedom of association and freedom of assembly. we must , as a parliament in a free europe ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the eastern dimension of the european union's policy is one of the most important areas of its development within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. it covers the countries of ukraine, belarus, moldova, georgia, azerbaijan and armenia. the union has vital economic and financial interests in these countries, which should be borne in mind, but the main emphasis should be on energy issues. some of these countries may have alternative energy routes to russian pipelines such as sarmatya and nabucco. to deepen cooperation between these countries and the european union, it is worth liberalising the eu's trading area, which would increase turnover and bring these countries closer to the european union, which is already their largest economic partner. finally, of course, we should think about a free trade area, which would of course bind us in a special way. finally, we must not forget about visa facilitation, exchanges of persons, and the co-financing of exchanges between young people from the eastern partnership countries and young people from the eu.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we all want the european union's policy to be effective, and to be effective it must be coherent and consistent both in terms of the eastern neighbourhood policy and its southern dimension. as regards the eastern dimension, i would like to draw particular attention to the so-called frozen conflicts, the situation in moldova, in particular the transnistria region, the situation in nagorno-karabakh, and i would like to say a few words - particularly as the european parliament's rapporteur on georgia - on the situation in the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia, which have been separated from georgia. today, a coherent european union policy is needed in this area. a coherent policy of the union must mean a common and coherent, uniform policy of both the european institutions, including the high representative in particular and the other members of the european commission, and the member states. today we must speak with one voice to the russian leadership that they are not fulfilling their 2008 commitments and that, for example, the european union's observer mission should be given access to the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia as soon as possible.
to achieve the expected positive effect of the policy in question, money is needed. so the gentleman's agreement of dividing 1/3 to 2/3 must be respected. this is necessary for effective policy. second, we need a clear diagnosis of the situation. therefore, comparing belarus, which has a clean, clear and, one might say, clinical example of a regime, with ukraine, which is struggling with problems of democratization, cannot take place. thirdly, it offers the prospect of membership to those countries which aspire to it. a clear prospect of membership is part of a self-fulfilling prophecy, and if the public and the governments of these countries feel that full eu membership is an achievable goal, it will certainly be more likely.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to begin by congratulating the authors of both reports, and in particular the author of the report on the eastern dimension of the neighbourhood policy, mr siwca. it's not just a compliment. they stem from my sincere belief that we finally have reports which show that european neighbourhood policy should be based much more on the values that are most important to us: respect for human rights, freedom of the media, democratic governance. i repeat what i said here on monday: the lessons of north africa and asia minor show that the people there, especially the young, are not only demanding more bread, but also more freedom and respect for their civil and human rights. the same applies to our neighbours to the east, and in particular to the country which is the direct neighbour of the european union belarus. i would like to tell you about the scandalous events that took place this evening in grodno, belarus, where one of the journalists andrzej poczobut who is accused of defaming the president in articles written for the international press, in connection with his journalistic activities, has just been detained by the kgb to prevent him from speaking to us, meps, tomorrow during the meeting of the belarusian delegation. these are outrageous practices. the european neighbourhood policy should help us to prevent situations like the one that occurred with andrzej poczobut this afternoon.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the communication on partnerships, which adopted a quick and far-sighted approach. we are seeing a redesign of the neighbourhood policy and the commission is the guardian of the holistic approach. i find it fatal to oppose the southern neighbourhood and the eastern neighbourhood. we are redesigning, and while there is good news about what is happening in the south, the importance of this redesign and rethinking goes beyond the south. it also includes the east. we should move from government-related or oriented policy towards society-oriented policy, and from short-sighted economic interest policy towards human rights and democracy-oriented policy. we should become, in our policy, generous towards societies and much more demanding and severe towards governments. also, we should not mix up status quo with stability. we should move into a kind of transitional approach. building this new paradigm for a neighbourhood policy brings with it the necessity to change the eastern policy in the same direction. we should pay equal attention to both south and east. there should be symmetric financing, as there is a false dilemma in opposing both, and it should be smart financing. there is structural under-financing here. each year we are paying to the neighbourhood policy countries 20% of what we are paying to the rest of the world. i know how difficult it is to talk about financing today. but this policy has to be redesigned and that also requires additional financing.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in today's debate in the european parliament, we are once again addressing the eastern dimension of the european union's policy. we must not forget that its aim should be to deepen relations between the community and its eastern neighbours, especially ukraine, by promoting all kinds of civic, social and economic initiatives. the union's financial contribution for the period 2014-2020 is estimated at eur 100000000 and the total amount of the union's macro-financial assistance is estimated at eur 300000000. it is essential to ensure better implementation of the agreements on visa facilitation and the eu-ukraine free trade area. we should also extend the scholarship scheme to students from eastern european neighbourhood countries and encourage them to become more active in the social and political spheres.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would say to the honourable members that the questions and specific cases that they have brought to our attention today are indeed very serious and are a black mark hanging over the developments which have taken place over the recent weeks in north africa and the middle east. i have taken note of the issues they have raised in this debate and of the suggestions made. as i said, the european union has a number of instruments in place and will do everything to support greater participation of women in civil and political life, free from threats, intimidation and violence. i would also like to bring to members’ attention some positive recent developments, such as the creation of a human rights office in the gulf corporation council secretariat. we should welcome such steps. our support for international organisations, not least united nations women, and for civil society, will be instrumental in supporting change from within. this also shows why our policy of dialogue and engagement is so important and must continue, not least with our new interlocutors.
in writing. sexual violence is a particularly abhorrent means of waging war or a means of suppressing or humiliating the other party to the conflict. in the case of north africa and the middle east, these practices seem particularly cruel, because they reveal the scale of cynicism and depravity. the dominant religion in the region has a very restrictive view of sex. those who commit sexual violence break many rules and regulations. war and conflict often bring out the worst in such people. we will fight it and we will never stop condemning this barbarity.
president of the eib. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you for inviting me once again - it is becoming a real tradition - to take part in the discussion of your report on the activities of the european investment bank. i would like to thank in particular your rapporteur, mr cutaş, who had the good idea of not merely looking back but also giving directions for the future, and, if you will allow me, that is essentially what i would like to talk to you about. you say that our board of directors has set out three guidelines for the action of the european investment bank in the coming years. our action will be developed around three axes: the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and support for the union's external policy. in the face of the financial and then economic crisis that erupted in 2008, european states provided a short-term response. these were the various national plans to ensure, first, the rescue of the banks, and then, to stimulate the recovery of the economy. and these national plans, as you know, were supported by the european economic recovery plan, adopted by the european council in december 2008. the eib has played its part in this by increasing its lending from eur 48 billion in 2007 to eur 79 billion in 2009, and by directing this injection of financial resources into the real economy towards the sectors identified as priorities by the council, in particular support for small and medium-sized enterprises, as your rapporteur has just pointed out. but after this short-term response, which has averted the worst, it is now a question of giving a longer-term response. this is the europe 2020 strategy. and the critical element of this strategy is the increase in employment and productivity, which must be articulated around what is often called the knowledge triangle: training, research and innovation. and the eib stands ready to make a significant contribution to the implementation of this strategy. in 2010 alone, it funded over 4 billion in education projects and over 7 billion in rdi projects research, development and innovation. the eib intends to increase its financing in these areas and to this end it intends to continue to implement, with the european commission, joint financing instruments, such as the rsff risk sharing finance facility for research, as such instruments provide a leverage effect to the european budget. with the same budget, the european budget can support a much larger volume of investment and, at the same time, these joint instruments alleviate the capital constraint of the eib. this means that with the same capital, the eib can grant a larger volume of loans. i cited the rsff, the risk sharing finance facility for research. that's a good example. at the end of 2010, with a budget contribution of some 390 million, with an eib capital allocation of some 700 million, it was actually possible to grant loans for more than eur 6 billion, which financed more than eur 16 billion in research investments. you can see the dual leverage effect of this type of instrument, and it is therefore clear to us that the eib's contribution to the europe 2020 strategy will be all the more effective if it can be based on pragmatic cooperation with the commission and also with other financial institutions. the second is to combat climate change and its sometimes dramatic effects. this has become a priority for the european union and thus also for the eib. the fukushima nuclear accident and the challenges it has brought about further reinforce the need for massive investment in energy savings, renewable energy and new energy technologies. in 2010, eib lending for projects that directly contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions amounted to almost €20 billion, or almost 30% of our total lending. of these, loans for renewable energy projects amounted to 6.2 billion, mainly for wind and solar power projects. loans for energy efficiency improvement projects amounted to 2.3 billion in 2010. they will increase in the coming years, as there is a huge potential for energy savings, especially in public buildings and housing in many european cities and towns. investments to develop urban transport, and thus reduce the harmful effects of private transport, were financed by eib loans amounting to eur 7.9 billion in 2010. and so we're going to continue that effort. we will continue to support energy savings, energy efficiency, renewable energy and, in addition, we are at the forefront of developing a methodology - inevitably complex due to technical difficulties - to more accurately assess the carbon footprint of all the projects we fund. and this particular effort is a testament to our commitment to making the fight against climate change a major priority. finally, the third point: no power can claim to conduct a foreign policy without financial support. china has understood that. it is involved in financial interventions worldwide to support its foreign policy objectives. if the european union really wants to develop a foreign policy which has any influence in the world, it must also have a financial arm. if the european union wants to, the eib can be that arm. this is one of the conclusions of the camdessus report on the eib's external mandate. it remains to be seen whether the member states, which are also the eib's shareholders, will follow up on this recommendation and make a clear choice when preparing the financial perspective for 2014-2020. that, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is an overview of the eib's three-pronged approach for the years ahead.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, mr cutaş, for his very good report. i would also like to welcome mr maystadt to this plenary because it is very important that the commission also congratulate him and the eib for his continued forceful response to the effect of the global financial crisis. eib assistance was essential. the eib helped us to address the credit shortage in the market and this was crucial, not only for the eu member states and the candidate countries, but also for our partners around the world. the eib was able to significantly increase its lending activity and, at the same time, to target the increase to the key growth-enhancing areas. the commission shares the parliament’s view that support for the eu cohesion policy, as well as transition to low-carbon economies, are core targets for the eib. consequently, the commission joined forces with the eib group to support convergence regimes with the joint financial instruments which we know very well – jaspers, jeremie, and the new addition, elena – to fight climate change. moreover, we welcome the increase in lending volume to smes and we agree with your call for more qualitative measures to increase the value added and transparency of the eib group intervention in this domain. in this context, an assessment of the optimal division of labour between the eib and the eif seems to be necessary. the huge efforts undertaken by the eib bring into focus the importance of optimising the use of eib capital. it is crucial to strike the right balance between higher volumes and high-risk activities which consume more capital but add more value to the eib group intervention. i would like to say a couple of words on financial instruments. we believe that the use of innovative financial instruments, together with the key financial institutions such as the eib, should be extended. instruments using instant loans, equity and guarantees help maximise the effects of the eu budget by attracting additional funds from third parties. in addition, an increased use of joint financial instruments and risk sharing with the eu budget could have the effect of freeing capital and permitting a higher leverage of the eib own resources and enhancing its reach. at the end of the day, this means more projects in support of a europe 2020 strategy and better support for its goals and objectives. the europe 2020 project bond initiative, which is currently in public consultation, is a very good example. the eu 2020 strategy calls for large-scale cross-border investment to underpin the eu 2020 flagship actions and develop smart, upgraded and fully interconnected infrastructures. the project bond initiative would support the financing of specific projects in the area of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, and potentially also in other sectors that can help lay the foundations for sustainable future growth and unemployment. i am glad to see your support for this initiative in your report. in the context of the preparation of the commission’s proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, the commission is carrying out a strategic reflection and analysis to ensure an optimised use of the new instruments, in dialogue with the eib and other financial institutions, to benefit from their financial expertise and experience in the market. to conclude, i would like to make a few remarks on the eib external activities. regarding eib financing outside the eu, the commission supports the increase of the ceilings proposed by parliament under the mid-term review of the eib external mandate, in particular a eur 1 billion increase for the mediterranean region. we know how important that is today. this is essential in order for the eib to pursue its intervention at a sustained level and support the democratic transformation of our partner countries. in the same way, we also reiterate the importance for the eib to reuse reflows from previous investment in the mediterranean region in order to make risk capital investment in private sector smes in the region. moreover, we support a progressive reinforcement of the eib’s development capacity because these additional needs would require a gradual increase of staff resources specialised in development aspects. in line with the commission’s proposal following the mid-term review of the eib external mandate, the commission will set up a working group to study the possible development of the eu platform for cooperation and development. the objective is to optimise the functioning of mechanisms, blending grants and loans involving the commission, the eib and other multilateral and bilateral institutions. the establishment of such a platform would help create synergies and foster cooperation between the eib and other financial institutions. in this context, i would like to mention that the memorandum of understanding between the commission, the eib and the ebrd was signed early in march.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would also like to speak, like president maystadt, about the future, and would like to raise three points. first, growth and restructuring is what europe needs and that means investment and funding of investment. the legitimate question today is to ask where that funding can come from. the important element of the response to this question lies with the european investment bank and its family of institutions. i also think that it is important to remember that in the years to come we will have huge global competition for funding. we will have national budgets in a mood of further cuts. we will have also a banking sector with a lot of uncertainties when it resumes normal funding activities and, of course, we will have a european budget that will remain, as usual, too small to be efficient and to solve our problems. so the eib will be absolutely essential.
the rapporteur. - i am pleased to present to the house the report on the amendment of the directive on vaccines against bluetongue, a disease which is a major threat to cattle, sheep and goat farming in many eu countries. i am pleased to do so because three years ago, in this house, in the previous term, i had the honour of presenting a report on a new animal health strategy based on the principle of 'prevention rather than cure'. today's amendment to the directive on bluetongue vaccination is a practical implementation of this principle. we are improving the prevention of the disease, we are making the animals healthier, the cost of their treatment is lower and the whole vaccination process can be better organised. the change is due to the fact that the previous 2000 directive was adapted to the conditions of that time, and in particular to the vaccines that were then available on the market. these vaccines have been and continue to be used, but with certain restrictions due to the risk of transmission of the virus from vaccinated to unvaccinated animals. this requires various restrictions on the use of vaccines, e.g. restrictions on the use of vaccines in designated areas, restrictions on the movement of animals. this is quite burdensome for the breeders and therefore the effectiveness of these vaccinations is limited. science has made progress. we have a different generation of vaccines that are being tested and can be used without fear of transmitting the virus to unvaccinated animals. they can therefore be used without the restrictions that have been imposed. the use of these vaccines will therefore be beneficial to breeders, less burdensome and probably more effective. it will be much more widely applicable. the process is very fast. the committee on agriculture has carried out its work shortly after receiving the draft legislation from the european commission and is presenting it to parliament. the idea is to be able to mass-market the new vaccines this summer. that is why these amendments, and the amendments to the report i tabled, contain a timetable for the member states' legislation to be adapted to the requirements of this directive, so that vaccination can be carried out this year and does not have to wait until next season. i would like to mention the controversy that has arisen around this report and the amendment of the directive on the obligation to have correlation tables proposed by the commission. in my report we agree that it should be mandatory to include correlation tables which contain information on how the directive is transposed into national law and which specific provisions transpose the provisions of the directive into national law. this is seen by the administrations of some member states as a kind of bureaucratic requirement, but it is necessary to look at it differently. this requirement makes european law more transparent. it is easier for citizens to check for themselves whether and how a directive has been transposed into national law. i think this is a good practice, and as far as i know, this is the first directive, or one of the first directives, to be adopted which introduces this obligation, and i think it is right. this should become a regular practice in our legislation. i thank you again for the opportunity to present this report and i feel that we are doing a good thing for the welfare of farmers and for reducing animal suffering in the eu.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank the house for its strong support for this proposal and also for its recognition of the urgency of the matter and the very speedy procedures. several of you referred to the problem of correlation tables. i would just like to remind you that the conference of presidents injected fresh impetus into tackling this issue, and has accorded it greater importance, notably in recognition of the problem of the transposition of eu legislation into national law. i would like to ask whether it is really so difficult for the member states to notify the commission of the legal basis on which they transposed the eu regulation into their national legal order. is it really so difficult? i am sure that when they are considering how to transpose legislation they must do some preparation and decide how they intend to transpose it. i think we all recognise the fact – and we have had several debates on this issue – that the european union suffers when the transposition of eu law is uneven. in particular, on an issue as important as the one we are discussing today, incorrect transposition could have detrimental effects. at the same time, as i said in my opening remarks, i would emphasise that the commission is clearly against unnecessary hold-ups. we are fully aware of the urgency of this matter. therefore i hope that, through increased flexibility and intensive negotiations, we can find a solution to this problem. the commission will try to be as helpful as possible so that we can adopt this legislation before the beginning of the season for a potential bluetongue outbreak. concerning the commission’s readiness to implement this measure, i would like to assure mr schnellhardt and mr uggias that the commission has done its part. our implementing measures are almost complete. what we need is approval of this proposal by the legislator. once we have that, we can proceed very quickly. once again, i would like to thank our rapporteur and to thank the house for its strong support for this measure.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i thank all the members who took part in the debate and expressed their support for my report. i thank the co-rapporteurs, i thank all the members of the committee on agriculture for allowing us to proceed so efficiently and quickly with this report. it is not often that we accept such a positive document, which clearly aims to improve the present situation. as regards the correlation tables which were mentioned in the debate as a problem, i think it is difficult to sympathize with the member state administration or the governments. it will not be a big problem to draw up such a list and send it to the commission. the citizens will certainly have a greater problem in checking whether the law of their country is compatible with the law of the european union. he'll have to go out of his way to find it if there are no such plates, as there are now. it is often very difficult to distinguish between these two types of eu law. i think and i hope that this tool will be available to all those concerned, not just the commission, that it will be an open document that can be accessed when needed. it'll be a very useful document, too. i ask and i urge the council not to get involved in the debate on these correlation tables, and if they do, not on the basis of this case, so that these vaccinations can come into force as we all expect, which is already this season. we cannot allow delays, because then we would destroy the effect of our quick and efficient work. i would like to thank you all again for your cooperation in this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. according to the spanish farmers who petitioned the european parliament, moroccan tomatoes imported at too low a price are a threat to european food producers. these are the undercutting minimum prices which are set in the eu-morocco preferential import and export agreement at around eur 46 per 100 kg. according to eurostat, morocco exported more than 70 000 tonnes of tomatoes in december 2010, more than double the amount provided for in the agreement between the union and morocco. this has caused numerous losses to european producers, not to mention losses in customs revenue. olaf has already commented on this matter, stating in a 2007 report that irregularities may occur in the import of tomatoes from morocco, precisely because the tomatoes are priced below the entry price set by the union, which in effect avoids the payment of additional duties. however, i would like to join the other members of the committee on petitions in asking whether the commission envisages revising such rules and possibly recovering unpaid duties.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? actually, mr. de castro said what i wanted to say. i only join in the call for the council not to obstruct the swift implementation of the new directive. the correlation tables are a starting point and a precedent which, in my view, creates good practice for the future, helping to make it easier to monitor the compatibility of european law with national law.
madam president! i would like to ask that a small correction be made to the amendment i have tabled. the amendment has already been tabled in its entirety at the end of the vote. the general idea is not to refer only to the events in libya, not to give the impression that this amendment, our work, is only of a particular nature, but to refer to everything that is happening in north africa and the middle east and to emphasize the importance of keeping the two-thirds of the funds (the established division of 2⁄3 to 1⁄3) as a gesture of good will and an expression of our concern for the southern dimension.
madam president! i voted to pass the resolution. the resolution was also intended to be a voice of solidarity with the victims of the natural disaster and the nuclear accident that followed, as well as gratitude and appreciation for all those who risk their lives to prevent an even greater disaster. i too am full of admiration for the solidarity, courage, determination with which the people of japan are responding to this disaster. i agree with the conclusion that the european union must comprehensively assess its approach to nuclear safety, but we cannot force member states to abandon their own energy security, which is why i am glad that we have rejected the unrealistic and dangerous provisions in our resolution.
recently, we've seen mass demonstrations in countries like syria, bahrain and yemen. protesters are demanding the democratization of public life, the removal of dictatorial leaders, and, especially in syria, the lifting of the state of emergency. unfortunately, the authorities in these countries have used brutal force against protesters, killing many. the threat to the entire region is particularly worrying. violence against one's own citizens is a violation of all rights. the use of live ammunition is unacceptable and deserves a strong condemnation. i call on the governments of these countries to stop the repression in the name of respect for human rights, including the right to peaceful protest and freedom of expression. i call on the european institutions and the relevant international organisations to launch diplomatic efforts to protect the protesters. i hope that by adopting today's resolution we will also contribute to the defence of fundamental human rights in these countries.
the brutal power struggle between the current and the newly elected president of côte d'ivoire, which has been going on for more than four months, is a contradiction of all the rules of the modern world. the bloody fighting has led to the deaths of several hundred people. more than a million people have been forced to flee their homes, and many refugees continue to seek refuge in neighbouring countries. everything must be done to ensure that those responsible for the crime are held accountable. the question that must be clarified is whether genocide and crimes against humanity have occurred. it is also of the utmost importance to ensure the safety and order of the population by putting an end to all forms of violence. acts of intimidation against the local population and foreign observers must not take place. the results of democratic elections must be fully respected. therefore, any action by the former president that is contrary to the will of the people must be condemned. the usurpation of power, the incitement of violence and the violation of human rights require the judgment of the competent international bodies.
the european neighbourhood policy in its eastern dimension is a strategic element of the european union's international relations. this is the direction that further enlargement will take. it is therefore necessary to increase financial resources to develop the democratic structures of these countries. support for initiatives such as bielsat is crucial for the independence of the media in belarus, while at the same time withdrawing aid to the state-controlled media. i call for active support for local democratic authorities in these countries through partnership programmes. the association agreements remain an important tool for stimulating reforms, all the more so the greater the financial and technical support they provide. the extension of the intellectual base through scholarship programmes also requires additional resources. i call for increased spending on human rights and the development of civil societies. deepening economic integration will help to influence social and political change, and is a significant investment in the future. on this basis, i support the resolution.
in writing. − due to technological developments, vaccines against bluetongue are more advanced than at the time of the commission's directive. i therefore support the rapporteur's view that the rules on vaccines should be updated to make it easier for farmers to produce healthy animals. flexibility and relaxation of rules will allow for more efficient breeding and, above all, better protection of animals against unwanted and dangerous diseases. i fully support this initiative also because of its nature, because in order to make the legal system work better, it must be simplified and made more flexible as much as possible. this is the objective pursued by the report.
in writing. - i did not support the resolution because, firstly, apart from the prohibitions, restrictions and generally expressed dislike of nuclear technologies, it does not bring anything positive. secondly, it does not indicate any way out of a completely new situation for the whole of energy policy. for example, points 19, 20 and 21 could provide new ideas and directions for thinking comprehensively about energy efficiency, especially energy efficiency from primary sources, where the greatest reserves lie, especially with regard to fossil fuels. thirdly, the radical suggestions contained in it call for a national referendum to be held in my country at the request of the left. perhaps such a referendum should be held at union level. fourthly, my country has been forced by the faulty eu regulations to stop the necessary investment in coal-fired power stations, and now the same lobby group is saying that we should stop investing in nuclear technology. so what's left? the resolution only refers to renewable energy. in my country, the full potential of these sources covers 13 - 20% of the necessary needs. sweden may be different, because it has large hydroelectric reserves, but poland is not. the fukushima case calls for a review of the entire existing energy policy of the european union.
in writing. - in april, a joint resolution was voted on the conclusions to be drawn for european nuclear safety following the accident at the nuclear power plant in japan. i voted against this resolution because, apart from the prohibitions and moratoriums on the development of nuclear energy and the suggestion of a gradual withdrawal from nuclear energy (which is unrealistic), it does not bring anything positive, it does not offer any solutions for the future of energy in general. the situation following the fukushima disaster has completely changed the philosophy of approach to the future of energy in europe and poland. in our country, the 95% coal-based energy sector has already suffered as a result of the adoption of the climate and energy package. the investments undertaken to build two nuclear power plants have also been stopped. the resolution only emphasises the importance of renewable energy, which in poland represents only 13% of the total, with a maximum of 20% of the total. moreover, the referendum on nuclear energy, which the left is suggesting, will not take place in poland until then, so the conclusions of this resolution are premature. i welcome the fact that the majority of members voted against the resolution.
in writing. − there are currently 48 least developed countries (ldcs), or one in five countries in the world. the category of ncds was created by the un general assembly in the early 1970s, over 40 years ago. since then, the number of nrm countries has doubled, with only three (botswana, maldives and cape verde) having managed to leave the group. this shows that poverty is spreading and that the measures taken so far have been ineffective. the economic crisis has further worsened the critical situation. its effects have affected the nrp to a large extent and have further exacerbated the problems there. these are mainly due to debt, high food and fuel prices and climate change. i therefore am convinced and aware of its importance, and have therefore amended the resolution on the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries. a thorough and comprehensive analysis and diagnosis of the situation of the nis is needed, as well as concrete proposals for solutions aimed at improving the living conditions of the inhabitants of these countries in the short term and at leaving the group in the long term. as a member of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, i would like to draw particular attention to the lack of control mechanisms for the actions undertaken. we have the political will and the desire to help, but unfortunately we do not monitor our efforts enough, and this results in little effectiveness.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy has brought tangible benefits to all parties since its inception. it creates a framework of cooperation that is strategically important for supporting political, social and economic reforms in our closest partners. the eastern partnership focuses on the development of democracy, good governance and stability, economic integration and convergence with eu policies. since the establishment of the epc, progress has been made in many partner countries in respect for human rights, the democratisation of public life and economic reforms. only belarus participates to a limited extent in cooperation with the eu and its continued participation in the epc should be conditional on its willingness to respect the basic principles of democracy and freedom. attention should be paid to the fight against corruption and to the electoral system and the conduct of elections in a manner consistent with international law. support should be given to the euronest parliamentary assembly, emphasising its role in strengthening democracy and developing cooperation with the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy addresses the challenges that have emerged in recent months in our neighbourhood, both in its eastern and southern dimensions. these events have exposed the inadequacy of the eu's engagement with the neighbourhood to date. the ep's proposed change of paradigm from 'stability first' to 'democratization and human rights first' in eu policy is necessary. no more pretending that the political status quo, i.e. the maintenance of authoritarian regimes, is better for europe and its security. it's time to show solidarity with our neighbors. despite their differences, most of the countries in the region have one thing in common: limited or no freedom and a lack of success in modernizing. the allocation of additional, ambitious funds to build a stable eu neighbourhood seems inevitable. the foundations of the epc should therefore be continued in the form of the principle of conditionality, cooperation both bilateral and multilateral, and extended to include the pursuit of institutional integration, visa liberalisation, the opening up of the european market and the support of civil society. it is also worth recalling the position of poland, an advocate of further enlargements of the union, which two years ago called on the member states, in partnership with sweden, to strengthen the eastern dimension of the epc in the form of an eastern partnership initiative. in the face of current events, poland's role is taking on symbolic importance. poland, with its historical experience of political and economic system transformation, can be a good guide and model for both the eu's eastern and southern neighbours in current politics.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy southern dimension. as a member of the committee on women's rights, i would like to draw particular attention to the importance of gender equality policy as an integral element of respect for human rights, which is also a fundamental principle of the european union. women's rights must be a priority in talks with countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy (enp). according to the resolution, women's rights should be included in the codification revisions (constitutional, criminal, family and all civil law codes) and taken into account in the human rights dialogue with the partner countries covered by the epc. the focus should also be on the social integration of women. we need programmes to promote women's education, to promote their employment and to increase their participation in public life. the effects of gender equality actions in the eps countries must be continuously monitored and controlled, and failures to do so must be strongly condemned and even punished. i am in favour of not strengthening the european union's relations with those third countries which do not sufficiently integrate into their political strategies issues and institutions related to civil society organisations (in particular human rights and women's organisations).
in writing. - i strongly supported the resolution on combating sexual violence in conflicts in north africa and the middle east. massive sexual violence against women is a constant feature of armed conflicts in north africa and the middle east. the united nations children's fund (unicef) cites kenya, a relatively stable country, as an example, where the pre-election violence has doubled the number of sexual violence victims in just a few days. sexual violence is becoming an epidemic. it's a tactic of war. the european union cannot remain indifferent to this matter. it is therefore essential to mainstream gender issues in the european neighbourhood policy and to put it at the heart of efforts to develop an effective and structured approach to gender equality in the countries covered by the policy. human rights, of which equality between women and men is an integral part, should be an essential element in the democratic processes of third countries. it is shocking that despite the prevalence of sexual violence in africa, governments do not make it a priority to combat it, for example in south africa. the union should focus its action on women in particular. the resolution stresses the importance of strengthening the social integration of women, promoting their employment, combating illiteracy among women and traditional harmful practices. the education of women and girls must include awareness of their rights.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? the country i come from has a long history of empowering refugees. between 1939 and 1990, a total of 15 polish prime ministers and 6 presidents ruled in political exile. the poles were relentless in their quest for democracy, and finally the red of solidarity could be combined with the white of the ballot paper to give birth to a new, democratic state in 1989. today, the federal democratic republic of nepal also has a chance to make a new beginning with the constitution that will come into force on may 28. it would be a shame if nepal spoils this holiday and continues to restrict the rights of the tibetan minority, only to get a red card from the international community as a result. i consider the denial of the right of tibetans from nepal to participate in the recent election of a refugee prime minister to be an unacceptable violation of basic civil rights. the european union should use all diplomatic and financial means to neutralise the pressure exerted by china on nepal and, in the long term, to ensure the right of tibetans to vote, to associate and to demonstrate. just as in poland the activities of 21 representatives of the authorities in exile were not challenged, so the successors of the dalai lama - i am convinced - will not stop their activities. nepal and china should remember that.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, as you know, some 20 000 tibetans live in nepal, most of them from the old days. they have enjoyed freedom of economic activity, the right to reside in nepal and, until recently, also some political space to debate the future of tibet amongst themselves. the recent elections on 20 march were an important event for the community outside tibet and represent a significant step forward in a long reform process envisaged by the dalai lama. against this background, we note with concern that the nepalese authorities are tightening their grip on the political activities of tibetans in nepal. on 20 march, more than 10 000 of them were effectively stopped from voting by the authorities. this is not the first time this has happened. during an earlier round of voting in nepal on 3 october last year, the polls were subject to a crack-down by the nepalese authorities, which seized ballot boxes and closed the tibetan community’s voting sites. the european union, through its delegation in kathmandu and the embassies of the eu member states, has been monitoring these developments in close contact with the tibetan community and the government. the eu takes the view that tibetan refugees should be allowed to exercise their right to freedom of association in accordance with international human rights standards. this should be done in a way which permits the smooth implementation of these rights. access to nepal’s territory should be maintained, and the gentlemen’s agreement between the government of nepal and the un high commissioner for refugees should be honoured. new tibetan arrivals apprehended by the nepalese authorities en route to kathmandu should be transferred to the unhcr’s care promptly and without hindrance. pre-1990 tibetans who are recognised as refugees by the nepalese government should be provided with adequate nepalese registration. i would like to ensure this house that the eu will continue to raise this issue with the authorities and continue its monitoring and reporting on future developments.
in writing. the whole world is well aware of the complex situation of the tibetan people, who have been demanding for decades not so much independence as at least the respect of the basic rights of autonomy by the chinese government. a nation with such a rich and unique culture is under constant threat from a powerful neighbor. now that the dalai lama has relinquished political leadership to a new generation of democratic leaders, tibetans have a chance to strengthen their democratic traditions, even as the tibetan government is still forced to operate in exile. however, thousands of tibetans in nepal have been denied this right. the pressure from china seems to be very effective, and what has been peaceful demonstrations in defense of freedom of speech and fundamental rights may turn into a difficult situation to control, which will certainly have an international impact. we can imagine how effectively the chinese government will want to deal with those who "disturb the peace" in tibet. recent events should remind the world that the rights of the tibetan people are constantly violated and the issue of tibet is not closed, because the tibetan people will certainly continue to demand respect for their independence and will do so more and more loudly.
on behalf of the ppe group. not everyone in zimbabwe will be happy about today's debate, as in a few days, april 18, zimbabwe's liberation day will be celebrated. those who do bad things in this country will have a spoiled ceremony. power-sharing agreements are often problematic. this is because they are not usually the result of democratic decisions by citizens, but of compromises forced by the situation. this was the case in zimbabwe. but power-sharing agreements can be accepted and can have a positive impact on society if certain conditions are met. one of them is to improve the human rights situation. that's why we're human rights in this country. for example, we may doubt that restrictive measures are a necessary and effective tool, but we cannot allow people who do not want to sign a petition calling for the abolition of these measures to be beaten and harassed. that's why we defend human rights defenders.
since our last debate on zimbabwe last october, the situation in that southern african country has not changed. unemployment is 90 percent, life expectancy is 44 years, and citizens lack access to basic health care. it is clear to the naked eye that the political agreement reached two years ago by president mugabe and prime minister tsvangirai has not lived up to their expectations and that a new, fully democratic solution is needed. the internal situation in zimbabwe has not changed in the last six months, but the external situation has. today we are discussing this country in the context of the spring of nations in africa, and although harare is 6,000 km from tunisia, the latest case of côte d'ivoire shows that sometimes democracy knows no boundaries in time and space. the european parliament therefore calls on the zimbabwean government to take account of the current international situation and to make a strong reorientation of its domestic policy. first of all, to stop the repression of the political opposition, to release its representatives and to allow them to participate in the elections. six months ago, i was talking about how a poor country like zimbabwe can't afford to look for alternative problems. today, i believe that the african people's spring is an additional burden on president mugabe's political debt.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 7 april 2011.
i wanted to make a few remarks to you at the beginning of our proceedings. today is europe day. i spent most of the day in florence, where, as you know, the european university is located and where the european festival is also held. there was also a state of the union conference, and i met with students from the european university. we are celebrating the 61st anniversary of robert schuman's landmark declaration, which paved the way for the european union, and we have already done a lot together. robert schuman would be proud of what we've done. the founding fathers knew that crises were meant to be overcome and to build on them a solid foundation for a common future, which is why today, may 9th, remembering the past, we work on the present and look to the future with hope. second piece of information. the european union is now a full-fledged actor on the international stage. this was confirmed on 3 may by the united nations general assembly, which overwhelmingly accepted the european union's participation in the work of the united nations. the representatives of the union will have the opportunity to appear before the general assembly and to submit proposals for amendments agreed by the member states of the union. this is a joint achievement of the member states, the commission and the council, but also of the european parliament. our actions and our voices must remain united. this is particularly important, this community of action, because we are faced with the need to take further action, both in north africa, where tensions are again rising, as well as in syria and bahrain. message number three: on 17 may, we will celebrate the seventh international day against homophobia in the european union. the union is opposed to discrimination in all areas, both within and outside europe. homophobia is no exception. sadly, people are still being persecuted, tortured, and even killed. we have included the obligation to protect those who are discriminated against in our most important legal acts - the charter and the charter of fundamental rights. we will honor that commitment. finally, the european parliament strongly condemns the execution of one of the men sentenced to death by a military court in the gaza strip for collaborating with israel. the european union has always been opposed to the death penalty. the return to the practice of execution undermines efforts towards a lasting palestinian reconciliation.
- i have the cleaning notices now. i have received two requests from mr luigi de magistris for immunity and privileges in two proceedings pending before the courts of cosenza and milan respectively. i have received a request from mr viktor uspaskich for the exercise of immunity and privileges in the proceedings before the court in vilnius. i have received a request from mr. cornelius vadim tudor for immunity and privileges. in accordance with rule 6 (3), these requests are to be sent to the legal affairs committee responsible for the case.
as i said, it was a request to defend his immunity. it will be decided by our committee as usual, pursuant to rule 6(3).
thank you for your attention. indeed, if such an event took place, we take the position you said we would. thank you for pointing this out.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 may 2011. the following changes are proposed: [wednesday]: there is a proposal that will be presented by co-chairman speroni. with regard to the debate on foreign, security and defence policy, the europe of freedom and democracy group requested that the statement by the high representative/vice-president on the situation in syria and in camp ashraf also include the coptic christian community in egypt. this is a motion to adjourn wednesday, to have a 9:00 a.m. discussion with mrs. ashton present. mr. co-chairman, mr. speroni, will you please present this motion?
we must now finish the discussion we have begun on the item which concerns wednesday.
that's not an agenda item.
mr. gollnisch, i'm not going to let you down. we are following rule 7 (8) of our rules of procedure and it clearly states how to proceed in such cases. any comments you make on the agenda must be submitted at least one hour before the debate which we are about to begin. so i repeat, this is rule 7 (8) of our rules of procedure.
mr cohn-bendit, thank you for your remarks. i will check it. i have no other information right now but i can check it for you. a special gesture!
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the common fisheries policy, based on principles that protect the environment above all, must maintain the management and development of european fisheries at a sustainable level. from an economic point of view, fisheries are extremely important, but it should be stressed that they also represent a cultural value passed on from generation to generation. the preservation of this value should therefore become the objective of the common fisheries policy. in economic terms, this is a necessary condition for maintaining economic equilibrium at a satisfactory level. in view of the drastic increase in oil prices in europe, which is contributing to the collapse of the industry, the common fisheries policy should have a mechanism to protect fishermen against uncontrolled price increases in such situations. the european union cannot afford to see another sector of the european maritime economy, after shipbuilding and shipping, migrate to the far east. it should be noted that iceland does not want to join the european union because of its fears about the cap. the reform of the cfp should therefore be stepped up considerably in order to safeguard the environment and ensure adequate protection for fishermen. the question of the need for regionalisation in the fisheries sector and for a balanced but more significant role for national governments in the cfp is once again raised. it should be stressed once again that the crisis and economic instability have led to the closure of the cap, leaving fishermen to their own devices.
we're taking up a subject we've been working on since 2008. the european parliament was already expressing its solidarity with fishermen and calling on the commission to come up with concrete proposals to alleviate the situation in the areas most dependent on fishing. statistics clearly show that since 2003, the cost of fishing in the european union has more than tripled, and the sharp increase in fuel prices has meant that fishermen now have to invest 40% more to get fresh fish to the customer as quickly as possible. the phenomenon of the sharp rise in oil prices on world markets in recent months is undoubtedly the most important cause of the sharp deterioration of the situation. the increase in oil prices has a direct impact on the income of fishermen, who operate diesel-powered boats. it's a vicious cycle. in an attempt to compensate for the increase in fuel prices, fishermen increase their catch by going out to fish further, and their boats use more fuel. there is therefore an urgent need for the european commission to take further steps and raise the de minimis ceiling, as proposed by my political group, from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per firm for a period of 3 years. this is a sensible proposal which, in the present situation, would provide the sector, which is in financial difficulties, with support and the conditions for social and economic development.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is therefore right to have rushed in with humanitarian aid. the future of pakistan is crucial for the world and europe, it is an important country in the context of the fight against terrorism, and it is also a country that is a source of significant emigration to the european union. unfortunately, the european union has not yet presented any policy concept for pakistan. the proposal for union trade preferences does not pursue any objective. the commission was unable to substantiate the merits of its use, and in no way did it do so during the foreign trade committee meeting. this proposal is not good for the flood, nor does it have a significant impact on the development of this country. the european union has two important interests in its relations with pakistan: firstly, the fight against terrorism; secondly, the economic development of the country, which, as everywhere, should be based on the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if pakistan wants to deepen its cooperation with the european union, it should show that it is genuinely cooperating in the fight against terrorism and promoting the rule of law. then a broad aid programme makes sense; a broad one, not limited to one or two sectors of the economy. the proposal put forward - i repeat - does not solve anything, and i therefore think it should be rejected. i call on mrs. ashton to come forward with a thoughtful, conditional concept for cooperation with pakistan.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to apologise for not being present at the beginning of the debate, but i was only just arriving from brussels by plane and you were – how shall i put it? – in advance of the schedule, which is very laudable, but which resulted in my being a little bit late. i have taken notice of all the speeches that have been made on this report. i would simply like to stress a couple of points. first, we are not discussing an fta. it seems to me that a lot of speeches start from the assumption that this is a kind of fta with all the elements that go with it. for example, the problem of social conditionality, of sustainability as we call it, should not be considered here because this is very clearly a measure that is limited in time. secondly, we are not discussing the gsp either. we will do that in the near future and then there will be the discussion as to which countries can be included and which not. no, this is a proposal that the european commission has made with respect to the massive flooding in pakistan, time-bound for two years, with the possibility of its being continued for another year. let me also say that the amendment to limit it to one year, honestly speaking, to my mind does not make much sense: it would be better for you simply to vote against it. why have we not yet come to a conclusion, and why is this argument being used now, when about a year has already elapsed since the flooding took place? it is simply because we have just introduced this request for a waiver with the wto, but within the wto we face serious problems with the neighbours of pakistan. i do not think i have to name them. we tried to find a solution. i think we were moving in the right direction and we will have to see in the coming weeks what the impact may possibly be of what has recently been happening in pakistan. but there we are in the hands of the wto as to whether or not we get a waiver, and this waiver can only be obtained by unanimity, so we cannot force this within the wto. we can only try to do our best to get it through. i would also like to say that i am not talking, as one of the previous speakers has done, about crocodile tears and hypocrisy and so on. that is not up to me to say, but let us say in a very neutral way that what has been said tonight is not necessarily consistent with what has been said in the past. it is not because time has elapsed and that we have not yet got a waiver that the argument as such has changed. since the beginning there has been a discussion as to whether or not this was directly in favour of the people struck by the flooding. it is partially, yes. since the beginning it has been said that there should also be humanitarian aid. there has been humanitarian aid up to eur 480 million so the arguments have not changed and i really do not see the merit in us now, all of a sudden, switching to another direction. we have taken notice of the problems that can arise with the european textile industry, and with the ethanol industry. there is a safeguard clause proposed that is, i think, sufficient to counter possible problems that might arise, so this is fairly clear and you are either in favour of it or against it. the commission is in favour of it and i think that, both from the point of view of the economic development of pakistan and from the point of view of the security issues that are certainly linked with pakistan, it would be a major mistake on the part of the european parliament not to take up this responsibility and vote this down.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 may 2011. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
, in writing. issues related to pakistan are not without controversy, even with regard to providing aid to pakistan after a natural disaster. in the case of exceptional autonomous trade preferences for pakistan, it is important to introduce a safeguard clause in case of trade disruption resulting from the elimination of tariffs. we should also take into account our trade interests and look after them in the long term by setting the best possible duration and conditions for pakistan. the floods that devastated pakistan in the summer of 2010 had a very negative impact on the country's economy. the eu wants to help pakistan by contributing to its economic reconstruction. given that pakistan, because of its geostrategic location, has a very important role to play for the security of the eu, we should do everything we can to stabilise the situation in the country. this is how we prevent the radicalization of pakistan's mood. a more stable economy always goes hand in hand with a more democratic society and the opposite of anti-democratic radical social movements. our decision will send a clear signal to pakistan that we want to help and we want pakistan to become a stable and prosperous country, which will prevent radicalisation of attitudes on its territory. i believe that pakistan, as our ally, could also help to resolve the stalemate in afghanistan.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that in a situation where there is a problem of deepening trade liberalisation within the world trade organisation, the european union is entering into major free trade agreements with important partners in the world, such as india. india is a country with which we have a lot in common, the largest democracy in the world, a country that stabilizes the international situation, a country that is our ally in the fight against international terrorism. trade relations play a huge role today. putting them in the right place will lead to economic growth in india, to development in india and to greater stability in the world. it's in our interest. it is good that today we also expect the commission to take up a very important subject concerning foreign investment, that it will include the promotion and protection of foreign investment. there is already a european parliament document on this subject, as regards what parliament expects from future agreements on the mutual protection of foreign investments. tomorrow we will also vote on a major regulation which will allow the commission to take further action. it is very important that this sector develops to the benefit of european and indian investors.
at this point, unlike my colleagues, i think the deal will be very beneficial for both india and the european union. the world is changing. some powers are weakening, others, like india, are growing stronger. that is why we in the european union need such a partner, a democratic partner, because we also have different relationships with non-democratic partners. the agreement that is being negotiated at the moment concerns the exchange of goods, services, investment, but it will also include sensitive social and environmental issues. i am very pleased that the commissioner has said that there is no risk of harm to patients in the case of generic medicines. and we've heard many times from people in india who have aids, how important it is for them to have access to affordable medicines, even in other developing countries. digital services and personal data are also important for citizens in europe. i am convinced that india can meet the european data protection standards here, although the eu is changing them now and will probably change them as technology develops. however, after the recent events at sony, europeans need to be reassured that their data is safe when it is processed abroad. i'm sure this agreement will lead to a raising of various environmental labor standards, but we have to be careful here. it seems to me, especially looking at our debate, that we all have different expectations of india and we want to put those expectations into this free trade agreement. but this is a free trade agreement, and it can't be all of our expectations, all of what we want this country to be. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the free trade agreement with india is a key issue for europe at this time. even in the face of current economic problems, this agreement will give the union greater access to one of the fastest growing economies in the world. however, there are still a number of problems that need to be addressed. i think that the issues of agriculture and the movement of people need to be worked out. in addition, there is a lack of due progress in the areas of government procurement and services, the rules for the protection of intellectual property, including geographical indications, and the conditions for sustainable development, in particular the respect of standards in the production process in the context of creating a level playing field. i consider it necessary to carry out an assessment of the specificities of the individual sectors in order to indicate the possible negative impact of the free trade agreement on sensitive sectors of the union economy.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for the very rich debate on the fta negotiations with india. it is of course very difficult to go into all the questions in a detailed manner, but let me just focus on some questions that have been repeatedly put. on public procurement it is obvious that the public procurement chapter will focus on federal level, not on provincial level. by the way, this is the first time ever that they have been ready to negotiate on public procurement as such, but i also want to indicate the limitations of this. what is very important is that our negotiations also cover to the maximum extent possible india’s central level public sector undertakings where the bulk of procurement is done. niccolò rinaldi gave the example of trains, which is obviously one of the major sectors, given the difficult position of india with regard to infrastructure. another question that has been repeatedly touched upon is child labour. i think it is fair to make a distinction between child labour in manufacturing and child labour in agriculture. obviously there are still quite a lot of youngsters working in agriculture. whether they combine it or not with schooling is not always very clear, but i think the majority of them do so. it may also be the case that the number of children working in manufacturing goods that will be exported to europe is rather limited so i think, as mr newton dunn rightly pointed out, we should clearly distinguish between the two. let me also say that child labour is a very complex matter and it has always been a very complex matter in our own countries. i remember very well that when i was young, which is of course some time ago but nevertheless not ages, a lot of children were still working specifically in agriculture, so this is not something that completely belongs to the dark ages in europe either. m. désir a soulevé la question de l'exigence de l'europe d'inclure l'exclusivité des données dans nos négociations. plusieurs autres membres ont parlé notamment de ce point concernant les médecins dans les pays en voie de développement. je voudrais quand même être très clair, et je l'ai déjà répété à plusieurs occasions, dans le cadre de conférences et aussi directement avec les ong concernées: on ne demande pas l'exclusivité des données, on ne le demande tout simplement pas. ce que nous disons – et cela me semble être quand même raisonnable –, c'est que si jamais l'inde décide par elle–même d'appliquer l'exclusivité des données, cela s'appliquera aussi à nous. il y a ce qu'on appelle dans le jargon le national treatment, et je pense que c'est la bonne approche. par conséquent, je pense que je serais plutôt critiqué si j'acceptais d'appliquer des mesures de protection pour l'industrie pharmaceutique en inde qui ne s'appliqueraient pas à notre industrie. c'est de cela qu'il s'agit et de rien de plus. je voudrais vraiment être très clair là–dessus. d'autres questions ont été soulevées, madame la présidente, notamment en ce qui concerne les tarifs, question posée entre autres par m. caspary. il y aura naturellement une différence de délai pour, disons, la trajectoire vers zéro pour l'inde et pour l'europe, ce qui est compréhensible en raison de leur degré de développement différent. reste la question de savoir s'il y aura des secteurs où le zéro ne sera pas atteint. nous insistons toujours sur la nécessité d'y parvenir dans chaque secteur. mais je voudrais quand même, monsieur caspary, attirer votre attention sur la chose suivante: qu'est–ce qui sera le plus favorable pour notre industrie? la trajectoire vers zéro sur le très long terme ou plutôt une diminution assez drastique déjà dans les premières années? je pense qu'il faudra en fait trouver un point d'équilibre entre les deux et voir où cela nous mène. mais je voudrais quand même attirer votre attention sur les deux objectifs, à savoir d'arriver, disons dans 20 ans, à zéro et d'obtenir, dans l'intervalle, un abaissement très modéré. ce qui est vraiment intéressant pour notre industrie ne me semble pas être forcément la même solution. donc, on verra et on trouvera, ensemble, j'en suis convaincu, la meilleure solution dans cette discussion. concerning the gis, the high level of protection is an important objective in this negotiation and it has taken quite some time and effort with india to come to a common approach. one should also consider that india has never protected gis through a bilateral agreement so this is the first time that they are discussing this with a partner. we will continue to pursue this issue vigorously with the overall objective of achieving a high level of protection for our gis. i think that i have covered most of the other issues. i am certainly willing to continue the discussion on this agreement with parliament and the committee on international trade, the more so now that we are reaching the end game in this discussion. i am not going to pronounce on the exact time frame for coming to a final agreement. in any case this cannot be long now because we are now dealing with the most sensitive topics – cars, wine and spirits, public procurement and gis. we have to come to a conclusion, so we are really in what i would call the end game of these negotiations. we are in the last stretch to the finish, but the road will still be rather bumpy.
, in writing. india's economy is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. already today, most of india's foreign investment is located in the european union, and the tata group itself is the leader in industrial employment in the uk. given the pace of development of the country, it is recognised that the trade agreement between india and the union will be one of the most significant and demanding agreements concluded to date. the agreement will undoubtedly contribute to increasing the level of investment and exports and imports of both parties to the agreement. it will allow for a freer exchange of goods, and it will contribute to the growth of prosperity in india as well as in the countries of the community. the agreement will have an impact on the intensification of world trade, particularly in services. despite the advantages of signing the agreement, it is important to bear in mind the points on which the two parties to the agreement have different positions. the union shall not accept the movement of goods which have been produced in such a way as to damage the environment or which involve the use of child labour. the agreement we are seeking should guarantee decent jobs, diverse, growing economies and cultural diversity. the implementation of an effective decision-making system to facilitate cooperation and the training of people and organisations that help developing regions are key. however, a transparent and public debate is necessary to achieve the intended objectives.
the author. − in recent months, the japanese side has increased its interest in opening possible negotiations on a free trade agreement with the european union. the european parliament considers that non-tariff barriers should be the main issue, as has been repeatedly emphasised in the trade policy committee. the problem is not the tariffs but the many restrictive regulations and the difficulties in accessing the japanese market for eu companies. i am positive about the deepening of economic cooperation between the european union and japan, but i believe that the priority should be to eliminate the non-tariff barriers that restrict the access of eu goods to the japanese market. in this context, the article 30 provision adopted in the march european council conclusions indicates the line of action to be taken by the european union at the eu-japan summit on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement. the opening of these negotiations is rightly conditional on japan's willingness to address, inter alia, non-tariff barriers and restrictions on public procurement. this is therefore worth bearing in mind, especially as japan is lobbying for fear of losing competitiveness on the union market due to the expected entry into force of the union-korea free trade agreement.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should just like to touch upon two points. first, the relationship between bilateral and multilateral agreements. some members have advanced the idea that we should concentrate on the multilateral agreements rather than the bilateral ones. we do! as you know, the multilateral negotiations for the doha round are in dire straits, and we are the only big trading bloc that has been making proposals recently to try to bridge the differences between the developed and the emerging economies with respect to industrial sectors. but while we are really concentrating on the multilateral aspects of trade, on the other hand we should not neglect all our bilateral relations with important trading partners. secondly, with respect to japan, as many among you have been saying, it is really a ‘chicken and egg’ situation. do you start the negotiations and then hope that in the course of the negotiations you can resolve the non-tariff barriers that have been in place for many years, or do you rather try to do away with the majority of the non-tariff barriers as a precondition for negotiations on the free trade agreement? i think that, to a certain extent, we need that conditionality, because the real problem with japan is not so much tariffs. of course the idea would be to eliminate 100% of tariffs, which normally you would not have with a developing or an emerging economy. the real problem is with respect to non-tariff barriers. we have been proposing a list of 27 non-tariff barriers which we think are crucial for our trade relationship, but in only three cases out of the 27 is there now a solution on the table which seems to be acceptable. the japanese claim that they have solutions for all the rest too, but we cannot see a solution in the proposals that they have been making to us. so we believe that we need a scoping exercise so that we know what we are talking about. i hope that, in the course of that scoping exercise, we can do away with a number of non-tariff barriers, and that this will create the right climate for us to get down to actual free trade negotiations with japan. that is how we see it. we see it, at least partially, as a precondition that we should stick to.
, in writing. i believe that the convergence of the european and japanese economies in the field of aeronautics is a great opportunity. the european aerospace industry has long been a major supplier of civil and military technology to the world market. japan is also working on advanced solutions for both general aviation and passenger and cargo transport. the transport of people and goods by air is expected to be one of the fastest growing industries in the coming decades. although we already have examples of closer cooperation between eu and japanese partners, such as the ec 145 helicopter jointly designed by europcopter and kawasaki, the potential for cooperation is much greater in my view. i call for action to be taken to bring europe and japan closer together in the field of aeronautics, both at the level of companies and research units.
member of the commission. − madam president, the regulation on transitional arrangements for bilateral investment treaties is an important legislative initiative. the lisbon treaty has entrusted the union with a new exclusive competence on foreign direct investment. the continued existence, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, of more than 1200 investment-related international agreements concluded by member states is not questioned under international law. however, it is incompatible, under eu law, with the new exclusive competence on foreign direct investment. at the same time, these agreements serve as a valuable source of legal protection for european investors operating abroad. because the lisbon treaty does not contain arrangements clarifying the status of bilateral agreements, we need to establish legal certainty for investors benefiting from these agreements by authorising their continued existence. while it is important to authorise existing investment agreements, it is also important to foresee the possibility of taking action in a cooperative manner to address important issues that could arise with regard to the content of the agreements and their interaction with eu investment policy. we have to reserve appropriate mechanisms for union action to permit the development and implementation of the policy at eu level. i understand that, in relation to the commission proposal, the scope for such action is the most difficult issue – for parliament and even more so for the council. so the challenge we have here is to find a solution that safeguards the principles i have just outlined and is acceptable to both parliament and the council. we realise, in this respect, that there are still some considerable gaps to be bridged between the institutions but, at the end of the day, we will have to find a compromise in the interests of the eu and of its investors. we believe that the amendments adopted by the committee on international trade constitute a basis for finding such a solution. they maintain fundamental trust in the commission’s proposal but, at the same time, seek a potential compromise. we note with satisfaction here that articles 5 and 6 would still leave the commission the power to review investment agreements and withdraw authorisation should such agreements create major problems. given the positions of the main protagonists in this process, we will all have to show some level of flexibility. the commission is ready to play its part, to be flexible and to facilitate an agreement between parliament and the council, but this cannot be at any cost. we will be vigilant on the basic principles of our proposal. the existence of the bilateral investment agreements needs to be safeguarded but, at the same time, we cannot unconditionally bless agreements if they create significant problems. the commission fully shares parliament’s sentiment that the competence on investment should be exercised primarily at eu level, and we support the objective of europeanisation of investment negotiations. however, i need to make clear that the commission will not be able to negotiate with all countries targeted for investment protection by member states. our member states have investment treaties with more than 100 countries. replacing those will be a very gradual exercise, taking years. that is why it is important to create an effective mechanism empowering the member states, under certain conditions, to continue negotiating and concluding bilateral investment agreements. such a mechanism should respect the procedures and prerogatives of the institutions involved. finally, it needs to be emphasised that we are approaching a decisive stage of the legislative process, and time is becoming a major factor. it is important because the longer the adoption of the regulation takes, the longer the limbo period lasts, with the potential to create legal uncertainty for investors. i hope that, after the vote, parliament and the council can sit down together to find an early agreement on this issue. we are ready actively to support them in that endeavour.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to start by thanking mr schlyter for having, as lead rapporteur, set up the right framework for the work in committee to build a majority, to produce a draft which would get a majority in committee. as mr. schlyter said, "what happens tomorrow, the vote is open, "but i hope it reflects what the committee has worked out. the creation of a common investment policy for the european union is a very important step forward in the integration of the european union. if companies compete together within the european union on the basis of the same framework, the same rules, then it should also be the case that they should have the same legal protection system outside the eu. i also agree with commissioner de gucht on this. i am very pleased that he is supporting the draft negotiated in committee, because it is indeed a very good compromise between the different positions: a compromise between the commission's position on the one hand and the views expressed by the member states on the other, a compromise which is in the interests of investors, but which above all opens up good prospects for the union's investment policy in the future, serving the union as a whole. it is very important that we create a new system, starting by embedding it in the legal system of the agreements that currently exist, which have been negotiated by the member states in order to finally create a common system of protection for the whole of the european union. it is important that this resolution, which will be voted on tomorrow, be agreed quickly with the council. this is very important. i hope that this will happen this year, with the active participation and support of the commission.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would simply like to touch upon the question that has been raised by several members of this parliament on compatibility with eu policies. we aim to be flexible and to achieve a good compromise for the transitional regulation. these amendments go even further than the commission’s initial proposal for the regulation, as they considerably expand the scope of the review and withdrawal mechanisms which are already a source of major concern for member states and many members of parliament. these new criteria, relating to incompatibilities with established policies of the union or general principles of the union set out in article 21 of the treaty, could be regarded as opening the door to all sorts of additional requirements that existing investment agreements should meet. i believe such an approach would be strongly opposed by member states as considerably increasing the level of legal uncertainty for investors benefiting from these agreements. to return to the next steps in this procedure, i believe that tomorrow’s vote will be an important signal for all stakeholders in this process, and most notably also for the council as regards the legislative procedure. the outcome of tomorrow’s vote will be discussed with the ministers during the public debate next friday. next friday we have a foreign affairs council on trade, and this will be one of the topics that we will discuss. i hope – and i am confident – that your votes will provide the basis for an agreement. i understand that tomorrow there will be a vote on the amendments and on the report as a whole but – as mr caspary, among others, has said – i hope that this will not hinder us from reaching an early agreement at second reading.
today is the 61st anniversary of the schuman declaration. many official celebrations, feasts, and parades are held on this anniversary. but let us not allow the festive atmosphere of the holiday to blind us to the problems facing the community today. first, we must ask ourselves whether the national egoisms that emerge in the negotiations for the next financial perspective are in line with the founding fathers' calls for solidarity. secondly, are initiatives which are hindering european integration, such as the recent initiative to restrict the schengen area, in keeping with the european spirit? finally, does the crisis we are facing in the euro area and the lack of solidarity between countries in dealing with it pose a threat to the success of this most ambitious project of european union integration? unfortunately, there are many more examples of the crisis of european integration. let us use this anniversary to reflect seriously on what we can do to curb these negative trends and return to the right dynamics of integration in the future. let us renew the spirit of the european thought of our founding father, robert schuman, so that the successes of our joint project so far are not lost.
madam president! i take the floor once again in a very painful matter for poles in lithuania. in this country, only 7% of the population is polish, although of course in some regions there are more. it is very sad that before 2004, before lithuania joined the european union, the polish minority enjoyed greater rights there than they do now. it is a paradox that at this moment there has been a regression, especially in terms of education, the registration of names in the polish version and the rights and privileges of poles living in lithuania. i think that the european parliament, which is taking a very good stand on the minorities of different nations in europe and the world, should also take a stand on the polish minority in lithuania.
member of the commission. − madam president, at this very late hour i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur mr arsenis for his commitment and his work in preparing the report on forest protection and information. thanks also to the members of the committee who have put forward their views for their valuable contributions. the commission announced its intention to present a green paper on forest protection and information in the context of the 2009 white paper on adaptation to climate change. it was adopted in march 2010. the green paper set out the various socio-economic and environmental functions of forests and the challenges they will face in coming decades. it also reviewed current forest information systems in europe. most importantly it invited parliament and the council, as well as all other interested stakeholders, to provide their views on forest protection and information and on the way forward so that the eu could provide added value to the work going on at member state level and more widely across europe. the guiding principle has been to respect member states’ competences and subsidiarity while at the same time seeing how best the eu could contribute to ensuring that the functions of forests are protected and that the information necessary to achieve this is available. the past year has been rich in discussion and the council conclusions, together with the results of the stakeholder consultation, are already feeding into the commission’s reflections on the next steps. despite the fact that there has been a lengthy debate as to whether the eu needs a forestry policy or not, i am very pleased to see that appreciation of the economic, social and environmental functions of forests was a common theme in the stakeholder and council input and that this concern is again evident today in the report drafted by kriton arsenis. likewise, there is a very great need for information at a comparable level across a wide range of forestry-related issues such as employment, stocks, biomass, fires, soil and forest carbon information and trends, forest health, biodiversity and water protection, and each institution lays great emphasis on finding means to achieve this. in anticipation of parliament’s report we have already begun working with the member states to develop further and more clearly the precise information needs at eu level. the report will help us to focus this work. a further phase needs to be developed once the information needs are clear. we will be working on both aspects over the coming year, carefully and without duplicating other efforts in the forest area. armed with relevant useful and comparable information, we should in the near future be better able to provide eu added value across forestry-related socio-economic and environmental issues, thus paving the way for better eu input to help forests to continue to deliver their multiple benefits for us all. the commission will now study this report in detail and reflect fully on our response to it and to the council conclusions and stakeholders’ input.
, in writing. mr president, the report rightly points out that forestry policy is a matter for the member states, but we must also promote it at european level, for example, because of the principle of subsidiarity. in the context of climate change, it is crucial to ensure the safety of forests, as they are increasingly vulnerable to natural disasters. especially fires or mass disease of the tree. we must remember the unique role of forests, which provide balance and biodiversity and are essential to the proper functioning of the economy, not only for the production of timber but also for other products and services, as a common public good. i therefore believe that the establishment of a common european sustainable forestry management is of the utmost importance. i am asking the commission to develop legally binding sustainability criteria for wood biomass. at the same time, introducing tools to collect and share information on forests and forestry.
c01010a010a010c01010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a0a010a0a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a010a0a010a010a0a010a0a010a0a0a010a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0
i wanted to say at the outset that as far as our security in parliament is concerned, the secretary-general and the deputy secretary-general are making a lot of efforts in this direction. we had a board meeting yesterday and we spent a lot of time on this. we need to make this work. but i also have an appeal to my colleagues, to all members of the european parliament. but there are certain rigors that must be met. i know that they are sometimes burdensome, but if we want to have a safe parliament and at the same time open to the people, we must have controls, although i know that colleagues and myself are sometimes irritated by them. but believe me, there are two options: either we have these checks and we can feel safer, or we don't have them and there's no safety at all. i would also like to ask my colleagues once again to take a positive view of this increased control, which i would not wish to abandon. it will also apply in the future. we also have other plans to keep parliament open, because it's very important. we want to be a parliament open to the people, but at the same time the security requirements say that we have to take certain measures that have not been taken before. this also applies to our assistants, and i have been informed that our assistants are even more outraged than the members. i would therefore ask that the assistants who work very hard in parliament also pay attention to the need for controls. not only are the deputies being monitored, but the assistants as well. i'm convinced we'll adopt these rules to feel safer.
the next speaker is minister zsolt lászló becsey on behalf of the council. minister, thank you very much for coming here this morning. the hungarian presidency is giving a very good example, also to the next presidencies, in being present for this very important discussion. i am saying what our colleague bart staes said a few minutes ago: it is very good that you are present.
it's not really a question of increasing the number of eurosceptics after the eu institutions spend money. the problem is that european taxpayers and european voters deserve transparency, a certain elementary respect. the fact that money is very badly recovered or that it is badly used does not build the authority of the european union and our institutions. and it's not built by agencies that are examples of a kind of euro-bureaucracy, that escape internal and external controls, and where you hire people you know, and the competitions are fiction. the museum of european history is very controversial. hence the majority of our group will vote against most of these reports.
i'm not going to let you do this. i regard this discharge as one in a series of discharges for subsequent years and i remember very well how we had great reservations three years ago, especially in areas such as the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the regional funds, external action. it is true that the commission has made some commitments to improve over the last two years, and we are seeing this improvement: the level of error observed over the last three years is decreasing. and this seems to be a good opportunity to say to commissioner šemeta: we see this, we notice this, we note this and this is a good sign. what still worries me, however, is the slow pace of recovery of misspent funds. secondly, a certain reluctance to focus on priority projects and to avoid this level of error here. no matter how valuable the project, a mistake in funding, in the execution of the finances, seems to be an accident of something else. i am very concerned about the growing discrepancy between commitments and payments. this means that we are accumulating a sum of money that we feel that the states are not able to spend. and this is the fault of the member states. the council's reluctance to cooperate with parliament on discharge is very worrying. but seeing as you have spent your years in this house, i think you will be able to convince the council that parliament is the only democratically elected body to which the council is accountable. and finally, i share many of the concerns about the agency, although we have concerns about a small group of them.
madam president! every discharge debate is in a specific context. today's debate is taking place in the context of the crisis and the measures to be taken to deal with it, the financial difficulties of some countries, on the one hand, and the new perspective for 2014 and beyond, which is already being prepared, on the other. we must be aware that our comments on the implementation of the budget today have a very serious impact on the debate on the future of the financial perspective. so the discharge debate has an element not only of control but also of correcting what we have failed to do or what requires modern action today. the characteristic of this debate is not only that on the one hand we have a growing number of critics of the budget, but on the other hand we have clearly better results, for example in cohesion policy, where there is an obvious improvement that the critics of the european budget do not see. i would also like to point out that today the positive effects must also be part of the consideration of further action; what type of action must be continued and what regulations introduced, in particular as regards the recovery of amounts. i would also draw the attention of the house to the following point: the debate on the correctness of the implementation of the budget must be accompanied by a debate on the effectiveness of policies. this is very much in the european parliament's documents, but we focus on procedures. and if we are to speak of a europe of results, of results, it is not the same as correctness in procedures. one requires the other, but we must also be mindful of the consequences and the results of our actions.
, in writing. it is rare for meps to be unanimous in the european parliament, which is divided into eight political groups. in today's vote on the 39th discharge for the 2009 budget for each institution, we postponed the decision to grant discharge to the council of the european union by a majority of 637 votes to 4, with 13 abstentions. today's decision by the members of parliament is a natural consequence of the events of the last few months. council representatives, including the secretary-general, did not receive any invitation from members of the committee on budgetary control to discuss council expenditure in 2009. moreover, we were not given any answers to any of the dozens of specific questions, including the way the european external action service, which was set up at the end of 2009, is financed (full list of questions in the rivellini report). if we recall the difficulties of negotiating council expenditure in 2007 and 2008 and the far-reaching concessions made by parliament, the latter's position this year is understandable. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, both institutions need a formal agreement on the revision of expenditure to replace the 'gentleman's agreement' of 30 years ago. citizens have the right to demand transparency in the finances of the council and parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
georgia is one of the countries of strategic importance, especially for the countries located in the eastern part of the european union. in addition, it is covered by the eastern partnership programme, which aims to strengthen cooperation with community countries. it is a country that emphasises a strong pro-euro-atlantic policy direction. the recent georgian-russian conflict in august 2008 has shown the importance of keeping georgia in the european political arena. the macro-financial assistance programme implemented since 2009 to strengthen georgia's economy therefore remains crucial for the further development of positive political-economic relations, as well as in the context of national security. i therefore fully support the european commission's proposal to allocate an additional pool of funds for grants and loans to improve georgia's financial situation.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am concerned about the agency's work programme for 2010 and at the same time believe that it should be improved to introduce targets and key performance indicators, while improving the resource planning system. i also point out the need to improve the monitoring system for certification projects to ensure that the fees charged throughout the project do not deviate significantly from the actual costs. i have finally decided to support the discharge for the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i welcome the work of the european maritime safety agency. i also believe that the adoption of a five-year strategy in march 2010 will be a step forward in its actions and in improving its further work. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2009. however, i believe that the council should take some steps to close one of the agency's offices, as this would generate unnecessary additional costs. but it doesn't need two seats to work properly. i am also concerned about the breach of the staff regulations and their implementing provisions.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2009. i am aware that the joint undertaking is still in the start-up phase. unfortunately, at this stage, there were numerous delays in projects, with 65% of the initial funds being used. in addition, no seat in belgium has been established so far, which significantly hampers the smooth operation of the company 'clear sky'.
in writing. - scientists predict that by the middle of the 21st century, the world's seas and oceans will be empty. this will be the result of the unwise management of natural resources, such as fish and seafood. despite the restrictions and bans, illegal and even predatory fishing is still common. therefore, increased controls are needed to prevent the destruction of aquatic ecosystems and the resulting ecological disaster. a sound fisheries policy is particularly important in the face of the threat of a food crisis, which is a risk in the face of a growing population. as the largest market, the eu should therefore support measures to prevent fisheries-related infringements.
in writing. - i voted to give more aid to georgia. it stands out among the eastern partnership countries in terms of reforms in every field. in particular, i welcome the use of the simplified procedure in the preparation of the report on further macro-financial assistance to georgia this has accelerated the process and allowed a faster vote on the report. georgia's economy survived russia's military invasion in 2008 and is doing very well in the face of other countries of similar size in the difficult times of the global financial crisis. since the rose revolution, georgia has undergone numerous reforms to liberalise and democratise the system so that it is more business-friendly and enables the creation of a free market economy and a democratic society. since 2004, georgia has unprecedently freed business from bureaucratic burdens. in georgia, the formalities necessary for starting a business are limited. the tax system was reformed, resulting in a fivefold increase in budget revenues. in summary, georgia was opened to free and unfettered trade. georgia has virtually eliminated the cancer of corruption in state institutions and the civil service through a series of reforms in the public sector (prosecutor's office, judiciary, police) and politics. georgia is now seen as a country with a dynamic economy. in view of the above, we should continue to motivate georgia to develop not only by making demands but also by providing assistance.
i understand this is your observation of protocol. thank you for that.
the next item on the agenda is the council and commission statements on migration and asylum flows and their impact on schengen (2011/2689 ((rsp)).
although i live relatively far away in poland, i feel that i fully understand the concerns that uncontrolled immigration raises in france and italy. immigration from north africa is a natural factor raising cultural and social tensions, adding to the pressure on member states' social budgets. well, then, there's something to talk about. you don't turn your head. the french, the italians, the maltese are paying the ultimate price today for the fact that the controls at the external borders of the european union simply do not work. the european nations are also paying the price for our failure to stem the tide of immigration to europe. i only have one call. i would like to see the amendments to the schengen code not become an excuse to restrict the freedom of movement of citizens of the member states of the european union. such demands have been made for a very long time on the polish-german border against polish citizens. it will be easier to reach an agreement if we have full guarantees that the changes to the schengen code will not affect the citizens of the member states.
, in writing. while discussing how to strengthen and improve the management of the schengen area, we must also consider the new eu migration policy not only in the context of the situation in north africa, but also in the context of possible developments in our eastern neighbours. it is difficult to predict what may happen in the post-soviet countries in the future. we also have to take into account the challenges facing europe. the eu population is ageing and therefore the influx of migrants should not be seen as a threat to european labour markets alone. migrants often contribute to the economic development of the country to which they come. this was the case after the accession of new member states. germany, fearing the influx of migrants, has applied transitional periods and has only now opened its borders to polish workers. the english decided to open up their labor market right away. now they count the benefits of employing some 2 million young, fit, and energetic poles. and it's often said that we should accept political migration, but close europe to economic migration. i don't think that makes much sense, because it's often hard to distinguish between the two types of migration. how do you classify the middle class protests in arab countries? they were both political and economic. so instead of being consumed by imaginary fears, let's think about opportunities for growth.
i want to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. well, i agree -- and so do most of the people in this room -- that the registry will be a step forward in terms of transparency in the legislative process, but i think it's just one step. other steps and solutions should be seriously considered. i think the most important thing is the answer to the question of what can a member of parliament do. does the member of parliament work professionally only here in parliament, or does he also have some other activity in addition to his work in parliament? i think personally that this other activity should be very narrowly defined, should be reduced to academic work and to publication. any other activity on the various councils will always raise questions and doubts.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the european parliament is commemorating the victims and all those affected by the chernobyl nuclear disaster, the worst nuclear disaster in history, in this plenary session. this anniversary, especially in the context of the recent events in japan, is a tragic occasion for reckoning and reflection on nuclear safety. the tragedy of that time also showed the helplessness and thoughtlessness of the then communist authorities in ukraine, who tried to hide from the world the fact and the extent of the chernobyl accident. let us recall just a few facts that illustrate the scale, scope, and magnitude of that tragedy. the explosion of the chernobyl nuclear power plant reactor contaminated some 100 000 km2 of land, 70% of which was in belarus. radioactive substances also reached scandinavia, central europe, including poland, and southern europe, including greece and italy. some 115 000 people were evacuated from areas near the reactor, and some 220 000 people from belarus, the russian federation and ukraine were resettled after 1986. the devastation of this disaster on both health and the environment is very difficult to estimate. the experts are still unable to determine the number of fatalities. the world health organization estimates that the number of cancer deaths caused by pollution from the plant explosion could be as high as 9,000. other sources estimate that about 200,000 people have already died from radiation sickness and that another 100,000 people may die in the future from cancer caused by the chernobyl disaster. according to recent studies, people in at least two ukrainian districts continue to eat contaminated food. it should be recalled that the european union, as the founder of the chernobyl shelter fund, has made the largest financial contribution to the chernobyl disaster response. on the 25th anniversary, the european commission announced that it had committed eur 110 million to stabilise and protect the environment at the chernobyl nuclear power plant. in this context, we must not forget that the approach to nuclear security is a trans-territorial and global one and should therefore be addressed in a spirit of solidarity and cross-border responsibility. i therefore also ask and appeal to the european commission to carry out a long-term and comprehensive study of the health consequences of the chernobyl disaster. is the commission prepared to undertake and support a long-term, lifetime study of the effects of the chernobyl disaster on the health of europeans in all areas of radioactive fallout? does the european commission have data on environmental pollution in the areas most affected by the explosion? will the commission, on the anniversary of the disaster, encourage governments to make public commitments to provide new resources to help deal with the consequences of the nuclear disaster? given the number of nuclear power plants in the european union and the current level of coordination in the european union, what possible scenarios are known to the commission regarding the effects of a major nuclear accident at a given plant on the population of individual member states? does the european commission have a plan for coordinating national positions in the event of a nuclear disaster? nuclear disasters are surprising and always have international and global consequences. so it's better to have a set of necessary responses in advance that will minimize the risk and prevent further disasters.
on behalf of the ecr group. 25 years after the tragic chernobyl disaster, chernobyl remains a reference point for european politics. sometimes it's very accurate, but sometimes it's completely meaningless. unlike the soviet union 30 years ago, we in the european union have very good legal tools to enforce our security standards. they are the highest of world standards, which is why it is an abuse to use chernobyl today for anti-nuclear propaganda based on common prejudice. the european nuclear industry is also being held back by another aspect: it contributes to our continued dependence on fossil fuel imports from third countries. chernobyl may also provide useful lessons. there are plans to build a series of russian nuclear power plants on our eastern border to export electricity to the countries of the european union. they are built without eu safety standards. it is worthwhile for the commission to take action to enforce its own standards not only within the union but also outside it, since the installations in the kaliningrad oblast or in belarus are oriented towards the european market. the question is whether the commission will have the strength and imagination to take action in this area.
twenty-five years after the chernobyl nuclear disaster, we are becoming increasingly aware of the tragic consequences of a nuclear disaster for human health and even for the lives of people and the environment. this is also the awareness that we have after what happened recently in fukushima. one of the main causes of the chernobyl disaster, we know for sure, was a faulty reactor design. and the question is: does the european union control what happens to the remaining soviet-era reactors, what steps is it taking in that direction to ensure their safety? there are currently over 140 nuclear power plants in the european community and over 190 on the european continent. i therefore support the decision to carry out load tests on nuclear power stations in the union. however, these tests will not be compulsory and there will be no consequences for not participating. so what are the effects of these tests for power plants that fail or do not participate? we need to set high standards for nuclear power plants so that they can gain more public trust than they have so far, as they are an important source of energy for europe. we should also develop other possible sources of energy, such as shale gas, which offers many opportunities for energy production, so that we do not build up nuclear energy unnecessarily.
two weeks ago, a quarter of a century passed since the tragic explosion at chernobyl. i remember very well the days immediately after the tragedy, when the communist regime in my country, poland, concealed the truth about the fact itself, and then about the scale of the disaster, and thousands of people were driven away without regard for their health in the may day marches, just five days after the explosion, when the radioactive cloud covered a piece of europe, also reaching the north-eastern part of my country - this is the area of poland that i have the honour to represent in the european parliament as a constituency. the issue still unresolved is the proper containment of the blast site. work on the new coating has been halted due to lack of funds and community assistance is therefore necessary to complete the work. but we can't escape the atom. nuclear energy is an excellent tool for building europe's energy independence. its further development is therefore inevitable, as evidenced by the plans to create further facilities in poland, lithuania and slovakia, which is why i support the introduction of stress tests and plant safety assessments. testing should be mandatory and carried out on a cyclical basis. international cooperation in enhancing nuclear safety should also be actively promoted, and similar stress tests should be carried out at power plants in ukraine, the territory of russia and the former soviet states.
i'm not going to let you do this. today, as we commemorate the victims of the chernobyl disaster, we also think of the victims of fukushima and of the safety of our citizens in europe. and we're discussing that, too. in europe, public concern about nuclear power has recently increased. and all the studies show that in all the countries of the european union, including my country, poland, support for nuclear power has fallen by 10-15%. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the criteria of the six-point tests announced in budapest are met, which will increase the sense of security. and, commissioner, you cannot give in to the wishes of those member states who demand more lenient criteria. this is what we are fighting for at the moment, and we are very much insisting that in the case of a crisis, as well as in the case of simple human error, we do not go for half-measures, for relaxing the criteria. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste. we talked about the countries that are neighbouring europe, that have nuclear power. i think that these issues should be included in the commission's communication on the external energy dimension. it is also the energy that flows from us to europe, just like gas or other energy sources, and it should be covered by eu policy. we must also work in parallel to europeanise energy policy.
, in writing. this year marks the 25th anniversary of the chernobyl nuclear disaster in ukraine. on 26 april 1986, a sudden increase in reactor power during a system test caused damage to the reactor vessel, leading to a series of explosions. according to the un, the contamination covered an area within 500 km of the power plant. some 115,000 people were evacuated from areas near the reactor, and some 220,000 people from belarus, the russian federation and ukraine were resettled after 1986. nuclear accidents happen suddenly and unexpectedly. twenty-five years ago, there was the chernobyl accident, and just this march, there was the fukushima accident. it should be noted that the disaster was caused by a failure of the cooling systems due to a power failure, and power outages are a frequent occurrence in the member states. we should certainly learn from history, but let us not become hysterical over the disaster in japan. the accident raised serious concerns about nuclear safety worldwide. all indications are that nuclear energy will remain an important source of energy in the near future, and it is therefore essential to ensure the highest possible level of safety in the energy sector.
member of the commission. − the picture in the european union is quite uneven. the overall statistics – the averages – are very bad; they are really alarming. however, the point is that some countries have relatively good performances, successfully fighting youth unemployment even in the recession. this is particularly the case in the netherlands and austria, and to some extent also in germany. countries with weaker performances can learn from these experiences. the successful model has several components, and there are also several reasons for failure in countries where youth unemployment has risen to one third of the age group. there are quite a few – more than half a dozen –countries in the second group at this moment. the link between education and the labour market is absolutely key to improving the performance of the education system – vocational training and further training opportunities are particularly important – so we advocate reforms which point in that direction. there is clearly a role to play for better employment contracts, which is why, in the flagship initiative agenda for new skills and jobs and subsequent documents, we highlighted the problem of segmentation and advocated the use of open-ended contracts, which may have a wider relevance but which help the younger generation in particular. we have also advocated youth guarantees, which have been successfully applied in some member states; wider use of these is very promising. i would also like to highlight the youth-specific esf programmes. i have seen quite a few of them. i think that they are very important, especially where the risk of marginalisation, of being locked out of employment opportunities, is a great social risk. i think that the european social fund can be used in an innovative way; there are many very good examples. we are prepared to disseminate good projects which can provide employment and learning opportunities where young people live; but there are also many examples which provide opportunities to go and work in other countries. i believe that, especially at this time, we also have to draw the attention of young people to the need for mobility and to foreign opportunities. we need to help boost skills and spread information – the eures network is very useful there and that is what the commission directly supports – and also help mobility, because job opportunities and vacancies very often come up in different regions or different countries. at a young age, this should not be seen as an obstacle.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future common agricultural policy must also respond to the challenges facing agriculture, and i am thinking here of food security, the stabilization of agricultural incomes, the production of high-quality products and high food security. but at the same time, the common agricultural policy must also respond to environmental and territorial challenges and objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, while supporting the competitiveness and sustainability of agricultural sectors and rural areas. the commission intends to propose an ambitious and thorough reform of the common agricultural policy which will require farmers to make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the cumulative effect of greening direct payments and better targeting of rural development measures will allow the cap to provide a stronger and broader response in terms of the provision of environmental public goods. a strong and ambitious common agricultural policy also requires an appropriate budget from the european union. in this context, it is expected that the commission will present its legislative proposals for the next multiannual financial framework at the end of june 2011. the commission will then present its proposals on the reform of the common agricultural policy in the second half of 2011 to ensure that we can coordinate the presentation of legislative proposals at budgetary level while taking into account our ambitions for the future common agricultural policy.
i'm not going to let you do this. what you said suggests that there will be very profound changes in the common agricultural policy. my question is therefore: will these be merely qualitative changes, or will they include, for example, changes in the allocation of funds to individual countries? but today, the money for agriculture is distributed very differently between countries.
member of the commission. − it is clear that we have had very many challenges in the last couple of years. however, regarding north africa for instance, i must say that – as was just mentioned – what started in tunisia was, among other things, triggered by the increase in food prices there. i think that the world saw that climate change is not the only reason why we have increases in food prices, but climate change is a threat multiplier. it makes other kinds of threats worse. it is not an ‘either/or’ situation. however, i think that in many respects it is dawning on ever more countries, governments, businesses and sectors that there is a link between how we address climate change and how we provide security for people.
member of the commission. − the commission has actually already responded to similar written questions from the honourable member mr ziobro on the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union by 2020 and on the question of carbon leakage, back in march and april 2010. the eu has managed to decouple its economic growth from its emissions. eu gdp has increased by 45% since 1990 while emissions have been reduced by 13%, and that includes 2010 figures, meaning that was after we exited the crisis. over the same period, the european union manufacturing industry grew by more than 30%. these figures show that continued growth can go hand in hand with reducing emissions. for instance, it is actually estimated that, between 2005 and 2009, 550 000 new jobs were provided by the renewable energy industry alone. firstly, with regard to carbon leakage, the commission would like to stress that in the latest amendment of the ets directive the european parliament and the council have decided to tackle this issue by allocating a higher share of free allowances for sectors and subsectors deemed to be at a significant risk of carbon leakage. the commission's analysis published back in may last year confirmed that free allocation is an effective means to address the potential risk of carbon leakage. moreover, the risks for carbon leakage have been reduced further, since now more than 80 countries, amongst which all emerging economies, are implementing the pledges they committed to in copenhagen and are implementing their domestic targets. i must say that the commission has no evidence that companies are moving their production outside the eu due to climate policy. secondly, the european commission has assessed in detail the costs and benefits of co2 emission reductions on the european economy in the framework of the climate and energy package agreed back in 2008. more recent analysis conducted in 2010 shows that the costs of meeting the 20% greenhouse gas reduction target have fallen by at least one third compared to the analysis made in 2008. now they are estimated at eur 48 billion, which represents 0.32% of the projected 2020 gdp. having said that, it should also be mentioned that some of these investments will come back in, for instance, saved oil expenditure. in developing the climate and energy package, the commission has taken due account of the different circumstances in the member states in terms of economic development, wealth and energy mix. in addition, the climate and energy package contains three specific mechanisms to balance overall costs across member states, so that efforts are shared in a fair and equitable manner.
i thank you very much, mr president, for taking my question into account. but given the long delay, i'll just say one thing. i would be happy to share with the commissioner information on companies which decide to move their production outside the european union precisely because of the restrictions linked to the reduction of co2 emissions. i think that the specific facts i will present to you will also lead the commission to analyse the consequences for the economies of the european union, what negative consequences this process has. given that co2 emissions are unlimited and that once this production is moved, emissions will continue, which will have a negative impact on the environment - and this is inevitable - the eu economy will suffer because it exports jobs.
on behalf of the ecr group. the simplification of the existing legal framework for the labelling of textile products is intended to encourage the development and introduction of new fibres on the market. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow differs significantly from the one proposed by the european commission, which introduced mainly technical amendments to simplify the existing legislation. the report's primary objective is to speed up the procedures for registering a new fibre name in order to effectively support innovation in the european textile and clothing industry, while enabling consumers to use modern products more quickly. although more than two years of work have slowed down the process of simplifying procedures, i would remind you that parliament proposed to extend the original scope of the regulation, in particular to include the provisions on the country of origin of textile products, and i am glad that the compromise reached has been balanced. i would point out, however, that my group has voted to approve the proposal in its initial form with immediate benefits for business and consumers. we have proposed from the outset that these issues should not be dealt with in the context of the technical report. the commission will therefore be asked to further examine the issue of the current made in labels for textile products manufactured outside the union and to report by 2013 on the possible launch of a system of indication of the origin of products. that report may be accompanied by a legislative proposal. the compromise between parliament and the council also guarantees that the labelling of clothing products will inform the use of materials of animal origin. if we are to work in the future on new ways of informing consumers about textiles, such as european-wide size harmonisation or rfid technologies, let us remember to take a pragmatic approach in line with what consumers expect as well as what the industry can do.
i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to ask a question. i want to make it clear that if it were not for the work of the european commission and for the work of you, mr commissioner, the situation in the european banking system would undoubtedly be worse today. but the situation is very dynamic. some of the problems with bank liquidity are fortunately beyond us, but new problems and threats are emerging. i would like to ask you, commissioner, if you would define today the threats that are emerging now and those that will have to be dealt with in the near future. because i want to emphasize, very strongly, that some of the problems are fortunately beyond us, but there are still other problems that are emerging.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to apologise for the delay. there was a very exciting and interesting discussion between president barroso, commissioner lewandowski and the leaders of the political groups so we are a few minutes late. there is now a very important discussion ahead of us and i would like to invite you to this discussion.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on the substantive aspects and main directions of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy (article 36 teu) (2010/2986 ((rsp)) and-statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria and in camp ashraf and the situation of the coptic community in egypt (2011/2690 ((rsp)) and-report by gabriele urquini on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the annual report of the european parliamentary assembly on the main aspects and main lines of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy (article 36 teu) (2010/2986 ((rsp)) and-statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria and in camp ashraf and the situation of the coptic community in egypt (2011/2690 ((rsp)) and the report by the commission on the annual report by the european parliament on the annual report of the council on the european parliament's foreign affairs on the annual report of the european parliament on the main aspects and main lines of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu) (2010/296/2016)) and-statement by the report by the vice-president of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the commission/high representative on the eu/high representative on the situation in syria and in syria and in syria and in syria (2010/228-09/22/07-09-09-09-01 may) and the situation in syria and the european parliamentary i'll just say a few words to start. on monday we celebrated europe day, the day of the european community. today, perhaps more than ever, our european community needs a common foreign and security policy. we are facing historic challenges, not just overcoming the crisis that has been imported into europe. we must prepare for this kind of situation in the future and solve crisis problems outside europe as well, not just inside. we also have rising unrest in syria, bahrain, yemen, and again in tunisia and egypt. we should not forget our neighbours to the east: we just launched euronest a few days ago. we have our european diplomacy, which must be an effective tool for action outside the european union, because it is impossible to solve problems within the european union today if we do not start seriously to solve problems outside the european union. we as a union must have more political power than just economic power.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank members for their contributions. one of the themes that came through very much in what all of the group leaders said – although mr tannock pointed out that his group had never been in favour of the eeas – was the desire to see, if we have one, the unified approach. i agree. i do not lack any ambition for what europe can be. what i have to deal with is the reality of what we actually are. we passed a treaty, and i joked that when the treaty was passed i was handed it and given a pencil and those were the resources that i began with. it is pretty much true, but we are not where we will be. the challenge we have is how to make sure that, not just this house and the desire of honourable members with the passion that i feel here, but also the commission, the council, the foreign affairs council, the development council, the defence ministers – all of things that i chair and am responsible for bringing together – move with that same ambition. it does not surprise me at all, and i do not think it surprised honourable members either, that on the way to this, particularly at a time when so many things are happening, we find that it does not necessarily work as effectively as you would like, or indeed sometimes as i would like. what we need to do is continue that level of ambition for where we want to get to. that applies in everything we do, whether it is the sanctions we impose – where we need the 27 because we need unanimity – or whether it is in the approach that we take on support for the countries of egypt and tunisia. as mr verhofstadt said, we need the support of the commission to really move and change and have a new strategy and a new ambition in the long and the short term. well, we support people right now. all of these things require us to shift and make changes. we are on that journey. i am not complacent about it at all, but i am realistic about exactly where we are. you can challenge me – and you should as often as you like – to try and make this move faster, and i will do so. but do not accuse me of a lack of initiative, of not being ambitious for it and of not saying this loud and clear in the foreign affairs council, in the media and elsewhere, because that is not true. i am really ambitious for this. i am really determined that europe can be so much more than it is, but it requires us to get on that journey and stay on it together. it is difficult for individual member states with individual constituencies to necessarily always be able to look at this through the lens of what is best for europe in the world, and not what is best for the domestic situation. i understand that too. i agree with what mr daul said about neighbourhood terrorism and the middle east peace process as being some of the key objectives that we have in terms of the work we do this year. it is why we have been so engaged, for example in libya, on bringing together the regional organisations – the african union, the arab league, the un and the oic. this is really significant work in terms of thinking through how we are going to move forward in a process that it is currently extremely difficult. how do we get to the point where gaddafi has to go? we have the dialogue where people can see the future, and that work goes on all the time. it is absolutely critical and it requires us to have a united front. mr schulz said that there is a long way to go. i agree. we have much more that we need to do, and we need to make sure that the building of democracy is a big part of that journey, but we are on that journey as well in terms of what we can do. i like the three ‘c’s. i think we can become much more coherent. i think we can be better in cooperation and of course communautaire is the objective i know this parliament has. so please keep the pressure on me, but do so also in terms of member states. regarding the marshall plan, i think what general george marshall did with the initial usd 13 billion that he got from congress in 1948 is an extremely good model. it is a good model too because of the different things he did. he got loans, services, advisers and the breadth of things that could make a difference, so i think that it is a good model. it is not the plan we talk about for obvious reasons. people want something that is new and for them, but it is significant. i agree with you about the support and the issues of debt. that is why we are in discussion with countries with whom those countries have that relationship, and it is also why we are in discussion with the commission. i agree about the terrible violence in syria. i am not in any way lacking in ambition for what we should do with syria. what we have got is again a journey on sanctions. we started with the 13 people who were directly involved in the repression of the regime. there was a lot of discussion, mr cohn-bendit, about whether president assad should be on and there were lots of different views. i cannot just give you a list of member states who said yes or no. there were strong views about how we do this, bearing in mind some of the situations. the decision was taken that for the first list, no, but we will look at it again this week. i assure you that my determination is to put the maximum political pressure that we can on syria and to try and make sure – as i did when i spoke to foreign minister moallem yesterday – that they understand the significance of what they are doing and that they take this closing window to actually change course and make a difference. mr tannock, you talked about many things to do with the support of the 27, your desire to see us get the proper resources and being short-changed. i do not think we are short-changed. the institutions of europe are all focused in the same direction. we have got to make sure that the ambitions that you have for what we can achieve can actually be realised. i have to find the resources for opening an office in benghazi. supporting better our delegations in iraq, which some honourable members discussed with me this morning, requires resources. we have to find them, both by being better and more efficient – i agree with that – but also by recognising what we have to do. i have already talked about the flotilla, some of the issues concerning the palestinian authority and the discussions that are going on – mr belder, you raised them too – between fatah and hamas. i made it clear that our position on hamas has not changed, but i made it clear that we support ways in which president abbas can bring unity with palestinians with his technocratic government and with elections, which is going to be so important. we have not changed our position, and we are very clear that we are cautious in looking at this situation. i also wanted to make some reference to what mr bisky said when he talked about the poorest in the world: ‘support life with dignity’ was his expression. i think what we do with the millennium development goals and the work that we are doing in collaboration in bringing development together is going to be so important for that in the future. just quickly – because i do not want to take up too much time – i want to talk to mr albertini about his report and to quote from it. he talks about coherence and says ‘coherence requires first and foremost the political will of the eu member states to overcome their differing outlooks’. absolutely. we know that, if we are going to be successful in implementing lisbon fully – and this is what the report says – we need that sustainable funding in the next framework as well. i agree with the report in so many ways, but especially on the need to be proactive in promoting our values and in using all of the policy instruments that we have. i am also keen to improve the dialogue that we have. one of the greatest difficulties we have is time – how much time to spend – and i want to make sure that we are using the best possible time in discussions with you. mr gualtieri, you and i had a good discussion yesterday. i agree about the importance of moving forward, particularly on pooling and sharing which will be part of the discussion with the defence ministers next week. we have got to make sure that we use the resources of europe more effectively. it is a very simple idea to pool and share, but it is very powerful. we have big military potential, largely untapped, so decisions to use military assets and to support each other in pooling and sharing are something that we need to take forward. we are also trying to improve the work of the european defence agency and to take up some of the challenges that we have clearly seen in the responses that we have had in recent weeks, especially in libya. finally, i would like to thank ms muñiz de urquiza for this report and for her support on the un. i think in the work that i did at the un last week i have demonstrated my personal commitment to the power of multilateral action. we have got to look at the eu in the un system and in all of the other international organisations. we have got to be clearer in our voice and more prominent and more creative in what we do. that just leaves me to thank the first round of speakers and to say that i look forward to some final remarks at the end.
your highness! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gualtierri, for the hard work he has done, and the other co-rapporteurs with whom i have had the pleasure of working. as a newcomer to this role, i wanted to say that i expected, especially with this kind of military report, some heavy fighting, and it turned out to be a very peaceful job. the high representative said in her first speech on the conflicts that have erupted in north africa that we don't know how they will end and what will come of it. of course, we cannot say that the common security and defence policy will be such a miracle cure for all the evils of the world, but certainly its development would mean that we would know more about these conflicts, that we could perhaps prevent them or solve them. i am thinking here both of those conflicts that have erupted in north africa and the middle east, and of those frozen conflicts that are still raging in nagorno-karabakh, transnistria, or the occupied territories of georgia. it is very good that the report by mr gualtiri covers a wide range of issues, it is a rather large report. i can't say many because of the time limit, but i'd like to touch on two things. first, the question of the functioning of the eu mission. we have spoken about this many times in the subcommittee on security and defence, we have to learn from mistakes or from certain shortcomings so that these missions can function better in the future. the question of planning and management of european union operations remains open. the weimar triangle ministers have raised this in a letter to you. we hope to see concrete action in this area. and finally, the relations between the eu and nato. i'm glad you're keeping in touch with the secretary general of nato or the secretary of state of the united states. we have to continue these activities so that we don't duplicate activities, so that we just save money. we know that revolution is not possible, but we expect you to act in the name of evolution.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of the most moving moments of my life was when, in december 2007, i participated with president kaczyński and president adamkus in the symbolic opening of the border between poland and lithuania, as poland and lithuania joined the schengen area. i would like to say that for us, people who grew up behind the iron curtain, freedom of travel and europe without borders is a tangible example of the success of european integration. i would like to make an appeal to the house that the return to borders in europe should not become a tool for politics and an attempt to provide a populist response to perhaps even real problems. the schengen area is a great achievement and we should defend it. i thank the president for what she said, namely that our attitude towards hamas has not changed. the problem is, unfortunately, that the attitude of the palestinians, of president abbas, towards hamas has changed. i would like to appeal to you that the enormous aid that is going to the palestinian authority is not used by the enemies of israel to attack what is so far the only democracy in the region. i would like to remind you that israel is the only country in the middle east where the arab population can - and does - elect its representatives to the parliament.
despite the entry into force of the lisbon treaty governing the common foreign and security policy, little has changed since then. the existing diplomatic missions have been renamed, but the union has not strengthened its position as a global actor. one wonders whether it is even possible to pursue a common policy of 27 countries of the union. such conclusions are directly derived from the albertini report, which noted the lack of will on the part of the member states to pursue a common policy, and from the statements of some of the representatives of those states which gave the impression of division. similar conclusions were made in the gualtieri report, which pointed to widespread duplication of defence programmes leading to the waste of limited economic resources. the only real force is nato, which is why the voices of the left in parliament, expressed in writing in the opinion of a minority, demanding, among other things, the dissolution of nato, are dangerous and even anarchistic.
europe faces two problems today. the first is a new vision for the neighbourhood policy. i was in tunisia recently and i saw how much there is to look forward to from the european union. i have constant contact with ukraine and i know that they are also waiting for more: for more opportunities for the development of social cooperation, for more contacts, for us not to be limited in our european egoism. and i know that it is difficult for you to work because you are alone and you did not decide this - this is how your office was formed - but it seems that in the fall we thought that belarus was the most important, today - a bit like children who were interested in something else - we are looking at north africa. what is needed is a new vision of neighbourhood policy, and that is in your hands today. you've shown in the last few months that you're a strong person, that you can do this. perhaps europe today should not, as in ancient rome, defend itself on the borderline, on the rhine or elsewhere, but offer a bold political vision. not just the immigration issue, but the political vision. and today, one could say, the fate of europe, at this historic moment, is in your hands, and we count on you very much.
mr president, atrocities are happening in camp ashraf – atrocities that we obviously condemn and about which we are profoundly concerned – but i would like to ask lady ashton what instruments we are using apart from words? are we considering trade measures, aid measures, and other concrete and real measures, rather than persuasion, which is fruitless? regarding neighbourhood policy towards the countries on the doorstep of the union, i think this is the most important part of your portfolio, lady ashton. it is the core of foreign policy, because if we fail there we fail in overall foreign policy. the naked truth is that we are in retreat and in defensive mode in the southern neighbourhood and the eastern neighbourhood. we have been taken by surprise. lady ashton says there are storms in the neighbourhood. that is the word she used. where is our meteorological road map? time is a key factor in this policy and a scarce resource. in our neighbourhood policy we are always lagging behind events. even lady ashton’s and commissioner füle’s review of the european neighbourhood policy is delayed for the third time – and delayed in her office. our sin is inaction. foreign policy is about acts that change the course of events, not about words, series of meetings, fruitless persuasion and floods of statements. we should be using real and hard instruments to change things in libya, syria, camp ashraf and belarus. following member states and waiting for permission from foreign ministers to go ahead has become lady ashton’s doctrine and she treats it as virtue. it is the wrong approach. it condemns our foreign policy to the lowest common denominator and to always being late. we want a high representative to lead, not to follow. our debate has two weaknesses. first, we very often content ourselves with condemnation and making ineffective visa bans, which are ridiculously weak instruments. we also call for more money, to clear our conscience, but there is a lot of arab money which is not invested in arab democracy and arab prosperity.
let us stop complaining about the lack of a common european policy. in some places she is, in other places she is not. and as far as the neighbourhood policy is concerned, this common policy is. and in a unique way in north africa, new countries can support the west, because the west has no credibility. that's the credibility of those who have made revolutions in eastern european countries. and in the east, we all have business, east and west. but the old countries have money, they have the means. we need this money to carry out a common neighbourhood policy in the east and in the south, to build our credibility. and if we are talking about defence policy, what kind of defence policy is it that europe has no army? 60 european planes flying over libya: deaf and blind. there's no intelligence, these planes are not capable of carrying out their mission effectively. if the americans hadn't joined this mission in the first place, it would have been nothing. it wouldn't have any effect. and let's stop complaining about the lack of a common policy. as long as there is no common army, there will be no common security and defence policy.
, in writing. ladies and gentlemen, last week, a very important event took place. after long negotiations, we have finally succeeded in persuading our un partners to agree to a new status for the union within the organisation. this is a definite success, given the initial resistance of the general assembly. but we cannot fall into triumphalism and assume that the union will now present a united position at the united nations. the fact that the president of the european council or the high representative will be able to speak on our behalf does not mean that the member states will be able to present a common position on particularly controversial issues. the example of libya shows how deeply divided we are, even on seemingly obvious issues like the protection of civilians. it is therefore clear that without the political will of the member states, this decision will have no meaning. that is why i cannot agree with mrs ashton that the world will hear the union's clear and single voice from now on. i am rather afraid that for a long time we will be faced with a plurality of votes, where the union's united position will be weakened, not only by the permanent members of the security council, but also by the presidency seeking its place after the lisbon treaty. how does ms ashton intend to develop a unified eu voice at the un and how does she intend to build a good image of the eu in this organisation?
in writing. during the january debate on the situation in tunisia and egypt, as well as on freedom of religion, i mentioned the tragic situation of christians in arab countries, with particular emphasis on religious repression against the egyptian copts. i was paying attention to the radicalization of islam, directing its aggression against the followers of christ. today, i can see that my fears were justified. the clashes at st. menas church are just the tip of the iceberg of the tragedy of egyptian christians and the silence of international organizations. in this context, it is worth mentioning the attacks on the biszo monastery in march this year, when the egyptian army shelled a monastery full of refugees from cairo, and the activities of the extremist salafi islamic community, which were ignored by parliament and mrs ashton. in april, they carried out a series of attacks on christian sites in beni ahmad and the towns of bastil and kamadir. it is clear that the european community is still unable to develop a coherent strategy to respond to and prevent human rights violations in the asia-north africa region in the future. we should put more pressure on the egyptian authorities to protect the copts. the section on combating religious intolerance, with a particular focus on persecuted christians, within the political subcommittee of the european external action service should be strengthened.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote: see minutes) )
does the commission have something to say on this?
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the member’s proposal. it will leave time for more examination of the amendments that were adopted, and will allow parliament and the council time before the first-reading vote.
the report shall be referred to the committee on international trade.
dear colleagues, i have a statement to read. the casini report on the interinstitutional agreement on a common transparency register between the european parliament and the commission represents an important step forward in regulating relations of meps with outside interests. before we proceed to the vote on the report i would like to underline that the ongoing activities of the working group on the code of conduct for meps and outside interests do not intend to put into question the substance of the agreement reached with the commission and the content of the casini report. they rather aim at complementing the framework by adding new aspects and, in particular, at strengthening the applicable rules as regards access of interest groups to the european parliament premises. (interjection from the floor: ‘amen!’ laughter)
mr. chairman, please! in this amendment, the epp group asks that the word 'strongly' be deleted from paragraph 2. i hope there's no objection to this.
i filed an oral amendment. we apologize for the tone, but the dramatic events in libya have made it necessary for us to add a few words. in the third line after the words "deployment of the ground" we would like to ask for the following words to be added... (the ambassador continued in english) calls on the council to provide immediate humanitarian support to misrata and other population centres, specifically by naval means; is deeply concerned about the increasing number of victims of the conflict in libya and the gaddafi regime's reported use of cluster munitions and other weapons against the civilian population;
mr. chairman, please! i agree that european foreign policy must take account of the external dimension of the european area of freedom, security and justice. i therefore welcome any action that contributes to the promotion of peace, stability and the rule of law in countries and regions in crisis. i support the commitment to the transatlantic partnership as one of the main pillars of brussels' foreign policy, aimed at creating a barrier-free market with the united states. eastern policy is particularly important from the polish point of view. the report takes account of the need for political and economic integration with the union's eastern neighbours, while calling for a coherent approach in the negotiations on a new agreement with russia, drawing attention to the rule of law and human rights issues in that country. it also stressed the need to intensify accession negotiations with turkey and to continue to involve the balkan countries in the eu accession process.
i supported the report on the common security and defence policy in europe. but i want to draw attention to the fact that this report is not just about evaluating this policy, but it is focused primarily on the future, on development. in my view, this requires more than just the various fair, accurate assessments and wise words which are abundant in this report; the common security and defence policy must be looked at in a different and serious way. i think there are three things that need to be done here. first, the union should define its common strategic interests, for example in energy security and neighbourhood policy. secondly, the union must increase its own capacity for planning and coordinating civilian and military operations as well as crisis management. finally, thirdly, a common budget for common actions should be established within the union budget.
the increasing importance of the increasing interdependence of international actors in the face of economic, environmental or energy problems determines the continuous changes in the external relations of individual countries. security issues are a policy area of particular concern to each country, requiring systematic adaptation to a changing world. the main theme of the report is the call to safeguard the union's strategic autonomy in the field of security and defence. however, it does not take into account the lack of combat experience, while calling for further efforts to expand the operational capabilities of the european union. for countries like poland, the north atlantic alliance remains the foundation of their defence policy. the strengthening of the strategic partnership between the union and nato and the requirement of enhanced mutual support for actions can significantly slow down operational decision-making procedures. all of this makes the report seem to me to be a document with an approach that is too radical, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − with the public and consumers of the european market in mind, we try to simplify as much as possible the rules and procedures so that they are transparent and understandable to every citizen. the same is true of the common agricultural policy, where simplification is the overriding theme in the future shape of this policy, which aims to ensure food security in europe. the harmonisation of the directive on the labelling of foodstuffs is intended to bring the provisions closer to the consumer and to make them easier to understand. at the same time, it shall be carried out in full compliance with the procedures for the adoption of acts in the union, while preserving the original content of the original provisions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of document 2010/0261 on the codification of the permissible noise levels and exhaust systems of motor vehicles. this is another example of the european commission's efforts to simplify and streamline the acquis communautaire so that it is more transparent and accessible to citizens of the community's member states. the legislative proposal harmonises the existing texts to create a more understandable and accessible legal act. the regulation approximates the laws of the member states by laying down technical standards, the purpose of which is to apply the ec type-approval procedure laid down in directive 2007/46/ec to each type of vehicle.
in writing. − the regulation adopted by the european parliament on textile fibre names and labelling of textile products is of particular importance for the textile sector in the european union. it will allow new fibres to be brought to market more quickly, and in particular will help innovative companies in the textile sector to put their research and solutions into practice. the regulation was the subject of a long debate between the european parliament and the council. parliament called for the regulation to be extended to include new elements, in particular the indication of the origin of goods, the indication of the animal origin of fibres and stricter requirements on the use of harmful substances in the manufacture of textile products. parliament succeeded in convincing the council of the need for the clear labelling of fibres of animal origin. this provision is very beneficial in particular for those consumers who suffer from allergies to leather products and for consumers who for ideological reasons do not want to buy textile products containing animal components. i hope that in the near future we will also be able to reach an agreement on the question of the indication of the origin of goods. this issue has been unresolved for too long. i think european businesses and consumers will benefit from clear rules.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i fully support the decision taken today to conclude an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the commission on the 'transparency register'. since 1996, parliament has been running a register for interest groups and can be a model for other institutions in this respect. the european commission only established its lobby register in 2008, while the council of the european union has not yet. a decision taken in the european parliament leads to the merging of the register of lobbyists and interest groups run separately by the two institutions mentioned above. this will help to increase transparency and, above all, make it easier for citizens to access information in one place. the creation of a common register is also beneficial for lobbyists, who only have to register once. the decision also excludes from the 'transparency register' the social partners, churches, political parties and local and regional authorities. in addition, interest groups will be recorded in the explanatory memorandum of a report or recommendation if they have been granted permission to meet with the member on a specific legislative matter. i believe this decision is an important step towards greater transparency and i look forward to the eu council joining the common register.
in writing. - brussels, which some have called the "lobbying mecca" after washington, needs proper regulation and clear rules for cooperation between decision-makers and representatives of the various interest groups. it should be recalled that lobbying understood as the representation of the interests of different social groups is an integral part of modern democratic systems. once again, meps have voiced their support for transparency. a common register of lobbyists will increase the transparency of the eu institutions. it will also distinguish between representatives of pressure groups and representatives of non-governmental and governmental organisations. there is no doubt that interest groups are a platform for exchanging information and an important channel of communication between citizens and the european union. in order to be as effective as possible and to deliver the expected results, this cooperation needs to be regulated and transparent.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! today the european parliament adopted a resolution on eu-japan trade relations. the document draws attention to the fact that the european union and japan are very important trading partners for each other. this takes into account the provisions of the international trade organisation and the fact that japan and the eu, among others, together generated 1⁄4 of the world's gdp in 2009 and the value of trade between these regions was eur 120 billion in 2010. the document also stressed that the eu was fully open to a free trade agreement with japan, but that this would require japan to remove non-tariff barriers and remove any obstacles to the development of cooperation. it also highlighted what i consider to be a very important aspect of this cooperation, the issue of paying attention to environmental protection in the trade process and promoting climate change mitigation and the promotion of environmental and social standards. in addition, attention was drawn to the issue of the recent nuclear disaster, which has not yet been fully contained. the extent of the crisis that has already hit japan cannot therefore be fully assessed yet and there is no need to accelerate the negotiations on a free trade agreement. because what japan needs now is real aid.
in writing. - i strongly support the development of trade cooperation between the european union and japan, which should lead to the conclusion of a bilateral free trade agreement. the fact that the total value of eu-japan trade agreements in 2010 was €120 billion is a testament to the importance of the two partners to each other. japan is the eu's sixth largest trading partner, while the eu is japan's third. both sides are also important investors, with foreign direct investment amounting to eur 200 billion in 2009. it is also worth noting that the rapid economic growth of the bric countries, the economic slowdown resulting from the global financial crisis, and the urgent need to access raw materials and renewable energy are very important challenges shared by both actors, which makes the negotiations even more urgent. in their opinion on the project, both the council and the commission stated that the opening of negotiations was conditional upon japan's removal of regulatory barriers to trade, in particular non-tariff barriers, which constitute a significant barrier to access to the japanese market for european businesses. i believe that the procedures at the highest decision-making level should be accelerated, which would lead to closer trade relations between these two strategic partners.
in writing. − japan's willingness to open bilateral talks on a free trade area with the european union is an opportunity to develop closer political relations and to increase economic benefits for both the eu and japan. given that japan is only the sixth largest trading partner of the european union, the potential for japan's trade and investment cooperation with the community remains untapped. non-tariff barriers are the main obstacle that makes it very difficult for european companies to access the japanese market. as a member of the tran commission, i am convinced that the aviation industry is one in which cooperation at commercial level and in research and development would be mutually beneficial for both the european and japanese economies. i believe that the aeronautics sector can become one of the model examples of cooperation between the community and japan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report on the main aspects of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in 2009. it is a well-written report of crucial importance, which discusses in detail aspects of the common foreign and security policy. i am particularly pleased that the report contains the amendment i proposed concerning georgia. i wanted to emphasise the importance of continuing and consistent political pressure on russia to implement all the provisions of the 2008 agreement, including, in particular, to allow access to the occupied territories for the eumm. i hope that high representative catherine ashton will consider our recommendations.
in writing. − recent developments in north africa and asia highlight the need to strengthen the european union's foreign policy and the alliances in which it participates. the continued threat of terrorist attacks indicates the need to strengthen european security standards. however, some of the provisions proposed in the report by mr roberto gualtieri are unacceptable. they are at odds with the strategy of international alliances that has been built up to date, based mainly on the leading role of the north atlantic alliance. the proposed strengthening of the european defence agency would not actually mean strengthening eu security, but only the development of another bureaucratic monster incapable of carrying out the tasks assigned to it. who would decide on the use of european armed forces? whose interests would her units pursue? what voice would the new european states have? would the seat of the eao change? institutional concerns also arise: would the development of the eeas lead to a reduction in the armies of some european countries and would it conflict with the remit and objectives of the european external action service? as previous reports have shown, despite the considerable financial burden and the very good logistics and management, european forces are not doing well in simple police missions in kosovo and bosnia. let's think about how to improve their performance before we want to elevate their responsibilities to military action.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament adopted a resolution on the role of the european union in multilateral organisations. the general principle adopted is to strengthen the eu's role in the multilateral system. through agreements and joint action, the european union is becoming a model for the functioning of a world order based on international law. the need for the eu to work with the prime regions and to play an active part in shaping the international environment was therefore underlined. in addition, cooperation between member states and a common position, including on budgetary savings and cuts, is necessary. as regards the eu's role in the un system, the eu and its member states are called upon to step up their role and strengthen their position (change in support for the un, particularly in terms of policy and humanitarian assistance and conflict resolution). in cooperation with international financial institutions, the eu must find a solution to the external economic and financial representation problem that limits the eu's influence. on the eu's role in multilateral security organisations, it was felt that the rules that allow the eu to use nato assets should be improved. the eu-osce agreement should consider the eu taking on greater responsibility and more effective action in pursuit of common objectives (joint dialogue, joint action and coordination, etc.).
in writing. - the international situation has been changing rapidly in recent times. the growing economic importance of asia, revolutionary movements in africa, the increased threat of terrorism, the need to build common, sustainable european raw materials strategies and the increasing prevalence of human rights violations are just some of the problems facing eu diplomacy today. as practice shows, in many cases it is helpless. the european union's foreign policy seems to be ill-conceived and poorly coordinated. moreover, the idea of a common sustainable european policy often fails to meet the interests of the largest countries of the so-called 'old' union. the absence of a geographical equality rule for the recruitment of the european external action service is a perfect illustration of this. this system needs to change. that is why i did not support the report by mrs maria muñiz de urquiza. i believe that it indicates the important conditions that the union and the member states must fulfil in order to be able to better fulfil the tasks set out in the lisbon treaty. but we should not seek to replace nato with a new eu army, but rather focus on a proper division of responsibilities in times of international crises. the eu could play a role in humanitarian aid, with the north atlantic alliance coordinating military aid. such a division of tasks could also allow for a strengthening of cooperation with the eu's most important trade and military partner, the united states of america.
a law that is too complex, too unclear, too rigorous, too unchangeable is clearly not conducive to development or progress, and that is why, as coordinator of the legal affairs committee, i would like to draw particular attention to the importance in the legislative process of respecting the principle of inclusion in the impact assessment, both ex ante and post ante, a test for small and medium-sized enterprises which, already at the stage of legislative enactment, makes it possible to identify and eliminate the obstacles that new legislation may pose to a sector which is, after all, the driving force of the european economy. similarly, the 'think small first' or 'only once' approaches, or the limitation of the overly rigorous transposition of eu directives into national law, of course by the member states' authorities, lead to a significant reduction in the administrative burden on the sme sector. both the work of the stoiber group and the european commission's review of the small business act confirm that administrative hurdles and excessive burdens of controls often hamper, and sometimes even prevent, the further development of small businesses that have the potential to generate new jobs. i therefore consider it appropriate to ask whether the analysis of the reduction of the administrative burden to 25% promised by the commission is already available. i also agree with the conclusions that these principles should be the guiding principles for both the eu institutions and the member states when creating new legislation or revising existing legislation. it is worrying that the implementation of the small business act faces many obstacles in the member states, although - as examples from some countries show - the implementation of these rules is producing positive results. finally, i would also like to draw attention to the importance of the work already under way on european contract law and the work being undertaken in the legal affairs committee on the creation of a european patent protection system. good regulation in this area will certainly give a direct boost to the development of innovation, especially in the area of the operation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
the ongoing work on the revision of the small business act should focus in particular on the establishment of a european private company statute, thereby facilitating cross-border operations of economic operators on the union market. although the time to start a business has decreased in recent months, an analysis by the european commission shows that more than half of the member states still do not meet the requirement of being able to start a business within three days. in addition, most member states still do not assess the impact of future legislative and administrative initiatives on smes. they don't fully apply the only once rule either. the list of countries where business can be definitively closed during the year has remained unchanged over the past two years. i therefore suggest that the european commission should be even more involved in the efforts to ensure that member states implement these provisions. in addition, i believe that further action under the small business act should also include improving the availability of finance, access to venture capital markets, the development of single points of contact in the member states to facilitate administrative procedures. it is worth noting that in order to reach the 75% employment target under strategy 2020, it is necessary to support smes, which, due to the economic crisis, instead of generating jobs, are facing a number of additional costs.
, in writing. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises play a central and most important role in the development of the european economy, are a major source of employment and have a fundamental impact on the development of european competitiveness and innovation. we can say with full responsibility that we will not achieve the europe 2020 objectives without supporting smes and making it easier for them to take full advantage of the single market. the solutions provided for in the small business act, such as reducing red tape, improving access to finance and facilitating market entry, are particularly important and, in my view, effective measures to create the best possible conditions for the development of smes. however, the effectiveness of these solutions may be jeopardised by problems with their implementation at member state level. i therefore hope that member states which have not yet fully implemented these measures will do their utmost to complete this process as soon as possible.
mr president, our duty is to look for the best solutions to cope with the crisis, to which end the learning process is of great value. my feeling is that we have learned why things went wrong and how we got ourselves into the difficult situation we are in today, but my feeling is also that now we are less open to drawing lessons from the evolving reality. in this context, i would like to raise two issues. first, we can see great similarities between member states with regard to public debts and deficit ratios, while at the same time, for the same member states, there are substantial differences between the risk premiums paid on their sovereign debt. in my view this is clear proof that factors other than sovereign debt enter into the picture and influence markets. among other things, it is foreign debt or excessive external imbalances on which markets have focused, and this clearly means that in responding to the situation we must go beyond fiscal adjustment. the second issue is related to the fact that those economies that are the most strongly affected by the crisis have to cope with a combination of high risk premiums and severe austerity measures. this double challenge makes achieving debt sustainability practically impossible. if we reject debt restructuring then we need a better balance between punishment and assistance and the design of response packages which would make it possible to avoid pushing countries further into a debt trap.
in the context of the current economic crisis in europe, employment agencies have a particularly important role to play. so it is worthwhile to take a closer look at the effectiveness of their activities. there is no doubt that these agencies should help europeans to acquire skills that they can use in a rapidly changing and increasingly competitive labour market. they should therefore take measures which, first, will increase flexibility in the european labour market through, for example, the mutual recognition of workers' qualifications between member states. secondly, the agencies should actively participate in the development of such programmes which take into account the economic and social challenges facing the european union, including the demographic crisis and the overburdening of the pension system. finally, they should carry out studies that highlight the real problems facing the european labour market. in conclusion, the main focus of the employment agencies should be to help the citizens of the european union in the light of the economic and demographic crisis.
mr. chairman, please! as co-rapporteur on cooperation in vocational education and training, i follow the activities of the european centre for the development of vocational training with particular attention. linking vocational training to the needs of citizens and the labour market is one of the key elements of increasing employment and increasing the competitiveness of the european union. the role of cedefop cannot therefore be underestimated. the 2010 report has confirmed my belief in the effectiveness of cedefop. this is demonstrated, among other things, by the steadily increasing number of people using its publications and the europass portal. however, i believe it is important to increase cedefop's involvement in structural actions for vocational training, including the introduction of a system for evaluating the effectiveness of training. i also think the agency has a great potential to make an attractive offer.
i think that agencies that are effective in the field of labour market, in the field of employment, are extremely important. of course, we have to account for the agencies' performance. let us remember that one third of the citizens of the european union have no vocational qualifications. the issues of monitoring the employment sector, labour market potential and vocational training are a vast body of knowledge that cannot be measured today by a single member state. we should therefore be able to judge the performance of the agencies, but we should also be aware that the performance of these agencies can have an incredible impact on the labour market and on the linking of vocational training with jobs and future professions, which are becoming scarce in the european union today. we have to import a lot of narrowly specialized jobs: doctors, nurses. these are the problems facing the european union, and we should appreciate the effectiveness of these agencies.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − mr president, i would say to the commissioner that, in recent years, innovation has become a symbol of a policy instrument that can fix all our problems. this means that there are huge expectations and that we must deliver. of course, for a successful implementation of ideas, governance matters very strongly and a governance framework for innovation must be based today on pragmatism and must be delivered with a sense of urgency, and also must be at the service of the policy content. europe, we all agree, has to innovate or it will lose out to competitors. every link in the european innovation chain must be strengthened and innovation policy must be focused towards challenges. that is what i understand the innovation union is offering. today we run the risk that, not only companies, but also governments might decrease investment in innovation. that is the logic of the crisis and the logic of national budget cuts. eu policy responses and eu budgetary instruments must move firmly against that logic. in europe, innovation is not just a concept that can be limited to specific innovation centres. it needs to be applied across the entire european territory. europe is simply too small to afford an innovation deficit anywhere on its territory. research and innovation are clearly not the same thing and we agree with you very clearly. governance for innovation should therefore do more than just support research and development policy. promoting innovation-led growth is not about increasing excellence in r&d infrastructure, important as they are, it is first and foremost about mobilising talents and mobilising new ideas. governance for innovation must mean establishing new partnerships enabling efficient innovation systems that mobilise intellectual and entrepreneurial capacities, detecting also sleeping innovators – of which we have many in europe – through a business environment that is conducive to innovation, and particularly for smes, covering all sectors of the economy. to conclude, let me say that we do not yet have a fully-fledged european model for innovation, but what is clear is that it must be rooted in a well-orchestrated, concrete, strong and joint public/private effort. i trust that the innovation union will take us all the way forward towards such a model.
madam president! of course, we are all for innovation, especially in science, industry, and i say this not only as a politician, but also as a university worker, because before i became a politician, i was a university lecturer. but it's just that, actually, we've had this happen a couple of times in this room, and we're losing this innovation race to countries like the united states and the far east. it therefore asks that our cooperation in innovation be extended to non-european countries. i am very pleased that my amendment (it has paragraph 167 here) was accepted, which calls for cooperation with the eastern partnership countries, and i hope that paragraph 71 will be interpreted in the same way, which, while it refers to the mediterranean countries, should be extended to all the countries of the european neighbourhood policy.
in my speech in november here in strasbourg, i pointed out the great disparity between the old and the new countries of the european union in the financial support for the research and development sector. in the long term, this leads to significant disparities in the development of individual european community countries and to the ill-deservedly named 'brain drain' phenomenon, which is mistakenly referred to in the report as intellectual mobility. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources, such as the renewable energy programme, the renewable energy research programme and the renewable energy research programme. it is also worth encouraging individual governments to increase the budget allocated annually to research, as well as to establish a minimum percentage threshold of the budget that must be used for such projects. it is also crucial to finance innovation in the sme sector. we should put a lot of emphasis on that.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the members who took part in the debate. i think everybody here agrees that we need to improve the conditions for innovation. most of the speakers talked about jobs. that is what innovation union is all about. it is about taking the very basic blue-sky research that we do so well in the european union, and translating it all the way to the marketplace so that we provide the jobs here, and they are not provided abroad. a number of speakers raised the role of the regions. this is really important and we need to develop synergies between research and innovation funding, on the one hand, and structural funds, on the other. indeed, ms merkies underlines that point in her report. all the regions of europe should play to their strengths. i will go in a couple of weeks’ time to debrecen, in hungary, to the ‘week of innovative regions of europe’ conference, where all the regions will come together to talk about the concept of smart specialisation. some of the less advanced regions can obviously gain from the networking and know-how that is fostered by research and innovation programmes, while of course using structural funds to build up the research infrastructure facilities that they require. mr van nistelrooij raised the matter of the innovation convention, and i would like to say that this is well advanced. as part of the preparation, we have invited mr reul, the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy, to talk about the committee’s representation at the heart of the innovation convention. obviously, we have also invited representatives of the member state governments, business leaders, stakeholders of all kinds, policymakers and so on. we think this is very important because one of the things i consider essential in relation to innovation is that we should have a ‘living document’: in other words, that we will have the opportunity on a regular basis – in parliament, internationally at the innovation convention and also at heads of state and government level – to monitor progress and to insist, where the progress is slow, on speeding it up. that is very important if this initiative is going to be successful, to create the kind of jobs we want and to deliver what we expect it to deliver at the end of the day.
, in writing. innovation, competitiveness, sustainability, creativity, efficiency - these are all beautiful words that fit perfectly into the trends in politics, the economy and the labour market. but are there concrete actions, real projects, behind them? such words certainly make a positive impression on the listener, help to promote the ideals presented and win over followers. but let us not forget that behind these slogans there must be practical actions, legislative decisions and laws that actually help to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the potential of europe and europeans is immense, and it is our task to create the right conditions for its full exploitation.
, in writing. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i support the innovation union initiative. i would like to emphasise the role of education, vocational training and social research (to combat poverty and social exclusion) in this initiative. it is important to simplify the administrative procedures for the submission of applications for eu research and innovation programmes in order to increase the participation of enterprises and scientific institutions. simplified procedures will also ensure a more efficient and effective use of public funds and reduce administrative burdens. innovation policy should go hand in hand with training, vocational training and labour market policies. the new products and services are intended to increase employment and to help forecast future trends and skills requirements in the labour market. given that women represent only 30% of european researchers and only 13% of the heads of european research institutions, i call for the innovation union initiative to include further guidelines for a more balanced representation of women and men in scientific disciplines. i also call for their effective implementation by the member states.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to focus my attention on the cultural dimension of external action in this report by mrs schaake. i would like to say that there are a number of points in this report which merit our support and congratulations, namely that paragraph 17 condemns totalitarian regimes which use censorship, and paragraph 50 opposes the use of cultural arguments to justify human rights violations, when we have problems in exploiting this alleged diversity, for example in our relations with china. encourages the involvement of civil society in paragraph 39, stresses the importance of democratic freedoms and fundamental human rights. in all these respects, the report deserves support and praise. we have also succeeded in removing from the report, in the course of the work of the committee on culture, the requirement to appoint a special eu ambassador exclusively for culture. and these are the successes. but unfortunately there are also some things that are, i would say, troubling, i.e. unfortunately at the meetings of the culture committee the minutes were changed, which said that it was a question of appointing a person responsible only for cultural matters. that's something to consider. and secondly, this report calls for additional training of the staff of the european external action service in the field of cultural and digital policies. we in the committee on culture wanted this provision not to increase the costs in this area, but unfortunately this amendment has failed. the report is therefore simply ambivalent.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests from thuringia in the visitors' gallery! mr president, to my colleague who is afraid of educated young people moving to another state, i would say that civilization grows and develops when people move, and we should not be afraid of that. it happens wherever people from different countries meet and bring together their various experiences: the examples of this in europe are very numerous and it is good that we have so much to say about mobility. this mobility will guarantee continued health and prosperity for europe. mr zver's report draws attention to numerous barriers that act as disincentives to mobility in europe, and i would like to highlight some of them. to take up what mr løkkegaard briefly mentioned, it is really not acceptable that young people who are studying, training or working abroad should encounter difficulties, when they move, with the most basic tasks such as accessing banking services or renting an apartment. what is more, they are penalized by roaming charges when they try to telephone home or access the internet and search online for basic, necessary information. data roaming is extremely expensive. the commission has proposed introducing a mobility scoreboard as part of the youth on the move initiative. this will allow systematic monitoring of member states' progress in dismantling barriers. the scoreboard should be comprehensive and straightforward so that it can serve as a real catalyst to member states removing those obstacles. this would benefit both old and young, students and workers. i call on the commission to present a detailed proposal on how this mobility scoreboard will be operated, and i hope it will do so as soon as possible. in conclusion, mobility is a horizontal issue and i therefore urge my colleagues on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and also on other committees not to lose sight of the mobility dimension in their work in all areas.
the elements in mrs schaake's report which speak of the need to increase the mobility of young people from the neighbouring countries are very important. while i do not think that the european union needs to be too involved in cultural activities in the member states, it is important that the european union, with its cultural message, its message of democracy and the rule of law, should appeal to the young elites of the neighbouring countries to find money for youth exchanges, for joint studies, trips, the creation of universities and the support of curricula. there are such programmes in the member states, e.g. in poland eastern european studies at the university of warsaw. we must take a lesson from this and it is very good that mrs schaake is leading the way today. without it, nothing will work.
today's debate is one of the most important and serious debates in the european parliament. it concerns the whole cultural and educational sector, the foundation on which our great european home is built. we must remember and we must take this discussion very seriously, remembering that not everything is given to us forever. we must know that this great european house, if it is to be strong, must have a strong foundation, must be resilient to the next potential crises and perhaps the great changes that, without excluding them, may be waiting for us. so i wanted to thank all the rapporteurs for these very good reports, both mr. zvero and mrs. honeyball, because for the first time we are looking at education in a comprehensive way. we want to give great, broad skills to all of our children, from the earliest years to the college level. today, if we want european society to be mobile, if we want young people to be open, sensitive and competent, we must take a responsible approach to the whole field of education, and our indicators are appallingly bad. one third of europeans have no vocational qualifications. as regards the cultural dimension, i would like to thank the commissioner for the fact that the european external action service will have ambassadors, cultural attaches, in all the countries of the world. i would like to thank mrs sanchez-schmid because supporting culture is first and foremost supporting the business side of culture, but first and foremost supporting the spiritual side, which is why cultural projects must have administrative support, they require the de-bureaucratisation of systems, but also support from capital and eu funds. this is our common mission and i would therefore like to ask the commissioner to report this serious and important discussion to the council, which is not present today, so that the council can also take up these great tasks for europe.
the 'youth on the move' programme is one of the most important initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy. we need to promote economic growth based on advanced technologies that only educated people can create. we must provide appropriate support for children and young people: foreign language teaching, sports, cultural activities, volunteering, youth exchanges these are programmes that should be available to children and young people in all regions of the european union. we must improve and equalise educational standards at all levels of education, from nursery to university, in every region of the european union. according to professor jacek kochanowicz, the lack of capacity for cooperation is one of the biggest problems for poland's development and the european union we must change this too. human capital comes from education, social capital comes from trust between people. investing in educational programs, cultural... (the chairman withdrew the member's speech.)
the work on the creation of a european framework for early childhood education based on common goals and values points in the right direction towards the harmonisation of education systems. emphasising the importance of the early years of life in later human development and the potential of early childhood is of paramount importance in the context of the implementation of the 2020 strategy. i find this subject to be extremely topical. this month, my country passed a law that allows for child care for children under the age of three. the new law extends the range of facilities by introducing new forms of care, i.e. children's clubs, day nurses, legal nannies and crèches. these changes are designed to create a favourable environment for the proper development of the child. the diversity of the educational offer allows us to support and stimulate this development in all areas, using the inherent potential. the creation of crèches will make it easier for parents to return to the labour market after a long break. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
, in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the cultural dimension of the eu's external action is an important and much-needed one. in general, european culture is perceived in the world as attractive and desirable. it is more difficult to get people to accept european values. working in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i have experienced many cultural differences and their effects. as europeans, we regularly strive to promote values and principles that are fundamental and indispensable to us. and quite often, this is misunderstood by our partners. some of them see this as a form of cultural imperialism. that is why it is so difficult to convince our partners that the values promoted by the european union are not an attempt to impose our way of thinking on others. our efforts to promote our ideals, for example, in the field of human rights, are simply motivated by a moral imperative. we respect difference and diversity, but we can't give up on the principles we've come to believe are fundamental. we will not accept discrimination, we will not give up the protection of human life and dignity. the union is united and consistent on this issue.
, in writing. support for the mobility of young people, especially from the eastern partnership countries and the union for the mediterranean, is particularly important in the context of recent developments in belarus and north africa. the democratic transition processes now under way in egypt and tunisia can be strengthened by eu efforts to educate their citizens in the spirit of democracy and respect for the rule of law and human rights. educated citizens are the greatest enemy of dictators and totalitarian regimes. the experience of eu member states can be used to organise such programmes. for example, in poland there is a programme named after konstantin kalinowski, which is implemented by the studium europy wschodniej of the university of warsaw, among others, an international institution that enables students from the east and the balkans to study in poland. the union should also step up efforts to establish an eastern partnership university, modelled on the euro-mediterranean university in slovenia. the eu should support initiatives by young and capable people to promote its policies. a good example of this is the eastbook.eu portal, whose founders are already informing thousands of internet users daily about events in the eastern partnership countries and the progress of the programme. the eu should also support study trips of young people from member states to neighbouring countries. it helps to break down cultural barriers. the eurobus initiative , an annual tour of ukraine by young people from eu countries, is commendable.
, in writing. fellow students and colleagues! the adoption last june of the eu's new strategy 'europe 2020' is intended to help the eu emerge from the economic crisis and develop further. this is also an important step towards maintaining and even increasing the mobility of young people. one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is 'youth on the move', an initiative to improve the performance of education systems and facilitate the entry of young people into the labour market. this objective is to be achieved by developing the idea of youth exchanges and the acquisition of new skills by young people. statistics show that as many as 15% of young people are now leaving school early, thus acquiring qualifications that do not meet the needs of the labour market. in addition, only about one third of the population has a university degree, a much lower percentage than in the united states or japan, for example. one of the major challenges facing the european union is therefore to focus particular attention and funding on these two problems. however, the situation will not improve unless both the commission and the member states implement the guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy. youth mobility is one of the keys to europe's future development and if we aspire to be the world's most innovative economy, we cannot ignore investing in human capital, especially young people.
, in writing. in a time of economic crisis, when some member states are cutting back on investment in education and training, i am pleased that parliament is adopting a report on the 'youth on the move' programme today. in recent years, young people have been the ones most affected by the crisis. the unemployment rate among young people in the eu has exceeded 20%, twice that of adults, and in some member states it is as high as 40%. budget cuts have a direct impact on the prospects and development opportunities of young people. the knowledge and skills of young people are essential for achieving smart and sustainable development. the 'youth on the move' programme, the flagship initiative of the 'europe 2020' strategy, should aim to make higher education in europe more attractive, to improve the quality of education and to increase the mobility of students and staff. this initiative enables young people to acquire the knowledge, skills and competences they need in their work and in their lives. these priorities and objectives will not be fully realised and achieved unless the eu provides long-term financial support in its budget. that is why it is so important that this programme receives a high level of funding, while at the same time not forgetting the importance of its continued promotion and a proper information policy.
, in writing. the ep calls for concrete action: the european commission to recognise the creative sector as one of the most productive parts of the eu economy and thus give its development absolute priority. to this end, we want to increase the possibility of financing the creative sector from the eu budget as a pillar of smart growth. it is possible to create synergies between eu cultural support programmes, such as culture 2007-13, with existing eu research programmes (such as the eu's 8th framework programme for technological development), or to expand the scope for spending money from existing funds (such as the european social fund). in parallel, we recommend encouraging the emergence of new innovative financial instruments (bank guarantees, repayable advances and smart loans) that would make it easier for creators and creative smes to launch their ventures. money, of course, is not everything. we call for, among other things, the strengthening of cooperation between the cultural and creative sectors and european universities, the increase in the number of specialist training courses for young people and the mobility of all cultural creators and people. to this end, we intend to create a multilingual online platform that would serve to exchange experiences between creators and, consequently, to create an even closer network of links between all those for whom the development of the creative industries in europe is important.
yesterday afternoon, an earthquake struck the spanish province of murcia. at least eight people were killed. many were injured. three hours ago, vice president martínez martínez was talking about this. on behalf of the european parliament, i offer my condolences to the families of the victims. we wish all the injured a speedy recovery. we also admire the immediate response and effort of the residents who have been involved in the rescue operation. i'm sending a letter of condolence to the spanish authorities in this matter.
i'm gonna ask everyone to stand up. a minute of silence.
fellow workers! written declaration no 3 of 2011 by ms romana jordan cizelj, ms ana gomes, ms corinne lepage, ms radvilė morkūnaitė-mikulėnienė and mr indrek taranda on the 'cleanup in europe' and 'let's do it world 2012' initiatives was signed by a majority of meps. it will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at this part-session, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes, in accordance with rule 123. as far as i know, mrs. romana jordan cizelj wanted to say something about that. - there you go.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
european programmes to support young people need unquestionable support. the people who make up the future of our continent are also the most vulnerable. we must ensure that they have access to proper education, cultural resources and, above all, the opportunity to learn foreign languages and the freedom to choose their place of education. not everyone has the money or the means to provide for themselves. the positive results of many youth programmes, such as erasmus and leonardo da vinci, demonstrate that this is a worthwhile investment. the greatest need for support is among young people in rural areas, who often have no financial means to start their studies and no opportunities to start work outside of farming in their area of residence.
i am very pleased that the 'youth on the move' initiative is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy. i am also pleased that the report voted on today has recognised the importance of non-formal education, understood as education through participation in youth organisations, ngos and through volunteering. i believe that non-formal education helps young people to become active citizens, teaches teamwork, helps to develop individual interests and, very importantly, gives better chances of finding a job.
madam president! children are our future. they are the ones who will create a future european society with a conscience, which is why it is so important to start early. we need to instill positive values and proper moral standards in our children from an early age. education should be based on good, solid foundations and be delivered by appropriately trained and prepared teachers. we need to work towards equality of opportunity so that every child, whether they come from the city or the countryside, whether they come from a rich or a poor family, has access to early learning. in the process of equal opportunities, we should pay particular attention to rural environments, where children have much less access to educational and cultural facilities.
faster growth, productivity, efficiency and increased competitiveness are the best mechanisms to combat economic problems. to achieve these objectives, joint action on innovation is needed. it is important to focus on the creativity of citizens, for example by giving workers the freedom to come up with ideas for improving the working process. consumption is also a driver of innovation, and the iphone applications developed by european consumers are a concrete example of how citizens' creativity and their desire to use modern technologies are combined. an important element of the innovation union is the strengthening of the knowledge base by bringing together businesses, research institutions and citizens. this will require the full involvement of public and local authorities. the fundamental objective of innovation is to maintain a high level of prosperity in europe. i hope that the proposed joint actions will help to support the innovation process and contribute to economic stability. i therefore support this report.
i voted for the report by the innovation union. innovation is, of course, the key to europe's development. however, i believe that it is absolutely fundamental to promote innovation, particularly in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, especially in the new member states of the european union, which are far behind in this respect. it is in this sector - as it appears from numerous analyses - that the future competitiveness of the european economy vis-à-vis other major world economies will be decided. and it is worth remembering as research conducted by ernst & young shows that three quarters of the applications for research and purchase of new technologies submitted by small businesses in europe are unfortunately rejected by banks. the financing is a serious problem and we should therefore encourage the member states to support small and medium-sized enterprises in this area. without this support, they will not be able to cope with the increasing competition in the global economy.
i supported an interesting and comprehensive report on the transformation of europe after the global crisis. i did so in the hope that the direction proposed in the report would reduce the growing disparities in the development of individual countries in the union and that it would weaken the so-called 'brain drain', which the report, i think, too politely calls intellectual mobility. to ensure europe's sustainable development, we must therefore devote more resources to developing innovation and research projects in the new countries of the european union. governments should be encouraged to establish a minimum percentage threshold of the budget that must be spent on a research and development project, in addition to increasing the budget allocated annually to research. however, the emphasis on r & d should not in any way limit the current priorities of the european union, such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy, in the future budgetary agenda. they are doing their job well.
the cultural heritage of european countries is a value in itself. although culturally diverse, the member states already have a global brand that attracts citizens from other countries who are ready to benefit from the cultural heritage. the political and economic power of the european union can be enhanced by promoting its identity and cultural value. new technologies play an important role in the field of culture, and they also promote the realisation of fundamental human rights. particularly in countries that are enslaved by censorship, civic activity and access to information is maintained through the network. the union must therefore promote internet freedom on the global stage, making a significant contribution to the cultural development and awareness of closed societies. the young generation also needs a coherent mobility strategy to increase its development in the fields of science and culture. i support cultural diplomacy, and the work of parliamentary delegations can also contribute to this. that is why i voted for this report.
the statements and comments in the report are extremely valuable and timely. i would like to refer in particular to the statements which indicate that the european union is committed to taking action worldwide to promote respect for freedom of speech, freedom of the press and free access to audiovisual media. it is also very timely to call on the european commission to promote internet freedom worldwide in the face of the threats we are reading and hearing about more and more. while i am pleased to see that we are remembering these values which are fundamental to us as europeans, i must admit that i voted with some sadness on this report. i am aware that we sometimes forget these fundamental values in the world, and we forget that they are also being violated in some of the member states of the european union. an example of this is what is happening in poland with journalists who are critical of the government. they are being removed en masse from public media, and government officials are trying to liquidate the independent, private daily newspaper "rzeczpospolita", which is the second largest major daily in poland, critical, to say the least, of the government's line. this too must be opposed.
i supported an interesting report on the cultural dimension of the european union's external action. how can we not support the record of the eu's actions around the world to respect freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free access to audiovisual media, etc. however, i have the impression that we care too much about the situation outside the union and not enough about the standards within the union, for example in poland, because it was in poland that the mass dismissal of journalists and the liquidation of programs owned by them, which were united by a common criticism of the current reality, began after the current ruling coalition gained power in the public media. and for example, people like jacek sobala, anita gargas, jacek karnowski or wojciech leszczyński were fired from their jobs. joanna lichocka, tomasz sakiewicz, rafał ziemkiewicz, jan pospieszalski, grzegorz górny, tomasz terlikowski, bronisław wildstein, wojciech cejrowski - these are just some of the many examples of journalists who have been deprived of their programs. the suppression of freedom of speech in poland is a disgrace to the entire european union.
in writing. - colleagues, the issue of education and training systems is now taking on a completely different and new meaning than it was even a dozen or so years ago. the need to improve the situation in this area seems undeniable, given the disparities in education levels across europe. it is important that young people have the opportunity to participate actively in the workplace as well as in civil society at large. i am very much involved and supportive of both the 'youth in action' programme and the 'european volunteering' which is one of the actions of the programme. i therefore believe it is important that the european parliament should be able to continue to support such activities. in this day and age, we must not forget young people, we must give them the chance to develop, help them to find new skills in an economy that is increasingly international. 'youth on the move' is not only an opportunity to activate young people to act, to work, but above all it is a way of overcoming their own limits, their own weaknesses and a chance to develop. that is why i voted for the report by milan zver. thank you, sir.
in writing. − i supported the report on improving european education and training systems. i'm in favor of extending all youth education programs. in addition to youth on the move, financial and political support should be provided for programmes such as erasmus, leonardo da vinci, comenius, grundtvig, youth in action and marie curie. these programmes have been very successful in the union. they involve a large number of young people from different backgrounds (the number of polish students who left for erasmus between 1998 and 2010 was 93 807), and they contribute to developing their potential and to creating a strong european civil society. these are very efficient programmes with very low unit costs and high utilisation rates. promoting youth mobility requires overcoming practical barriers. around one third of erasmus students experienced difficulties due to the uncertainty of the study abroad system and the lack of coherence, continuity between the subjects of study in the home country and abroad. the aim should be to ensure that both time and qualifications acquired in other eu countries are recognised. other issues that need to be addressed include obtaining visas, medical documents in different languages and transferring grants while abroad. disabled people face even greater obstacles to mobility than healthy people. additional mechanisms should be put in place to ensure a level playing field.
in writing. - i supported the report on early childhood education in the eu. i would like to draw particular attention to three points. first, the early years of childhood are crucial to a child's mental, emotional, and physical development. therefore, member states need to take into account a range of different issues affecting child development, such as health, migration, gender equality and employment, when developing comprehensive strategies and action programmes. secondly, the local level should develop implementation programmes that take account of the different living conditions and needs in early childhood education and care. they must also have sufficient autonomy to be able to implement children's programmes independently and creatively. another issue is the improvement of the quality of early childhood education and care services. this is where the development of mechanisms for evaluating and monitoring service delivery and compliance should start. my final point is about universal access to child care. according to the ministry of education, there are 8,400 public and 1,600 private kindergartens in poland, and there are about 1,6 million children aged 3-6 years. so the nursery school is only able to accommodate 40 percent of them. in poland, there are 352 day-care centres, and only 2% of the youngest children use them. this problem is one of the main causes of high unemployment among women.
in writing. − despite the openness of the eu's public procurement market, access to third countries' public procurement markets remains largely restricted. in this situation, european companies have no chance of competing on a global level in public procurement. for example, in 2009, the chinese authorities adopted a system of accreditation for local innovative products, which further restricted the access of international companies to the chinese market. but it's not just the chinese market that's a problem, it's also the highly developed economies like the united states, japan and canada, which are all using protectionist policies. i therefore support the call for the principle of reciprocity in access to public procurement markets, contained in the resolution voted today and which i supported in the opinion i prepared for the committee on international trade. however, i would like the european commission's future proposal on the principle of reciprocity to contribute primarily to the opening up of third country procurement markets, rather than merely restricting access to public procurement markets in the european union for third country companies, which could have a negative impact on competitiveness on the eu market.
in writing. - the resolution expresses parliament's concern about the state of fisheries, the financial situation of fishermen and the price of fish on the market. it's an important sector and an important part of the diet. the third point in the draft report, which is of crucial importance to me, is the desire to increase the subsidies for fishermen. this is more favourable than the proposed new guarantees for the sector. i hope that the commission and the council will take this resolution seriously.
in writing. − as a representative of the epp political group, i participated in the work and negotiations on the late payments directive, which is one of the key legislative proposals announced in the original small business act. i hope that the member states will do their utmost to implement its provisions as quickly and correctly as possible. the small business act is a good proposition for small and medium-sized businesses. however, i have doubts about the quality of the measures taken. as an example, i would like to cite the annex to the review prepared by the european commission. this annex contains examples of good practice, including the establishment of operational single points of contact by 22 member states in the common market section. these points, i would remind you, were established under the services directive. this parliament adopted a report on the implementation of the services directive only three months ago, where we point out above all that the contact points are not fully operational, in most cases they do not allow formalities to be completed electronically and do not operate as expected by businesses. i hope that the identification of single points of contact, which are good examples, will be followed by a greater mobilisation to improve their functioning so that they can actually serve smes.
in writing. − europe is the cradle of a rich and diverse culture. the european union should use this heritage to promote integration and cooperation in countries outside the european community. let's not forget that the european union is made up of 27 different countries. it is important that we nurture this multiculturalism. i agree that a common european policy requires a coherent strategy for cultural external action. it is important that europe exploits its potential in the process of promoting itself in the world.
in writing. - i welcome the inclusion of cultural issues in eu diplomacy. it is important that the world can experience the culture of the member states in its diversity of content and form. i personally expect this presentation to be geographically balanced, i.e. to find the right proportions of the presence of the culture of each member state. to this end, the commission should present a draft concept of such actions, which will be developed into an official document.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the cultural dimension of the eu's external action. in particular, i stress the need to review existing programmes in the field of culture and to develop a green paper and a commission communication setting out concrete guidelines on the role of culture in the eu's external action. at present, cultural cooperation between member states and third countries is mainly bilateral. there is no common coordinated approach and action, which prevents the effective use of europe's cultural resources and the union's creative potential. the common strategy can help to develop europe's cultural heritage, to establish and deepen social relations, to exchange good practices and to enhance the eu's cultural standing on the international stage. i am strongly in favour of including cultural aspects in the external action service (eeas) draft organisation chart. it is also important to ensure that the eeas staff receive appropriate training on cultural and digital aspects. culture is also an essential element in the fight for human rights and the promotion of democracy. cooperation in this field shall foster dialogue with societies of different cultures. i am also a supporter of the so-called 'cultural brand europe', whose development and promotion, in areas such as talent promotion, tourism and the promotion of universal values, should be based on closer cooperation between eu countries.
in writing. − today in the european parliament we voted on the report on the potential of the creative industries, which clearly demonstrates that the creative industries are responsible for 5 million jobs in the eu and for generating almost 3% of the eu's gdp. the creative industries have a substantial impact on every sector of the eu economy, instilling innovation wherever it can be found, without which it is difficult to talk about improving the eu's international competitiveness, which we all want so much.
in writing. − as a member of the culture and education committee delegation to sarajevo, i support the city's candidacy for european capital of culture in 2014. sarajevo deserves a chance to show its enormous potential. his multiculturalism is unique. sarajevo is surrounded by an atmosphere of multiculturalism and europeanism. it is the only city in the world where you can find temples of five religions in one square kilometer: there are mosques, a roman catholic cathedral, an orthodox church, a synagogue and an evangelical church. the bosnians, on the other hand, are known for their warmth and hospitality. i recently read the memoirs of a polish exchange student in sarajevo who had not met any foreign exchange student there who didn't like her. since the end of the war in 1995, sarajevo has also been rebuilt, mainly with the financial support of the european union. sarajevo is looking to its european future with great enthusiasm. he wants to demonstrate his enormous potential and to encourage europeans to join him. there's no doubt this city deserves that chance, and we should support it.
in writing. - sarajevo has a very important place in the historical consciousness of europeans. i support the granting of the title of european capital of culture to this city, by way of exception, in 2014. the initiative, which has been promoting the richness and diversity of european cultures for over 25 years, will also contribute to the city's tourist and economic revival. sarajevo has witnessed important historical events, and was heavily damaged as a result of the war in the 1990s. it was also the site of the massacre that started world war i. the centenary of that event is in 2014. the award of the title of european capital of culture at this time would not only have an impact on cultural regeneration and the improvement of the city's image abroad, but also on the commemoration of important aspects of european history and identity.
the dramatic events in sri lanka, as described in a un report, illustrate the kind of problems that armed conflict can lead to. what happened there is further proof that resolving differences through violence, through armed means, generates further gigantic problems. the concept of a just war has been debated in europe for centuries. what is especially painful is the fact that in the modern world, even a war that is theoretically just inevitably brings innocent and unjustified victims. it's happening no matter what we define as a just war. in the case of sri lanka, there is a growing body of evidence that this war was not fair to either side. the winner isn't always right, even though he's always trying to prove he's right. if there is to be a reconciliation, as the sri lankan government claims, it must be based on the truth of what happened during the fight against the tamil tigers. there will be no true reconciliation without the exposure of war crimes, no matter which side committed them. there will be no reconciliation if the parties consider their sins taboo, not to be talked about.
, in writing. we once again draw attention to the issue of freedom of speech, media and the general policy of treatment of journalists in azerbaijan. according to various sources, the situation of journalists and all political activists in the country is becoming more difficult. as early as 2005, azerbaijani president ilham aliyev assured that all rights of journalists would be respected and that they would be able to count on help in case of any danger. but the reality is that these words are just empty promises. as someone who has been a journalist for many years and knows him by heart, this case is particularly close to my heart. in azerbaijan, journalists continue to face challenges in their basic task of reporting accurately and reliably. it is unacceptable that journalists are doing their jobs under the pressure of arrests and searches. the azerbaijani authorities must realise that the functioning of free and independent media is a clear signal to the international community that the country is a reliable partner on the world stage. the message of the european parliament should be clear: the benefits of economic cooperation with the european union must not obscure the expectations of european standards of respect for fundamental human rights, in particular freedom of expression and the media, which are the pillars of democracy and without which a modern democratic society cannot exist.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in belarus. i would like to take a slightly unconventional approach to this topic today and mention two names that are connected to this topic: one is my friend, the great belarusian and european anatoliy lebizhko, who was recently released from prison after more than 100 days in detention, in my deepest conviction, unlawfully. i would like to see a voice of solidarity from this chamber today, through me - and i am sure from the majority of meps - because he is a man who deserves it. the second person whose release i would like to appeal for, along with hundreds of thousands of poles, is andrzej poczobut, a journalist from gazeta wyborcza, one of the leading polish journalists, who is also in prison, who is also persecuted simply because the lukashenko regime is afraid of freedom of speech, afraid of freedom of speech, which is the foundation of any democracy. i think that we as europeans gathered here today have no choice but to say very loudly: "hello to a free belarus", "hello to democracy in belarus", "hello to the belarusian people in europe". (laughter)
on behalf of the ppe group. indeed, the situation in belarus is worsening, literally by the day, both politically and economically. in the political dimension, in the dimension of civil liberties, we are witnessing the start and scandalous prosecution of the main rivals of alexander lukashenko in the recent presidential elections, and the repression of independent media, including in particular the weeks-long arrest of andrzej poczobut. in the economic dimension, the denomination of the ruble, the financial crisis, the problems with the current payment. moreover, alexander lukashenko is losing control, not only of the situation in the country, but of his own behavior, as evidenced by his surprising, shocking, offensive remarks to the president of ukraine and president barroso. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission and the council! time to stop talking and pleading, time to move on. the eighth paragraph of our resolution says clearly: it's time to impose economic sanctions, because that's the only language lukashenko understands. if we impose economic sanctions today, we can expect that the scandalous trials, the scandalous repressions will finally end, because lukashenko understands only this language, and so it is time to move on to the next, decisive phase of reacting to what is happening in belarus.
on behalf of the ecr group. on average every two months since the beginning of the year this is the third time that we have spoken in this house about what is happening in belarus. we list cases of human rights violations, we list the names of opposition activists who are imprisoned, the ability of many civil society organizations, ngos, to function is restricted. indeed, we should condemn all these things and we should protest against them very strongly. but i think it's equally important, and perhaps even more important, that the european union actually engages in building civil society, that it financially supports ngos, that it supports free media, that it also imposes economic sanctions. as far as economic sanctions are concerned, it seems that this is the moment, the moment to put them in place as soon as possible. today we will vote on a resolution that is supposed to give moral support to the belarusian people. i believe that this should be followed by concrete measures, including financial and economic sanctions, which will allow the restoration of freedom and democracy in this country.
i'll start with a personal note. i was approached by the libereco partnership for human rights with a request to take care of one of the opposition activists imprisoned in belarus. i've been offered the job of looking after mr. dmitry bondarenko. i suggest to all those who deal with these issues, to turn to this organization, to take up such a personal patronage of one of the repressed belarusians and his family - this will be a bit of an answer to what we can do for those who are not far away, in a country that borders the european union. but we're all really in favor of strong, clear action. it has already been said in this room, there must be sanctions, there must be strong language, because we can only speak to lukashenko in the language he understands, and he understands the language of business, he understands the language of power. to save human rights, to save democracy we must use a language that will be understood in minsk. i have the impression that we have spoken about this many times in this house, but there is little that can be said about it. this is of course an appeal to this house and to all the bodies and institutions of the european union, but it is also an appeal that i propose you take to your countries and national governments, because they have at least as much power to persuade mr lukashenko to bring democracy and freedom to his country as we do as the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is deeply concerned about the situation in belarus and particularly the developments in the wake of the violation of electoral standards at the presidential elections on 19 december 2010. the crackdown is now further intensifying, with a number of ongoing trials against ex-presidential candidates and most of the remaining detained activists. at the same time, proceedings are ongoing which could result in the closure of two of the remaining independent newspapers – nasha niva and narodnaya volya – and the harassment of the political opposition, civil society and the independent media continues. vice-president/high representative ashton has made a number of general and specific statements on the situation in belarus. we have in clear words condemned the deteriorating situation and have repeatedly called upon belarus to end the ongoing crackdown on the political opposition and civil society, release all political prisoners and discontinue the politically-motivated trials. we have also expressed our grave concern at reports of torture and other forms of ill-treatment, intimidation and court irregularities. let me also remind you that in january the council adopted restrictive measures comprising a travel ban and an asset freeze. the list now comprises 175 individuals – which should be compared to the 40 names put forward for an asset freeze and visa ban after the 2006 elections – and we stand ready to include further names, as warranted by developments. in addition we are considering options for further possible measures, including on the economic side. in our messages we have made it clear that we want to continue our engagement with the belarusian people and civil society. we are moving ahead on the issue of visa facilitation. negotiating directives for visa facilitation and readmission agreements were adopted by the council on 28 february, and we are encouraging member states to make optimal use of the existing flexibilities offered by the visa code, in particular the possibility of waiving and reducing visa fees for certain categories of citizens. in terms of assistance, the commission is quadrupling its assistance to the belarusian population and civil society. we remain committed to a policy of critical engagement in belarus. this was made clear by the 31 january conclusions of the foreign affairs council. at the same time, it is clear that any deepening of our bilateral relations will depend on belarus proving its willingness to respect the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. in conclusion let me say that the situation in belarus remains high on our agenda. i am glad to see that a large majority in this parliament is committed to continuing a serious debate about this and to resisting distractions. we shall continue to monitor developments closely, and we stand ready to react as appropriate.
in writing. we have long been witnessing the european union's political impotence in the face of the tragic situation in belarus. more appeals and resolutions are not working. the government of alexander lukashenko has a hard hand in gagging the opposition by convicting and sending its leaders to prisons and so-called penal colonies. in this context, it is enough to mention the names of the opposition presidential candidate andrei sannikau, whose trial began a month ago, or nikolai statkievich, who is in kgb custody. what did the union do to free them? the key to a positive revolution in belarus is russia, which has always been an ally of the regime. so, at the next joint meeting with the kremlin leaders, we should stop talking about a common european security area from the atlantic to the urals, as the leaders of france and germany want, and instead address the real challenges that lie just beyond our borders. the economic crisis in belarus is the best time for change. any international assistance should be conditional on democratic change in belarus.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 12 may 2011.
i welcome the president of tajikistan, emomali rahmon, who is on an official visit to the european parliament. i just met with the president. we discussed our bilateral relations and the need for reform in tajikistan.
ladies and gentlemen! on june 4th, we celebrated the 22nd anniversary of two important events. on this day in 1989, the authorities of the people's republic of china brutally cracked down on protesters in tiananmen square. we all remember that. also on the same day 22 years ago, poland held the first partially free parliamentary elections in central and eastern europe, which were won by the candidates of the democratic opposition, covering almost all the mandates subject to free voting. of these free-voting seats, only one senate seat was not filled by the democratic opposition. they took all the remaining seats in both the sejm and the senate. these two anniversaries remind us of how much has changed in europe and how we europeans have managed to bring about the changes in central and eastern europe with minimal loss, which resulted in the merger of eastern and western europe. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ladies and gentlemen, i have a very important announcement for all of us: during the opening session, evacuation drills will be conducted without prior notice. similar exercises will take place during the june mini-session in brussels. you will be informed of the details by e-mail. everyone received an email explaining how to behave during the alarm. we do not know the time of the alarm, but we should read the instructions and act on them when the alarm is sounded. in a few minutes, i'll send you another reminder to all your inboxes with detailed instructions on how to behave during the alert and what it entails. all this information is in the e-mails. °° °i hereby inform you that mrs koch-mehrin has informed me that she is resigning as vice-president of the european parliament with effect from 11 may 2011. in accordance with rule 18 of the rules of procedure, i hereby declare this post vacant.
the final draft agenda, adopted in accordance with rules 137 and 138 of the rules of procedure by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 1 june 2011, was distributed. the following changes are proposed: [monday]: the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has requested a debate on the process of selecting a new managing director of the imf and representing the euro externally immediately after jo leinen's report on the european environmental economic accounts. the motion is now being tabled by sylvie goulard on behalf of the alde group. - there you go.
the debate on the procedure for selecting the new managing director of the international monetary fund and the euro area's external representation will take place immediately after mr leinen's report on the european environmental economic accounts. there's a slight change in the agenda. (the order of business is approved)
ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! this month marks the 70th anniversary of the mass deportations of soviet authorities from the baltic states, territories occupied since 1940. these deportations were mainly aimed at depriving estonia, latvia and lithuania of their social and political elites. scientists were eliminated, politicians were eliminated, people who were famous for their independent thinking were eliminated. it is our common duty today to honour the memory of the hundreds of thousands of victims of soviet terror in the baltic states, and to condemn unequivocally the totalitarian system and the crimes against humanity committed by its leaders. the suffering of the peoples of lithuania, latvia and estonia gave them the determination and strength to fight for independence half a century later and return to a united europe. i also wanted to remind you that on june 22nd, which is two weeks from today, is the 70th anniversary of the attack by nazi germany on the soviet union. this attack marked the end of the previous alliance and the secret agreement between hitler and stalin of august 1939 to divide europe. so we have a period of important anniversaries for our memory, for european memory, but i think the presence of our colleagues from lithuania, latvia and estonia is proof that europeans are able to overcome difficulties, to overcome great tensions, and that is why we are very happy to have our colleagues here with us today.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr jo leinen on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european environmental economic accounts (com (2010) 0132 - c7-0092/2010 - 2010/0073 cod) (a7-0330/2010).
it is not good that the imf is only mentioned in the context of the scandal that was caused by its last boss, dominique strauss-kahn. this not only affects the prestige of this important office and the institution as a whole, but also the prestige of a european politician in such a high position. i think if this finally ends the tolerance for behavior that everyone knew about and that is far too much tolerated, that would be the only plus in this whole awful thing. but now we have to fight to restore the reputation of this office and the institution that is the imf. to do so, a competent person must be proposed to the post, who will be able to keep the markets, the media and the public at large calm in a situation that is very difficult today. the credibility of the candidate is important, and christine lagarde was named the best eurozone finance minister in 2009 by the financial times. the commissioner has already mentioned how well she has run the g20 presidency. she is a person whose credibility is beyond doubt. the imf's role cannot be underestimated, especially today, in the economic and financial crisis that is affecting many countries in europe. so european thinking must be present in this institution. we need someone in this position who understands the nature of the current crisis. i know that christine lagarde, in her role at the imf in global finance and in the european union, using her skills and international experience, will not lose sight of the european interest. she herself said that if she was elected to the position, she would give the fund all her experience as a lawyer, a business executive, a minister and a woman. let us also consider this last element, which is very important in this situation.
increasing innovation in the european union is one of the key elements of economic development, especially in times of crisis. this aspect has been very well emphasized by the rapporteur. unfortunately, however, some important points have been presented in what seems to be too general a way. first, however, it is worth noting that relatively little money is allocated to innovation in the new countries of the european union. it is almost as if there is a great disparity and disproportion between the old and the new countries of the european union. the report mentions it in only one sentence. their modest contribution is negatively perceived and has a negative impact on the sustainable development of the community and its cohesion. it is worth mentioning here that despite the €86 billion allocated to research in the 2007-2013 funding period, this situation is not changing, and therefore the cohesion fund allocations for innovation in the next financial perspective should take greater account of this factor of balanced allocation of funds to both the old and the new countries of the european union. this innovation is also an opportunity for these new european countries, and science and modern technologies should also be developed there in a coherent way for the benefit of europe as a whole. it is also worth noting that research funding problems are largely in the sme sector. the tightening of monetary policy resulting from the financial and economic crisis has limited the provision of credit that is necessary for long-term investments linked to innovation. this must be taken into account in order to facilitate the access of smes to credit for these purposes. it is also worth mentioning the simplification of administrative procedures in this respect.
i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the main thing i would like to stress is the simplification of the rules and procedures applicable to programmes supporting research and innovation activities and the need to identify the reasons for the under-representation of the new countries in the european union. the future framework programme must respond to current needs so that each country can develop its research area, research activities and innovation by designing common financial instruments which, if well managed, would allow the focus of action on market and societal needs. enabling associations, enterprises, in particular micro-enterprises, to participate in the future framework programme as clusters, national or regional networks of technology platforms is a necessary task. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that the continuing diversity of innovation levels across the eu regions requires particular attention when formulating common strategic frameworks for research and innovation funding. it is worth noting the synergy of actions at european, national and regional levels, in addition to introducing common administrative and financial regulations and forcing the harmonisation of rules and conditions for participation in the different programmes towards the creation of a common and transparent system. i hope that the conclusions drawn from the evaluation process of the seventh framework programme will form the basis for further work on the next one, the eighth.
as i listen to today's evaluation of the seventh framework programme, i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the preparations for the next, the eighth programme. we already have a green paper on this subject which makes almost no mention of the need for research to be applied in other areas, such as fisheries. unfortunately, the evolution of direct research funding in this sector is very worrying. we started with funds that were gradually reduced in successive programmes, and these drastic cuts led to the fact that in the seventh programme marine research was completely eliminated as a specific funding objective. in the next framework programme, this situation must change so that we are able to meet the objectives of the reformed common fisheries policy. fisheries face many challenges and research and scientific support are powerful tools for further sustainable development of the sector. that is why it is so important to allocate adequate resources to this purpose. thank you, sir.
in writing. a common problem in all innovation reports is the lack of a clearly defined framework for eu r & d funding. in its report, the members of the audi group repeated this problem. moreover, this implies another unresolved issue of inequality in spending in the european union. the author has too modestly mentioned the inequality in the use of funds between the western part of europe and the new countries of the community. the weak financing situation is reflected, inter alia, in the use of the risk sharing finance facility (rsff). only 18 of the 27 countries involved in the programme are co-financing projects. moreover, the largest beneficiaries are applicants from the so-called old union countries germany (23,1% of all funds awarded), spain (19,1%), england (9,9%) and the netherlands (8,3%). today, it funds about a third of the research. it seems necessary to increase the percentage so that the entrepreneur's own contribution does not exceed 10 to 15% of the required amount (currently it is required to have 15 to 25% of the amount allocated to the research). we must remember that one of the union's main tasks is to close the social and geographical gaps by distributing the benefits of innovation across the eu. we will not be able to meet this objective by bypassing the new community countries financially and thereby encouraging further unilateral 'brain drain'.
in writing. i am pleased to see the trend towards increased funding for research in the european union. at the same time, i believe that it is essential to pool our efforts and resources in this field. at national level, reforms are needed as soon as possible to enable well-functioning centres to be established and to avoid duplication of work on the same projects. this would also contribute to a better use of the funds. the european union must be mindful of the significant impact of research on competitive advantage in today's globalised world. in particular, member states should reform their safety research system - one of the key areas identified in the report - to optimise it in the face of the financial crisis.
the potential gains for both canada and the european union are clear and backed by research and encouraging private sector support. this is to be commended and encouraged to further deepen cooperation. but as europeans who are sensitive to environmental aspects, we should be tough and basically demand that canada meet our rigorous standards. i am very pleased that the commissioner mentioned this in her speech. but we should not only focus on sustainable development, we should also address the issue of the extraction of substances that threaten life and health, such as asbestos, the use and extraction of which is banned in europe. in addition, there is a difference in the regulations on genetically modified organisms. this is a particularly sensitive issue in my country, but of course the whole chapter on agriculture is important for both sides. the commitments to reduce co2 emissions should be mentioned next. and last but not least, the trade in seal products. here, too, we should insist on strict adherence to our prohibitions. but with all these important issues in mind, i believe that our economic relationship will reach its full potential because it is supported by both sides. our home should encourage this.
the european capital of culture is one of the european commission's most recognisable cultural initiatives. according to the commission's studies, it is a source of national pride and shared responsibility for the inhabitants of the nominated cities. in 2016, the host countries are poland and spain. two cities will be selected from these two countries to be european capitals of culture in 2016. my hometown of gdansk has been named the winner of a polish contest that will be decided later this month. i strongly support this candidacy, which is signed with the slogan "cultural freedom" "culture of freedom". gdansk is a historic hanseatic city and the birthplace of the 'solidarity' movement, which is associated with freedom. now we want to build a modern program on that foundation. we want free access to cultural goods and solidarity on a daily basis between generations and neighbours. i believe that my city has a lot to offer the european community and winning this prestigious competition would help it to flourish even more.
in writing. i welcome the report on european cooperation in vocational education and training. it highlights a very important but little-known problem. it focuses on the need for national authorities, in cooperation with the european commission, to take action to combat unemployment by adapting vocational training to the needs of the labour market. unfortunately, vocational training has been neglected and lost its relevance over the past few years. this is why it is so important to promote it as an effective tool in the fight against unemployment, and in particular against the unemployment of young people in the european union, which is as high as 21%. training, the creation of guidance centres to help workers plan training in line with labour market needs and the promotion of continuing vocational training should be a priority. i therefore call on the commission to keep a close watch on the prospects for possible changes in the eu labour market, so that member states can adapt their vocational training programmes to market needs on an ongoing basis.
in writing. the new competences and skills acquired by graduates from different types of schools are of strategic importance for economic growth, open up new opportunities for people, and provide the basis for sustainable development. so the problem of unemployment, especially among young people, cannot be ignored. they are the ones who are most likely to be out of work, forced into temporary work, with lower levels of social security and no prospects for development. the europe 2020 strategy targets a target of 100% of early school leavers and 40% of young europeans in higher education. the legislative process should focus on facilitating the implementation of traineeships and apprenticeships for young workers, especially in micro and small enterprises, which have difficulty in financing such initiatives. a strong focus should also be placed on eliminating the gender pay gap, which currently stands at around 18%, by 2020. i believe that the two most important initiatives in the transnational labour market are the qualifications framework developed under the copenhagen process and the european single system for the transfer of vocational education and training qualifications. it is also worth paying attention to informal training, which is an invaluable additional source of competence, shapes the character and responsibility of the individual and should therefore be financially supported by the eu. in order to achieve these many important objectives, cooperation between member states and the involvement of all actors, including those at local and regional level, is essential.
i join in the mourning of the victims and wish those who are sick a return to health. we have a lot to explain. we need to determine the source and cause of the epidemic, but also the source and cause of the spread of false news about this epidemic in europe and the world, false and harmful news that has caused so much damage. the causes of this epidemic need to be looked at closely, and in particular the large-scale, industrial farming, where antibiotics are used on a massive scale. i agree with the previous speakers who spoke about this. with such widespread use of antibiotics, it is hardly surprising that strains of bacteria have developed that are resistant to antibiotics. i believe that this intensive farming with the use of antibiotics should be very limited in the european union, if not eliminated altogether. and the damage that has been done should be borne by those who caused it.
it is important that we discuss today the risks to patients, food producers and consumers from the emergence of a dangerous bacterium whose source we cannot yet determine. we say we have a good quality monitoring system and high food standards. yet, there are times when things are difficult, as they are today. it is therefore necessary to review and improve our system of supervision and control. you have to be prepared for even more dangerous situations. you must not disclose the source of the information unless it is certain. it slows down the search process and causes enormous moral and economic damage. we extend our condolences to the families of the victims, to those who are sick, but let us remember the compensation for the farmers of different countries who suffered losses. we are discussing the future of the common agricultural policy, food security and food quality. perhaps this difficult situation will make you realize how important this area of issues and problems is, which concerns not only the nutrition but also the health of our citizens.
mr. chairman, thank you very much for agreeing to speak at such an important debate. european union citizens also demand that the european institutions act effectively in preventing the spread of any epidemic across the european union and this is understandable but above all, prevention agencies in the field of health and food safety should have developed methods to prevent panic. they should be completely independent of the administrations of the member states and even be endowed with powers of authority in the event of a crisis. the lady was unable to prevent this. this will result in millions of losses, including for polish farmers. the prices of vegetables on the polish market fell by two thirds in just one week. the vegetable growers are losing 2 million zlotys every day. we raised the alarm a few months ago about the so-called swine flu, and the european institutions failed to prevent the spread of panic in the european union. it's the same now.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! in the context of the debate on the ehec epidemic in the member states of the european union, i would like to point out that, as a result of decisions by eu and non-eu countries, borders have been closed to protect the market from the influx of vegetables from countries with a suspected source of infection. the information we are receiving from vegetable growers is disturbing. the recipients report zero interest from customers in buying cucumbers, tomatoes or other vegetables. they suffer huge financial losses because they are forced to throw away all the goods or give them away for much less than the purchase price. producers are ending their crops, which means that production is being changed and workers are being laid off. if the prognosis continues to be worrying and we can't find the source of the infection, then the entrepreneurs will be forced to close down due to lack of liquidity. i think the european union has the administrative tools to react quickly to such cases, so we should think about how to streamline the system to make it more efficient. with these mechanisms in place, we should find the source of the infection as soon as possible, so as not to risk further losses to vegetable growers. thank you, sir.
mrs lichtenberger said that there are sensible ministers in the member states of the european union. i would be grateful if the honourable member would give me their names, although i realise that would be a very, very short list. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very thorough work, although it is worth discussing, because there are a number of things that are extremely controversial. the trucks are paying more, so the owners of the trucking companies are paying more. this is a problem for companies in times of crisis, there's no hiding it. the question is, what's the money for? here's the real dilemma, because if they go on to do more stupid projects for some marginal, marginal group, that's bad. they should go to the industry, to transport development, then you could understand it. it is a kind of tribute, and it is in the majesty of the european union, with the seal of the european parliament. i think it's a really controversial thing.
in writing. i think it is extremely important that the second reading of the directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles, also known as the euro-vignette directive, is completed today. the basic and most important issue is the provision establishing the 'polluter pays' principle, according to which the use of road infrastructure by heavy goods vehicles emitting more pollution and noise than those equipped with euro v and vi engines will be subject to road tolls. in addition, it is possible to make the charges dependent on traffic (roadblocks): during peak hours but not more than 5 hours a day. i think that this is a good way of encouraging people to avoid using certain sections of the road during rush hours. in addition, member states will be able to specify the use of the revenue from the charges collected, but at least 15% of the revenue should go to financial support for ten-t projects to increase the sustainability of transport.
in writing. i am convinced that the european union needs uniform guidelines to enable member states to levy charges for the external costs of the road transport sector. however, we must bear in mind that transport companies, especially in times of crisis, will not be able to afford to replace their fleets quickly with vehicles complying with euro v and vi standards. therefore, carriers cannot be punished for external factors beyond their control. in my view, the objective should be to extend the incentive period for the cleanest vehicles as much as possible. transport companies investing in low-emission technologies must be entitled to an appropriate investment guarantee period during which they would pay the lowest rates or be exempted from them. in conclusion, we have often stressed in this parliament that the most important thing is the human being. the transport sector is not only a source of excessive noise and co2 emissions throughout the community, but also and above all a source of hundreds of thousands of jobs and an important part of the gdp of many member states.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i'm going to ask for two statements. i'd like to ask one person who supports this proposal to speak. thank you, mrs bowles.
mr. chairman, please! i informed the secretariat that i would like to submit an oral amendment to delete article 27 because it contains false information about an important scientific project called indect. i would like to inform the house that this project has been approved by the ethical review. it was reviewed on 15 march 2011 in brussels by experts from austria, france, the netherlands, germany and the united kingdom. the ethical audit of the project's performance was positive and this is confirmed. no deficiencies were found in relation to the ethical aspects of the project. the ethical aspects of the report have been continuously monitored by the european commission from the outset. i would like to stress this and ask the house to be careful not to include in our report information which is not supported by the facts. it is a very important scientific research project carried out by the academy of mining and metallurgy in kraków and a number of european research institutions and universities.
in writing. - drug use is a social problem in both developed and developing countries. croatians, like other countries, are struggling with drug addiction and have very strict laws on the matter. prevention is especially important in schools, as this is the most vulnerable group in society to drug addiction. as a candidate country for eu membership, croatia has an obligation to adapt its legal system to that of the community countries. i believe that croatia's participation in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is extremely important, especially as a transit country. illegal substances are transported from producer countries to consumer countries via croatia. participation in the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction will bring croatia closer to the eu's highly important drug policy.
in writing. - mr president, the dynamic development of satellite navigation systems in recent years is the result of both technological progress and market demands. they are now commonly used in all forms of transportation. the continued expansion of the industry means that the projected value of european systems could reach a ceiling of eur 230 billion by 2025. the union's egnos and galileo projects can have an impact on competitiveness at every level of this service sector. they are far better and more accurate than gps, and yet they are compatible with it. unfortunately, the countries of the east and south of the union are still not covered by egnos. the extension of the scope therefore seems necessary in the context of its further development. the way in which the cost of maintaining galileo, estimated at around €800 million per year, will be financed also remains unclear. on the basis of the above, i abstain from voting on the report.
in writing. − i am convinced that action to promote the use of egnos and galileo in civil aviation is crucial to the creation of a single european air traffic management system. unfortunately, as the rapporteur has pointed out in her document, the introduction of galileo is facing new problems. i agree with the commission's call for rapid egnos certification for civil aviation. i have already stressed on many occasions that i am enthusiastic about the concept of the single european sky and the sesar single air traffic management system. the rapid and full realisation of european airspace is a very important strategic step towards the real integration of the community and the strengthening of the common market. without galileo there will be no sesar and without it there will be no single european sky 2. and let's remember that this area in particular is a system of connected vessels. the weakness of one element will have a fatal effect on the others.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of today's vote, especially as i was the rapporteur member for the document on the eu-us aviation agreement. it was a document of particular importance. the european union and the united states together account for approximately 60% of the world's air traffic. the future opening of the market to eu and us airlines on a non-discriminatory basis will offer better services to passengers and carriers in air transport, bring significant economic benefits and create jobs. unfortunately, the european parliament was not involved in the negotiations of the community-us agreement and ultimately had no influence on the content of this document. this is an unacceptable situation. i therefore agree with the main point of the report adopted today by mr simpson on international air traffic agreements: the european parliament should be involved in the negotiations from the outset or at least kept informed of their progress.
in writing. - i would like to express my full support for the directive on the charging of road tolls to heavy goods vehicles. i would particularly like to support a provision which is very important for the european environment. i hope that the lower charges for less polluting cars will motivate the remaining owners of transport companies to upgrade their fleet. crops located in the vicinity of frequented roads would also be much less exposed to exhaust pollution. i also see the increase in the traffic charges during rush hour as a positive aspect. these restrictions will improve road safety and driving comfort for all road users. this restriction will also improve the infrastructure, which is most damaged during peak hours.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted for the euro-vignette because i believe that solutions of this kind are capable of ensuring full harmonisation of the european charging system for heavy goods vehicles, thus facilitating efficient transit through the member states, avoiding unnecessary delays. in my view, the introduction of the 'polluter pays' principle will reduce pollution and noise caused by heavy goods vehicles not equipped with euro v and vi engines which are not subject to road tolls. in addition, the principle that member states will be able to determine the use of the revenue from the charges collected, but that at least 15% of the revenue should go to financial support for ten-t projects, will ensure that transport is more sustainable.
in writing. i voted for the directive. i believe that the decision to extend the scope of the eurovignette to cover external costs, i.e. the costs of environmental pollution and noise, is more favourable than the previous decision, which was limited to covering road infrastructure costs. this directive is favourable to transit countries, so polish meps should be particularly concerned about it. it is also worth noting that the lower the environmental category of the truck, the lower the charges are to be. fortunately, vehicles with a payload of between 3.5 and 12 tonnes and passenger car users will be exempt from the charges. the fares will be structured according to the time of day, which i think will help discourage the use of sections at risk of traffic jams during peak hours. an important principle of the directive is also the provision on the expenditure of revenue from customs duties. they are to be reinvested in transport infrastructure, without reservation as to type, with a minimum of 15% of the proceeds to be allocated to ten-t (trans european transport networks) projects. i believe that we also need long-term action to bring the methods of calculating external costs into line in all member states. this could ensure transparency of communications for the european road transport industry.
i have the following message for you, ladies and gentlemen: in view of the tentative evacuation carried out during today's vote, all explanations of the positions taken in today's vote will be accepted tomorrow, and therefore the positions will be explained together in tomorrow's vote. we'll also complete the votes that didn't happen today. it is a vote on one of the reports, which will be taken at the same time as the vote on the other reports, so that there is no interruption.
the next item is the question to the president of the commission.
president of the commission. − there is an ongoing debate about this, in fact it is one of the topics for the european council this month, on 23 and 24 june. not only should the member states adopt the proposal already put forward to reinforce frontex, but it is also important to step up the logistical response: more planes and more ships are indispensable and we cannot currently provide them from our budget at european level. i think there is a political will to do this but it needs to be done in a coordinated manner and this is where an effort has been initiated by the commission: commissioner malmström is working on the matter with the member states, and i hope the european council later this month will confirm our thinking. at the same time, of course, we also need the cooperation of third countries. i myself was in tunisia, where i spoke with the prime minister, and they have promised us cooperation. in fact, they are cooperating and we are now trying to reach some form of pragmatic logistical agreements between the tunisian authorities and our own agencies.
not all meps are back in the chamber after the fire drill.
president of the commission. − the european central bank (ecb) is certainly independent, and not only is its independence recognised by the treaty – so it is therefore legal and treaty-based independence – but i can also tell you that i have had some seven years’ experience in this position, dealing very frequently with the ecb and being present on many occasions when the ecb has shown it does not need our support to affirm its independence. i want to reassure you on that point. regarding the issue of restructuring, various options are, as you know, under analysis. we are considering the whole debate, but the position of the commission has already been clearly stated: we believe that the restructuring is not an alternative to the efforts that member states have to make in terms of fiscal consolidation and structural reform. that has been our consistent position and we will maintain it.
president of the commission. - mrs ilda figueiredo, first of all, as regards the issues of global financial regulation, as you know, since the g20 established itself as the first economic forum for global governance in financial areas, it is the g20 that has given priority to these issues. however, some of these points have been addressed. i myself... have occasion to tell you... i myself initiated the discussion at the g8 on a tax on financial activity, precisely when we were also discussing the problem of development aid, and my position is clearly in favour of this tax. we are working on this in the commission and will be presenting some ideas very soon. the situation in the euro area was also discussed in relation to the overall issue it raises. then we have perhaps completely different views. we understand that without budgetary consolidation and structural reforms there is no chance of achieving our objectives of a social market economy.
mr barroso, at the g8 summit the participants debated their commitments to the neighbourhood policy in the mediterranean. you yourself, on behalf of the european union, have committed eur 1.24 billion saying it is for the neighbourhood, which might have been understood as being just for the south. we know from the interim versions of the commission’s document that in an initial phase, within the eur 1.24 billion, eur 150 million was for the east and all the rest was for the south. that contradicts the principle of symmetry and equal attention being paid to both neighbourhoods. how would you explain this? what did you really and factually commit to the southern mediterranean neighbourhood policy within the context of the only amount of money that has been mentioned by you?
president of the commission. − first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the greek people. i understand how difficult these times are for greece. but i also believe that the responsibility of political leaders at european or national level, whether they are in government or in opposition, is to show what countries have to do. in fact, without fiscal consolidation, without structural reform, greece will not come out of this crisis. the reality is that some painful measures are unavoidable in greece and anyone who claims otherwise is lying to the greek people. my appeal to the greek leaders is to explain in honest terms to the population of greece the difficult choices that the country has to make. we will all support it. in the european council, it was i who proposed a reduction in interest rates on loans granted to greece. but, at the same time, let us be honest. greece has to make some of the effort itself because one country cannot live forever with such high levels of debt. this is the honest message that we should convey to the government and the opposition in greece, and that we in europe must accept if we really want to help that country.
president of the commission. − i have great respect for all our democratic states so it is not up to me to tell them what they should do in this matter. but we know that greece has no intention of leaving the euro zone. i am in constant contact with both the greek authorities and the main opposition party and i know very well that they do not want to leave the euro zone. probably some of you, distinguished members, would like the country to leave the euro zone, or perhaps your country is not in the euro zone and we respect that, but greece is very committed to the european project. greece has difficulties, and we are trying to support it, but please do not attack the euro on ideological grounds. the reality is that there are countries outside the euro zone that have at least comparable problems. iceland is not a member of the euro zone and iceland went bankrupt. let us put it frankly: iceland was one of the richest countries in the world in per capita terms before the financial crisis. in the european union we also have countries that are facing the same kind of difficulties because of very high levels of expenditure. so the reality is that the euro is not the problem, the problem is a very high level of debt or a very high level of deficits in the economies.
the president's question time has been closed.
i would like to draw attention to what i believe is a very important factor. we in this room are all happy that the referendum will soon result in the creation of a new state of south sudan. but it should be emphasized that this is only an opportunity, because the state today does not have the basic attributes that every state should have. it has no structure, no competent officials, and no justice system. in other words, it also opens the door to forces that could undermine peace and security in the region. in this context, i believe that in addition to the very important humanitarian aid, security must also be taken into account and that the un forces still present there are needed.
i have the impression that in recent discussions in the european parliament we are thinking more and more in terms of defending the border - sometimes it is at the border of the european union, and sometimes we want to set borders and defend them within the european union. i want to state firmly and emphatically that there is no substantive reason to delay the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area today. we should oppose any attempt to restrict contacts between citizens, we should oppose any attempt to restrict freedom of movement, freedom of action within the european union. the debate i'm listening to shows how deeply divided the european union is today. those who today make artificial arguments against bulgaria and romania's entry into the schengen area will be responsible in their conscience for destroying the political project of the european union. and they will never escape that responsibility again.
there is talk of a crisis in the european union. so far, we've mostly talked about the economic crisis. now what is happening around the schengen area is causing people to say that not only the economy but also the issue of citizens' fundamental rights is at stake. that is why, after the events surrounding the schengen area in italy, france and then denmark, i think we must send a very clear signal that no, the schengen area is not in danger, we do not want it to be suspended, we want it to be strengthened and extended, that we care very much about an open europe. we have to show that we can overcome crises. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, that when denmark wanted to start border controls, the communication on the common asylum and immigration policy was issued so quickly. but now there must be a next step. it is not just a question of voting for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. the point is to do it as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, awareness of the system varies greatly from country to country, and the number of registered names in a given country also varies. european funds for promotion are available to operators to promote quality products, with more than eur 19 million being allocated to fifteen promotion programmes between 2006 and 2010. moreover, the commission wishes to re-examine the policy for promoting agricultural products and a green paper is planned for this summer. this will be an opportunity to discuss the objectives of this policy once again, and to examine expectations with regard to promotion and quality of products and dissemination of information in this context.
member of the commission. − high unemployment among young people is one of the commission’s top priorities and is one of my foremost personal concerns. lack of jobs could conceivably generate an exodus of young people from europe, but the vast majority of young people who change countries to find work will probably choose to move to another member state. that is why it is so important to promote freedom of movement for workers within the union. it offers a solution in regions where unemployment among young people is high, given the labour shortages in certain sectors in some member states that are evident from the commission’s new quarterly vacancy monitor. promoting mobility among young people within the eu is one of the aims of the europe 2020 flagship initiative: youth on the move. it outlines a wide range of measures to reduce the current high youth unemployment. let me give you a few examples. youth labour mobility will be promoted in particular through a new eu job mobility scheme, your first eures job, which was launched with the support of this house and the council. its aim is to help young people find a job on the european labour market and assist employers in recruiting young european mobile workers. your first eures job will provide advisory, job search, recruitment and financial support amounting on average to eur 1 000 for more than 2 000 young job seekers and companies willing to recruit young eu workers. the commission also encourages the member states to introduce a youth guarantee to ensure that all young people are in further education, training or work within four months of finishing their general education. in germany, austria and the netherlands, as the honourable member rightly points out, youth unemployment rates are relatively low. this is due at least in part to the comprehensive vocational education and training systems in those member states, which facilitate young people’s labour market integration. the bruges communiqué of december 2010 on enhanced european cooperation in vocational education and training for the period 2011–2020 is an important european achievement in this area. it outlines objectives and identifies the action needed to improve the quality of vocational training and make it more accessible and relevant to the needs of the labour market. i would also, as another element to my reply, like to highlight the youth at work campaign. launched in budapest on 29 april, youth at work will bring together small and medium-sized enterprises and young job seekers and will provide information and support to inspire young people to set up their own businesses. over 30 events are planned between now and the end of 2012 when this campaign will end. honourable members, i hope that the avenues and initiatives i have indicated will be followed up with effective action within the member states.
my question to the commissioner is of a slightly different nature. the commissioner spoke of various measures to reduce unemployment, but he did not say a word about the fact that one of the important and more effective ways would be for each country to take into account the qualifications acquired in other countries. today, a young person often has to take the same exams over and over again to find work abroad. what's going to happen to it?
member of the commission. - madam president, it is our stated aim to link structural policy, as far as possible, to the europe 2020 strategy in the next programming period. the commission has therefore set out key objectives and priorities to be implemented in the regions as part of a tailor-made adaptation. the regions will have to choose a few priorities from a menu, especially if they are competitive regions. the regions will then set and agree with us, as the commission, very realistic but ambitious quantifiable targets in a partnership and investment agreement, so that at the end of the period we can clearly see whether the mutually agreed objectives have been achieved or perhaps even exceeded. if they have not been met, we have the opportunity to look together at the reasons for the failure and whether this is due to internal or external factors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a very substantial, very qualitative development of regional policy in the next financial period.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr salvador garriga polledo, on behalf of the special committee on political challenges and budgetary resources for a sustainable european union after 2013, on the report on investing in the future - a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe [2010/2211 (ini) ] (a7-0193/2011)
colleagues, as you see, we are witnessing a fundamental discussion on the future of europe and we are waiting for the standpoint of the commission. there is a blue card. mr hartong, are you ready to answer?
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome on behalf of the commission the report submitted by the sure committee. this is a real contribution to the preparations for the next financial perspective, but it is also truly european. it is a genuine european perspective on the future of the european project. this is desperately needed now when we face numerous common challenges demanding common answers in the era named by mr schulz as that of a spirit of ‘entsolidarisierung’ (‘dismantling of solidarity’). my comment relates not only to the report itself, but also to the proceedings in the sure committee – in which i participated, so i know what i am talking about – to the skilful management by jutta haug and the role of salvador garriga polledo. that is the broad consensus and majority vote which will probably and hopefully be confirmed today in the plenary. yes, we share the vision which is contained in the report. yes, we also say that the european budget is not about the duplication of national budgets, but about delivering common goals beyond the capacity of nation states where european funds can realise economies of scale or create synergies. in short, the european budget should be used where it makes a difference, as it has the nature of an investment and has no deficit. we also share a vision of the so-called ‘traditional’ policies – namely the common agriculture policy and cohesion policy. traditional does not mean outdated, but as a mechanism for delivering the goals of the 2020 strategy. when properly shaped in the budget, they could create room for much better and visibly better financing of what was under-financed – i.e. innovation, the management of migration flows, the external responsibilities of the european union that are now so visible in the mediterranean area, energy efficiency and, above all, how to connect europe via the trans-european networks and the other cross-border connectors in energy systems. the european budget should assume new functions as a toolbox for disciplining the member states’ public finances, but it cannot be blamed for mismanagement of public finances at national level. it should act as collateral now for the balance-of-payments facility, but also in the future for the greater use of innovative financial instruments leveraging european budgets. the report is asking for a reform of the financing side and we are to respond by indicating new resources. as mr daul rightly said, that is how to make the life of a finance minister easier – by indicating new own resources for the budget and reducing the direct contribution. therefore, the package to be presented at the end of june is about figures, the multiannual framework regulation, a new proposal for an interinstitutional agreement, but also about own resources. specific sectoral proposals should come later, between september and the end of the year. let me end by repeating once more my conviction that the sure committee report is a good input into the discussion about the future of the european union, and a strong, important point of reference for the commission. cooperation between the commission and parliament is essential, not only for a good start in shaping the proposal, but also for a happy end to the negotiations which are extremely difficult in the present context.
thank you, commissioner. that was a very important discussion between the commission and parliament. the two institutions would like to back each other, to have a similar approach to the multiannual financial framework. we will see the european commission project at the end of this month, when it will be also be presented in parliament. (in response to a voice from the floor:) i am sorry but we do not put blue-card questions to our guests, they are put only to members of the european parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. the polish delegation in the conservative group (european conservatives and reformists) will vote in favour of the report on the multiannual financial framework. but that doesn't mean we don't see the weakness in this document. it is a waste of time to develop the demands for own resources and thus to develop european taxes. europeans are already paying too much in taxes. we need to put more emphasis on controlling eu spending and to critically evaluate current policies in this area. turning a blind eye to the waste of these resources is not the answer. it is also not fair to european taxpayers. the dominance of the europe 2020 agenda may mean reforming eu policies at the expense of much more important commitments, such as the treaty's commitment to promote economic cohesion between member states. however, we cannot ignore the european added value that comes with european cohesion policy. its effects are more visible in poland than anywhere else. accelerating growth through cohesion policy is not just for us. accelerating growth in central europe is making a significant contribution to growth in europe as a whole, improving investment conditions that are profitable not only in warsaw and prague but also in amsterdam, london and berlin.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make it clear that the work of the sure committee was, above all, very concrete, substantive and extremely realistic. the sure committee was dominated by the discussion of how much it would cost to make political decisions. we must remember that the member states, including the letter-writing countries, have agreed on the objectives of the 2020 strategy. the sure committee has tried to indicate how much the political decisions that are taken collectively will cost. we take political decisions very seriously. if the member states decide to take action, and we, the people's representatives, share this view, then we must have realistic measures. the report which is put to the vote is therefore a deliberate and compromise report. this report is realistic and, most importantly, it is a report that provides a very good basis for starting conversations. i think we can say today in this chamber that the european parliament is prepared to start negotiations. i would also like to express my deep conviction as a polish member that the polish presidency of the council of the union will be the presidency that is currently engaging in a serious, extremely realistic dialogue, and since poland and its government are pro-european, it will certainly be a difficult dialogue, but extremely beneficial for further action. the most important thing is to start the negotiations. parliament is prepared to do so.
i have just received information that the under-secretary-general of the united nations, mr muhammad shaaban, is in the official gallery. i should like to welcome the representative of the united nations.
we now continue with the debate on the report by salvador garriga polledo on a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe.
mr president, i would like to say a few words on the need to move towards own resources reform. i believe that the dominating role of gni-based revenue makes a decision on the eu budget over-politicised and less efficiency-oriented. it facilitates demands to freeze or to reduce eu spending. it leads to the logic expressed in the context of the 2011 budget negotiations that if we cut our national budgets due to the crisis, we should apply the same approach to the eu budget. it is, however, not at all obvious that with an additional own resource that would reduce the dependence on gni we can expect a revolution in eu capacities to finance growth and structural change. there is always a risk that the same coalition that adopts the budgetary decision in the council can also adopt the same decision in the european parliament. if we care for europe, we should move away from responding to the expectations of finance ministers and move towards citizens’ expectations. the success of a national politician returning home from brussels negotiations should not be based on the message that the government will pay less to the eu budget but, for example, on the message that the eu will help to make small companies fund innovation projects. it is clear that the way eu costs are financed should be fully transparent. this could be easier to achieve with only one tax, but it is also feasible to build the revenue on a group of taxes that meet criteria on transparency, equity, visibility, efficiency and sufficient harmonisation.
i would like to congratulate mr salvador darriz for such an excellent report on the multiannual financial framework, a report which has received very strong support from the sure committee. i hope that this report will provide an important basis for the negotiations on the new multiannual budget of the european union, which are about to begin. i am very pleased that members have decided to support the amendment i proposed on strengthening youth policy. at a time when young europeans are among the main victims of the economic crisis, all initiatives aimed at improving the situation of young people, in particular their access to education and their professional situation, should be supported. this is why programmes such as 'youth in action' and 'lifelong learning' which have such low cost per beneficiary and very high efficiency should be maintained as a separate component of future multiannual financial frameworks and also deserve much higher funding. at the same time, i would like to commend the need to maintain a high level of funding for cohesion policy. cohesion policy not only plays an important role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, but its main task is to deepen european integration and solidarity by reducing the social, economic and territorial disparities that still exist in the european union.
we reached an important consensus. the report presented contains the necessary follow-up and expected changes. the eu's policies are characterised by stability, hence the proposal to maintain the current budget for cohesion and the common agricultural policy. balancing development levels serves well to strengthen the common market, which brings positive effects to all member states in the union. the common agricultural policy benefits every consumer in the union. it is worth remembering that farmers earn very low incomes, despite the support they receive from the european budget. the new challenges facing agriculture in the areas of environment, climate and welfare, and the unrealistic negotiations in the wto, are additional costs for farmers. who's gonna pay for this? the changes that are expected are more funding for sustainable, smart development, focus on innovation, research, education. (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
in writing. while the freezing of eu spending was justified during the economic crisis, today, when we think about the multiannual financial framework, we cannot use the arguments of two years ago. we must ask ourselves how the union will function in the next seven years: will it be a union of solidarity, one that delivers on its commitments and builds an innovative economy and a common foreign policy in line with the lisbon treaty? or the union, which has ambitious goals in the treaty but which everyone knows is a sham? i strongly support this first model and support the rapporteur's view that the next mff should be increased by 5% compared to the 2013 level. such a change will bring us closer to the ambitious treaty targets, and a mere 5% increase in spending is de facto a minimal increase in spending, as the inflation rate is currently 3.2%. moreover, this small increase in the eu budget benefits the poorest regions, which are the biggest beneficiaries of eu aid to make up for development gaps. i hope that the next polish presidency will make it a priority to reconcile the positions of the so-called net contributors: germany, france and the united kingdom, with the position of parliament expressed in the ambitious report by mr garriga polledo.
in writing. the new multiannual financial framework is very important. why would you do that? the future of the european union will depend to a large extent on them. the debate on the financial perspective is not easy, as many member states are feeling the effects of the economic crisis. the reluctance to increase the eu budget is understandable. however, financial sceptics should be aware of the benefits that the single market brings to the economies of individual member states. european integration has a positive and stimulating effect on the economy. the european parliament also wants the new financial framework to be structured in such a way as to increase competitiveness and promote social inclusion. the eu budget funds tasks that are of vital importance to the citizens of all member states. it's not an abstraction. cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy affect the daily lives of millions of citizens. there is no doubt that some of the eu's tasks could not be fulfilled from other sources. increasing social, economic and infrastructural cohesion and equalizing opportunities in the agricultural sector are objectives worth supporting. it's worth spending european money on. the european union cannot do more in more member states with less budget. it's not possible. that's why we need a bigger and more ambitious budget.
in writing. as the rapporteur writes, the european union's help is essential if the member states are to be able to meet the challenges ahead. the europe 2020 strategy sets the direction for this assistance, outlining the priorities and the vision of a strong, stable and modern europe. europe that learns from the recent economic problems. a europe that provides its people with jobs, energy security and healthy food. budgetary plans should take into account the key sustainable development objectives, while being flexible and targeted to specific actions. it is not necessary to recall the transparency and justification of the measures. social acceptance and understanding are now an integral part of eu policy and the basis for its functioning.
in writing. the poorest regions of the european union are now developing rapidly, thanks in part to european funds. although many new roads are being built or repaired and internet networks are being installed, there is still a great deal of need because the distance to the most developed regions is very long. when we joined the european union, there were concerns that poland and the new member states would not take full advantage of the opportunities offered by membership and that european funds would be spent in a reckless manner. there were also concerns about corruption, because opportunity - that is, big money - makes a thief. however, analyses show that european money is well spent in poland and is not subject to unfair practices. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 june. even if the european parliament votes to increase the european budget, which i hope it will, it is important now to convince individual countries that it is worth supporting the political position of the parliament.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr salvador garridze on the comprehensive report and the impressive work on the compromise amendments. i agree with the rapporteur that cohesion policy, which has proved its worth, should find its proper place in the new multiannual financial framework. however, better coordination and complementarity between the different funds and simplification of procedures should be pursued. changes to the control and management systems of the funds, which are intended to increase the effectiveness of their interventions, should be based on a thorough analysis of their current functioning. i also support the view that unused appropriations should remain in the cohesion budget and not go back to the member states. i also believe that a careful analysis of the possible implications of the inclusion of the european development fund in the union budget is necessary, especially in the light of the eu's commitments towards third countries.
in writing. the creation of the so-called transition regions proposed in the report means that the relatively rich areas of the poorer member states will continue to receive support and will be able to gradually prepare themselves for the total loss of these additional funds. for the main beneficiaries of cohesion policy, who must think long term, considering the possibility of such a group of regions is certainly a very positive solution. if parliament were to adopt such a proposal today, it would be a very important voice in the debate on the future shape of cohesion policy.
in writing. the report by mr garriga polledo focuses on the union 2020 programme. i believe that the conversion of large amounts of money to this programme could lead to a reduction in the funding of programmes important for cohesion and european development, such as the cohesion fund. the results show that the fund is by far the most effective instrument for achieving the objectives of the treaty on european union and the treaty of lisbon. it is therefore important that its resources be increased. many european countries have been hit hard by the economic crisis, and the cohesion fund is now a lever for them to actively combat unemployment and to boost the regions. on the other hand, it is important that the union financially supports energy projects and innovation. these two investment divisions are key to the rapid development of the european community. two thirds of energy raw materials are currently imported from countries outside the union, mainly from russia. this means a significant outflow of capital beyond our borders, and we should therefore allocate more resources to support infrastructure investments that allow for the diversification of supply and thus lower their price, including the most important element of diversification, the nabucco pipeline. the report also lacks clear guidance on support for shale gas exploration in the coming years. the union must not forget that by investing wisely in energy today, it saves capital tomorrow.
i would like to make it clear that the recommendations adopted by parliament today are not so clear-cut in polish circumstances. these recommendations will lead to higher transport costs and will clearly be at a disadvantage to carriers with older transport. the positive side is that additional resources will be created that can be invested in sustainable transport, in particular the opportunity to develop high-speed rail and waterways. but i want to subscribe to the statements of those colleagues who say that there are not only positive things here. these recommendations will also cause a whole series of complications for a very large number of carriers in my country.
i voted against the audy report. i cannot accept a document that blocks the indect project. i do not agree with the statement that the project being carried out at the famous krakow university, the academy of mining and metallurgy, is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights. the aim of his research is to implement resolutions on combating paedophilia, the sale of arms via the internet, the fight against drug trafficking and human trafficking, which are topics we have discussed many times in this chamber. this is an innovative project that perfectly fills the gaps in the security systems of the eu member states, especially at the internet level. he's targeting lawbreakers, and they're the ones who might be most afraid of his assumptions. moreover, it is a good basis for building an integrated security network to defend against cyber attacks. russia has these solutions, the united states has them, china has them, and for some years now we have not been able to see them at the level of the european union. so i don't understand why the funding for the whole project has been withheld, especially since it's the only project that was treated like this in the report of mr. audy.
although the european parliament has repeatedly recognised the benefits to the internal market of an improved contract law framework, the introduction of a new contract law system through an optional instrument faces a number of serious problems, both substantive and procedural. first of all, the proposals presented reflect the commission's position, which is not supported by a substantive public debate. we therefore do not know the positions of individual member states, including representatives of business and consumer circles. as some of the proposed documents on which case law will be based appear to be unclear, this may lead to divergent legal interpretations. finally, the introduction of an optional instrument would have a significant economic impact on businesses and consumers. the costs of the required training, the exchange of standard contract forms and possible legal proceedings can be very high. it seems unreasonable to impose additional financial burdens on companies in these difficult economic times. on the basis of the above, i voted to reject the report.
the economic crisis, demographic problems and rising unemployment are all having a major impact on the budgetary constraints of the member states. a european budget with long-term planning capabilities should therefore be an instrument to support the development of national economies. the europe 2020 strategy, which encourages job creation and social inclusion, seems to be an important element in helping to overcome the crisis. in this respect, it is particularly important that small and medium-sized enterprises are also covered. i therefore agree with the demand for greater support for all programmes and instruments to support these enterprises, including programmes for competitiveness, innovation and the use of the structural funds. the greatest challenge for the european union will be to maintain its competitiveness, boost growth and combat unemployment. i therefore stress the urgent need to promote growth through investment in the knowledge-based economy. strengthening the link between education, research and employment will foster integration, mobility and specialisation.
in writing. - the european parliament voted today on the report by carlos coelho entitled 'the application of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania'. it is worth noting that the completion of the process of preparing these countries for accession coincides with the theme of the eu's migration policy and the growing resistance of some schengen area countries to its enlargement plans. it is worth noting that romania and bulgaria have fulfilled almost all the requirements imposed on them, in particular: land, air and sea border control, visa issuance, police cooperation and data protection. we must also not forget that it is the eu's border countries that are facing the problem of illegal immigration. sofia and bucharest are joint applicants and the preparations made so far by both countries are highly appreciated, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! today, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the application of all the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania. these countries, when they joined the european union in 2007, adopted only part of the schengen area legislation and apply it to this limited extent to this day. this situation results in border controls still being carried out at the borders of these countries. when they joined the eu, these countries were not ready to accept the full schengen package and therefore had to reform and complement their border control policies. in addition, the border section between bulgaria, turkey and greece, which is one of the most vulnerable to illegal immigration, is a very important problem. since bulgaria and romania joined the eu, they have taken a number of measures to prepare and protect their borders. throughout this period, the schengen evaluation working group has carried out systematic inspections and checks which have now shown that both countries are sufficiently prepared to apply the provisions of the schengen acquis to a satisfactory degree.
in writing. - at a time when there is increasingly talk of a crisis of confidence in the european union, the overwhelming support for the libe opinion by the majority of meps should be seen as a signal that the idea of european integration is still relevant. the fact that bulgaria and romania have an external eu border cannot be seen as a barrier to their accession to the schengen area. the objective of the accession criteria was to ensure the highest possible level of security. the experts confirm that the relevant technical standards have been implemented. countries have fulfilled their requirements to the extent that border controls with other eu countries can be abolished. it should be stressed that the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen, as in the case of my country, would not mean the end of the work on the full implementation of the cooperation tools. both countries will have a lot of work to do to create good practices. the example of poland clearly shows that the new member states are able to effectively implement the requirements imposed by schengen. in the opinion of libe, with appropriate monitoring by the european institutions, we have the chance to achieve the next stage of the political project, which is the area of security, freedom and justice. the european parliament should play a key role in this process and must be kept informed of the situation in bulgaria and romania.
in writing. - bulgaria and romania should join the schengen area, both countries are prepared to do so and the objections of some member states are unjustified.
in writing. − a rapidly ageing european society requires innovative solutions in diverse fields to enable it to function efficiently despite the decline in the labour force. similar challenges are posed by climate change, unexpected resource shortages and biological threats, such as the recent e. coli situation in vegetables. the key to finding solutions to these unusual situations is to invest in science and technology. unfortunately, despite much debate on this subject, the action taken in europe has been ineffective. and this is a threat to our continent, to an economy that is not self-sufficient, but is also vulnerable to the domination of the fast-growing economies of china, india and brazil. financial support and simplification of legal procedures for scientific development should be a priority for the eu. you know, you stand still, you back off.
in writing. - article 27 of this report contains information which is not true. the statement that indect constantly monitors the internet and personal computers is not true, as confirmed by the ethical review that indect underwent on 15 march 2011 in brussels, with the participation of experts from austria, france, the netherlands, germany and the united kingdom. the ethical audit was positive for indect and no deficiencies related to the ethical aspects of the project were found. indect has been continuously monitored by the european commission since its inception. the commission has not found any deficiencies so far. moreover, this item does not fit into the report as a whole and is specifically targeted at the indect project, leaving out other similar projects that are financed by european union funds. the main objective of the indect (english: intelligent information system supporting observation, searching and detection for security of citizens in urban environment) project, conducted by the academy of mining and metallurgy in kraków, is to develop research on information technologies that increase the security of residents of urbanized areas. indect is designed to detect threats through monitoring, including in particular pornography, arms, drugs or human organ trafficking, as well as to protect data and privacy.
in writing. − four years have passed since the introduction of the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. against the backdrop of the changing economic situation in the world and at a time when europe is slowly trying to recover from the economic crisis, it shows the validity and importance of the issues for which the programme was created. global competition from major economic powers such as china, india and brazil requires special measures to gain the technological advantage needed to successfully implement the european union's strategy. the right investment in research and development translates into the sustainable construction of a knowledge-based society, which is one of the most important components of economic strength. the report raises the important issue of insufficient cooperation between member states and the flow of information, which leads to duplication of projects. another worrying issue is the uneven participation of all member states, which results in an increase in disparities in such an important area as research and technological development, which is a complete reversal of the objectives of the seventh framework programme. the economic crisis has left some member states without the opportunity to support the programme, and it is a challenge for the community to assess and provide support to those in need. the programme will run for two more years, and the level of budgetary utilization is not above 50% (eur 54 billion for 2007-2013), which should increase the commitment of the responsible actors and allow the best possible use of the available funds.
in writing. − given that the european union is canada's second most important trading partner and that canada is a significant partner of the union in terms of foreign direct investment, i voted in favour of the draft resolution on 'eu-canada trade relations'. i would also like to point out that poland is canada's largest trading partner among the countries of central and eastern europe and has maintained a year-on-year surplus in its trade with canada for the past dozen years. today's vote is an important step forward, and it's a good sign for the future.
in writing. − economic relations between the eu and canada are crucial to the development of the eu-canada dialogue. the eu is canada's most important trading partner, next to the us, while canada is the eu's 11th most important trading partner. the ongoing negotiations on a comprehensive trade agreement aim to reach a very broad agreement, with more ambitious objectives than the trade agreements negotiated so far by the eu or canada, which could further strengthen the already strong bilateral trade and investment ties. citing a joint report by eu and canadian experts, the ceta is intended to provide tangible economic benefits that will result from trade liberalisation and the elimination of tariff barriers. however, there are still some problems associated with this agreement which may have a negative impact on the eu's agricultural sector. i think that the differences between the eu and canadian sanitary and phytosanitary standards need to be addressed. in addition, the compatibility of canadian environmental standards with eu standards needs to be improved. i therefore consider it necessary to carry out a detailed analysis and evaluation of those standards.
in writing. - people are everything. this is why it is so important to promote employment and social standards. the rural population, especially women and young people, are a good example. men are the majority of farm owners. i think we should support women to make these proportions equal. i also think it is important to support young farmers who are taking over from their parents. as regards young people, the quality of education in rural areas needs to be improved and young people should be given access to learning and personal development outside the rural areas. another important issue is corporate social responsibility. this means that companies, on their own initiative and independently of legal regulations, take action for society and the environment in their daily activities. businesses are no longer just about profit. they are becoming increasingly sensitive to social and environmental issues.
in writing. - considering mr falbra's report to be a good one, i would like to explain why i decided to vote in favour of it. the promotion of high labour standards, social standards and corporate social responsibility is a very important challenge for the external dimension of social policy. one of the problems the rapporteur has highlighted is the inadequate efficiency of the administrative bodies responsible for employment policy. sustained and constructive cooperation, both by the european union as a whole and by individual member states, with third countries can serve as a source of good practice in the area of building the appropriate administrative capacity. i believe that cooperation at regional and local level and between businesses also brings good results. the cooperation of polish regions with the eastern partnership countries over the past few years is a perfect example of the positive effects of partnership, support and exchange of experience.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the external social policy of the european union, as it is directed towards non-member countries, should be above all coherent, pragmatic and uniform. social policy, both internally and externally, should promote labour standards as well as social standards, which is one of the union's key objectives. therefore, all member states which conclude agreements with third countries should reflect the european social model in their attitude. non-eu countries should be required to respect the right to association and to take action to prevent discrimination on grounds of sex or age. the elimination of child labour is a very important issue, as is the right of citizens to improve their professional skills. in the context of development cooperation, the european union has sufficient resources to create sufficient structures in the field of education or vocational training. it is very important that the european commission, which negotiates the partnership agreements, adapts its negotiations to the level and the realities of the country concerned. the european parliament, whose powers have increased since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, should actively cooperate with european and international trade unions to improve the social situation.
in writing. - mr president, in the age of a europe without frontiers, education, especially in the international context, is a fundamental step in the planning of the working life of citizens. young people should be able to take advantage of the opportunities to gain knowledge and experience that their country's membership of the european union brings. the increasing demand for mobile, versatile workers is fostering this lifestyle. the problem of youth unemployment remains a worrying one. the question of how to combat this dangerous phenomenon is becoming a pressing issue. every investment in education helps to ensure a better future for young people. it is therefore of particular importance that european funds be used to launch specific programmes in the field of vocational training and development. i therefore agree with the need to develop tools to support lifelong learning, i.e. the systematic upgrading of skills. creative and effective education programmes should enable the europe 2020 headline target of reaching the 40% higher education threshold to be achieved.
in writing. − the draft resolution pays particular attention to the training of young people and points to the need for practical training. providing access to appropriate education and training is absolutely essential if people are to find employment in their field without difficulty after finishing school, study or vocational training. employment, let's emphasize that, with good conditions and a decent salary. economic problems are not projected to alter the upward trend in employment in the eu and should not lead to a reduction in funding for important eu programmes in the field of education and vocational training, such as the lifelong learning programme. these measures should be even increased so that everyone, regardless of age, gender or place of residence, has access to the same educational and career opportunities.
in writing. - as co-rapporteur of the report by ms nadja hirsch on european cooperation in vocational education and training, i would like to explain why i voted in favour of this report. at a time when ageing societies on the one hand and alarming levels of youth unemployment on the other are posing very serious challenges to europe, vocational training and education have a crucial role to play. therefore, while seeking to support vocational education and training in the future, the highest priority should be given to monitoring the effectiveness of training and to an approach aimed at achieving the goal of increasing employment and social inclusion. i believe that vocational training and education must be closely linked to the labour market, which is characterised by constant adaptation to economic, demographic and social changes. the flexibility of the esf management and its complementarity with other european employment instruments and national measures seem to be of particular importance. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a successful and comprehensive report and thank her for her excellent cooperation. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - education, vocational training and the universal concept of lifelong learning are building the future of european integration. the european union is committed to the development of a europe of integration, which is faced with new challenges in support of the europe 2020 strategy. we must face the alarmingly high rate of unemployment among young people. the issues of vocational education and training are becoming a priority for us. for people at the beginning of their career, the effects of unemployment can have a negative impact on their future employment. education, training and vocational training enable people to move freely in the labour market in line with changing circumstances and demands in a given sector of the economy. it is worth noting and supporting the purpose and benefits of existing crossborder education programmes, such as leonardo da vinci. they enable you to acquire the characteristics of a mobile worker. the difficulties created by the natural diversity of individual labour markets are countered by mobility, which gives young workers access to a vast european labour market full of new challenges and opportunities to use their experience. the member states are given tasks to enable supervision and to help establish cooperation and exchange of information between schools, training establishments, research centres and enterprises. young workers bring new knowledge, skills and experience to the eu labour market.
in writing. - i think that the very good report by mr gay mitchell raises a number of important issues, which is why i have decided to support it. i think that in considering the future shape of financial instruments for development, we must first of all remember that the overriding objective of development policy should be the gradual reduction of dependence on aid and, ultimately, the complete independence of the country concerned. financial instruments should therefore be structured in such a way as to ensure sustainable economic growth in developing countries. achieving this objective is closely linked to the predictability of development aid, as only on the basis of such aid can partner countries build an adequate and effective development strategy, while mobilising their national revenues. i also think it is very important to increase the european parliament's control and influence over the european development fund. i believe that the lack of democratic control over this fund is detrimental to the transparency of development policy.
in writing. i voted for this report. the report summarises the principles that should guide the development cooperation financing process. the european union's objectives in establishing this instrument are to provide specific community aid to developing countries. in the present economic crisis, the problems of the poorer nations are becoming more apparent. the development cooperation instrument aims to assist poorer partner countries in the areas of trade and regional integration, environment and natural resource management, infrastructure, water and energy, rural development, agriculture and food security, human development and social cohesion. we also want to promote the evolution of systems of government, democracy, human rights, as well as economic and institutional reforms and to prevent conflicts and the weakening of the state. all of the above objectives are of crucial importance for strengthening security in the poorest regions. helping other countries to build stable democratic societies in rule of law, with respect for human rights and freedom of expression, with a strong judicial system, territorial defence and military is a commendable plan. i hope we can make it more widespread, using resources even more efficiently.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the report by angelica niebler is an important contribution to the debate on how to improve the eu's legislative process so that new law is more citizen-friendly and genuinely needed. unfortunately, there are also allegations that regulations are being created that are merely the result of the will of the eu institutions or the work of lobbyists. hence the need to continuously improve the procedures for assessing the impact of legislation. as rapporteur for 'better lawmaking' in recent years, i would like to draw attention to several aspects of this problem. first, it is necessary to maintain the institutional balance enshrined in the treaty, whereby the european commission proposes legislation and parliament and the council adopt it. the independence of impact assessments is a very important aspect, but it cannot be taken out of parliament's democratic control. i consider that improving impact assessments following the introduction of parliamentary amendments is a very important requirement, and i also share the view that uniform impact assessment criteria should be applied in all institutions. at the same time, i would point out that the political will to solve a problem is paramount in law-making, and the impact assessment prepared with a project is only intended to provide objective information.
in writing. − 27 legal regimes are one of the most significant barriers faced by eu businesses and consumers seeking to benefit from the internal market. the ongoing work on the creation of an alternative eu contract law is encouraging, especially in the context of the eu's 'digital agenda for europe' and the potential of e-commerce for the single market.
in writing. − 60% of online transactions in the european union fail mainly because of the fear of transaction participants of unfamiliar legal systems in other member states. in this situation, many eu citizens are deprived of access to the online marketplace. the differences between the legal systems of the member states constitute in this case a barrier to the proper functioning of the union market. i therefore believe that the optional instrument known as the 28th legal regime has the potential to help unlock the potential of the european e-commerce market and to broaden the market for businesses while guaranteeing consumers equal access to goods and services.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! today the european parliament adopted a resolution on moving beyond gdp to measure progress in a changing world. gross domestic product is a widely used index to measure social development and economic progress. however, its universality is questionable because it does not take into account a number of indicators that are relevant to the quality of life in a country. some significant parameters are also misread. the commission suggests that an indicator should be developed that clearly reflects the situation in a country, including the condition of households and individuals, the efficiency of the use of resources and the state of the environment. the commission expects member states to make a greater effort to systematise quality of life surveys in society, which would allow for clear comparisons between countries. a coherent policy would facilitate the analysis of research and the prediction of potential development in countries over the longer term.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by the european parliament is our first contribution to the debate on the future financial perspective. i strongly support the proposal to increase the budget of the european union in the forthcoming budgetary perspective. i believe that the european union needs an ambitious budget that responds to the challenges we face. the reduction or freezing of the european budget, which is being proposed by some member states, is not a good solution for the european economy. the european budget must be a budget that supports member states in their recovery from the crisis and that can respond more flexibly to unforeseen events. i also welcome the parliament's support for the concept of intermediate regions to ensure their continued development despite the current 75% of eu gdp threshold being exceeded. the introduction of this category will help regions, including in the near future the polish regions, which, despite exceeding the eu average, still face many development challenges.
in writing. - today, in the vote on the report by mr garriga polledo, 'investing in the future - a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and socially inclusive europe', i abstained on the amendments tabled by the s&d, greens/efa and gue/ngl groups concerning the proposal to the european commission to introduce a financial transaction tax. i could not support this solution, although i am a strong supporter of the introduction of a tax representing the community's own income. the european tax will guarantee the attainment of community objectives without the constraints imposed by the position of the member states, which too often sacrifice the interests of the community in the name of short-term objectives. however, i do not think it is reasonable to insist that the financial transaction tax should be imposed only within the european union. we are faced with the challenge of making the european economy the most competitive in the world, and the idea of creating burdens that cause capital to flow out of europe is unacceptable in my view. similarly, i consider attempts to introduce a carbon tax as an alternative to the ftt to be extremely damaging.
in writing. - i have today advocated the creation of so-called transition regions and i am pleased that this is the position taken by the whole parliament. this decision will continue to support relatively rich areas of poorer member states (such as mazowsze and warsaw). the ep's position adopted today is the first success in the battle to shape the new financial perspective for 2014-2020. the key element for poland, including warsaw, will be the size of the funds and the priorities set by the cohesion fund.
this debate reminds me of another debate a few months ago about media laws in hungary. that debate, and this one, are just a pretext to attack hungary. european political correctness cannot tolerate that there is a country in europe where conservatism is triumphant, that there is a country in europe where the national interest is being effectively pursued, a country that has returned to its true values. this is an attack on the hungarian government for successfully rebuilding the country after half a century of bankrupt communist rule and their political cronies. now it's time to write the constitution. when european political correctness violently renounces its christian roots, the hungarians have dared to proudly inscribe it in their constitution. while brussels is promoting cosmopolitanism, budapest is highlighting the nation's heroic past. hungarians have put their national identity, their state and common sense first. the world is finally on its feet. communism is defined as tyranny, marriage is finally a union between a man and a woman. i hope that future generations of hungarians will be proud of this good constitution.
it strikes at this discussion and the criticism of the hungarian constitution, it must be said, hypocrisy and double standards. on the one hand, the constitution is accused of not appealing to god, not appealing to christianity and not protecting so-called homosexual marriages, and yet such accusations can easily be made against many european constitutions, including, for example, the polish constitution, which also provides for such provisions, or does not provide for the latter. and very well, because this is an internal matter of poland. this is also the aim of the european treaty. we should not violate this treaty of ours sanctioning the european union. the lack of democracy in the creation of this constitution is blamed, and the fact that the vast majority of the hungarian people supported this constitution is ignored. this hypocrisy is also evident in the fact that when in practice in hungary the previous socialist government brought their country to the brink of bankruptcy, using force, tried to shut the mouth of the opposition, when they protested at democratic rallies and assemblies, then they themselves did not protest, which is what they are shouting so loudly against hungary and prime minister orban today. hold on to your hats!
in writing. i believe that the european parliament has the right to debate the legal solutions contained in the constitutions of the member states. we live in one europe and our citizens have the right to reside without any barriers in any member state. however, we must remember that the european nations are sovereign in establishing the basic law. the experience of different countries, their nationalities are different. and the hungarians have the right to pass a constitution that doesn't mention, for example, a human rights ombudsman or a personal data ombudsman. when i hear members talking about the hungarian parliament's breach of the basic principles of the european union, i have the impression that i do not share the principles you are talking about. first of all, i congratulate the hungarians on their new constitution. the overwhelming majority of hungarians who support the new regulations is particularly impressive. this is very impressive and is proof that the hungarian people have completely cut off from the tradition of communist legislation that created the previous constitution.
on behalf of the ecr group. european union countries need effective tools to combat crime, especially the most serious crime, organised crime. and in this sense, it must be said that the european arrest warrant is a certain response to this need, especially in view of the fact that freedom of movement in the european union is enjoyed not only by the majority of honest citizens, but also by criminals who do not use their right for tourism or business purposes, but for criminal activity or to evade responsibility, which they may be held liable for in their own country or in the country where they committed the crime. so it's good that this instrument exists and works, but it's also good that it's monitored. every new institution has its advantages, but also its shortcomings, which are worth pointing out and considering how to improve. in this case, i think it's worth considering whether to limit the use of the ena to these very minor offences, for example those that are punishable by up to 2 years in prison. we have to seriously consider this. the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card, in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.
thank you so much for asking. we are aware of the problem, which the honourable member has been kind enough to point out. polish courts are very strict about these records and apply them to seemingly trivial cases. given that many of our countrymen are in london, for example, it is not uncommon for such orders to be issued in questionable cases. it therefore seems appropriate for the commission to consider introducing more general arrangements, which may also apply to other countries, so that in very minor cases such an injunction cannot be applied, for example in the case of sentences of up to two years' imprisonment, but only in the case of serious penalties for which it has been established.
the european arrest warrant is intended to ensure the law and order and the security of citizens of the european union. freedom of movement for persons must not favour criminals who evade responsibility for offences committed in another member state. however, a worrying sign regarding the application of the warrant is the recent commission report and commissioner reding's statement that member states should ensure that it is applied correctly and that the warrant should not be issued mechanically or automatically for relatively minor offences. these words reveal the abuses that can occur when the judicial system seizes an arrest warrant. therefore, while fully supporting the efforts to ensure the maximum level of security for citizens of the union, i call on the commission to monitor the application of the injunction and to take action to exclude irregularities in the use by the courts of this procedural institution.
the most important, in my opinion, in terms of relations with russia are energy policy and human rights. by using the gas argument in its foreign policy, russia is pursuing the strategic goal of subjugating individual countries. only in recent days, using blackmail, the russian authorities have been putting pressure on ukraine, making the change in gas prices dependent on its joining the russian customs union or the merger of gazprom with naftogaz. the above actions are clearly torpedoing the talks on the establishment of an eu-ukraine free trade area. long-term gas supply contracts are also an element of influence on the policies of the member states of the union. the european commission's position that the agreement concluded by the polish government is incompatible with eu law is therefore to be welcomed. already, russian gas prices for central europe are almost twice as high as those offered to western countries. the discrediting of shale gas projects by the russians is a further cause for concern. the human rights problem is most clearly seen in the case of mikhail khodorkovsky. the issue of this issue being raised at the summit remains a non-discussible issue in the context of the ruling of the european court of human rights on the illegality of the detention and arrest of a russian businessman.
the partnership between the european union and russia requires responsibility. also liabilities to third countries. i would like to draw the commission's attention to this paragraph of the resolution which calls on russia not to use the supply of energy resources as an instrument to influence the policies of its neighbours. this is the case in ukraine, where during the last meeting between prime minister putin and prime minister azarov of ukraine, prime minister putin said bluntly that the condition for the reduction and renegotiation of the gas contract is ukraine's entry into a customs union with russia, belarus and kazakhstan, which would mean giving up on ukraine's european plans and aspirations. this is blackmail in the most direct way. in the absence of such renegotiation, gas prices at the russian-ukrainian border could reach eur 500 per 1000 m3. ukraine is already paying the most for russian gas in europe, even though it is the closest to the source of that gas. this situation could lead to a very serious economic, social crisis in ukraine. i would like to say that in the situation where we are successfully negotiating with ukraine today to join or create a free trade area, and in the near future to join ukraine as an allied country in relations with the european union, the european union has its obligations towards ukraine. i call on the commission to make a clear call to russia to stop this kind of practice and not to do it.
the biggest sin in the union's relations with russia is inconsistency, weakness and lack of awareness of its own strength. the model issue here is nord stream. first, we make energy solidarity one of the main european principles in the lisbon treaty, and then we agree as the union to the nord stream project, which is geopolitically harmful to poland and other new member states. that's why we have to talk tough on every issue on the commissioner's immediate agenda. when it comes to the wto, russia has to follow certain rules. first let him let georgian wine into his market, and then let him dream of joining the wto. on the visa issue, russia needs to hear that visa liberalisation will come first with the eastern partnership countries and then with russia. the exception may be the kaliningrad region. on the energy issue, russia needs to hear our opposition to another blackmail against ukraine, as well as our opposition to the actions of the russian influence agency that is trying to disable shale gas extraction in poland and in europe. this is a great opportunity to break free from russia.
in the run-up to the eu-russia summit and in the context of the negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement, it is important that the union not only speaks with one voice but also demonstrates its unity and solidarity with russia in practice. energy solidarity is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, but russia does not accept it, as exemplified by the nord stream project. the attempt to isolate some new countries in the european union by means of an energy wedge cannot be accepted, and this must be clearly stated at the summit. it is also expected to recognise the european aspirations of georgia, moldova and ukraine and to call on russia to stop exerting political pressure on these countries. in addition, it should be remembered that russia is a special democracy with a very high rate of corruption.
i expect, commissioner, that the summit will be about modernization. i would just like to remind you that the modernization of russia is not only economic issues, not only energy issues, but also political modernization, the relationship between the government and the people. i'm asking you to take up the matter. it's also russia's relations with its neighbors and with its so-called sphere of influence. i would like to say very clearly that the agreement between the european union and ukraine, the association agreement, is also beneficial for russia and that we are watching with great concern the very strong political pressure on ukraine on the eve of the conclusion of the negotiations, in the last phase of these negotiations. we ask you to make that very clear to the russian side. these are very important elements of mutual trust between the institutions of the european union and the member states and russia.
the eu-russia summit will probably cover a wide range of issues, but one of the most important is probably energy security. russia has been conducting an extremely intense campaign for several months to exclude its gas infrastructure from the rules of the third energy package, from the rules of our antitrust law, which prohibits simultaneous, parallel control of the raw material and the transmission network. we have visits to brussels by minister szmatko, president kramer of south stream and president miller of gazprom. this is a big campaign. russia needs to hear the very clear position of the european union on this issue, that we are not going to apply a preferential tariff to russia, that we want the central european gas market to be more competitive, to be more demonopolised. commissioner, can you tell us clearly whether the european commission is prepared to make such declarations at the summit?
before the upcoming summit, we can indeed say that the european union lacks a single and coherent strategy towards russia, and the current pragmatic cooperation based on a strategy of small steps can very easily be broken at the first better crisis, as happened in 2008 during the war with georgia or after the cutting off of gas supplies in 2009. in the context of this latest event, it is very important to emphasise the meaning of the word 'diversification', which in europe is often synonymous with the construction of a large number of different gas pipelines from russia. the construction of the south and nord stream pipelines is considered as diversification. the eu should, however, focus on securing gas supplies from sources other than russia: promoting the nabucco pipeline from azerbaijan more, investing in gas ports and shale gas exploration. it is also very important to continue to put pressure on the russian authorities at various levels to improve the human rights situation in russia. in addition to the eu-russia summit discussions, the twice-yearly consultations involving representatives of the european union and diplomats from the russian ministry of foreign affairs should be strongly strengthened.
i think the russian authorities should hear that we expect them to be held accountable. russia can be a very important partner for the european union, for example, in resolving some of the unresolved, frozen conflicts in europe. i think the russian authorities should hear that while vegetables and gas are important, they should stop supporting the separatists in transnistria, that we expect russia to stop supplying arms to azerbaijan and armenia because it is very dangerous for the future of the region, and that we also expect russia to fulfill its obligations under the 2008 agreement that concerns georgia. we expect the withdrawal of russian troops from abkhazia and south ossetia, we expect russia to respect georgia's right to think and decide its own future.
in addition to what mr lisek said on georgia, and recalling what many members have said on ukraine, i think that there should be a few words - or many more - on belarus at tomorrow's summit. remember that for many months we have been dealing with a very deep political crisis there, for at least a few months we have been dealing with a deep economic crisis, and we are dealing with pressure on belarus from russia, perhaps much stronger and more effective than the pressure on ukraine today. de facto russia is trying to take over the entire economy, the strategic sectors of the belarusian economy, taking advantage of this dramatic situation of the belarusian economy. i ask one thing. if russia decides to help, and we know that it has decided to help belarus, then the european union should demand that russia make its aid conditional on respect for human rights. these are supposedly values that we share with the russians, which the russians often repeat, so they should help us to introduce them to belarus. otherwise, they'll be responsible for financing the lukashenka regime.
the european union is in talks with russia about the energy future, but a new group is now being set up, from what i understand, to discuss the third energy package in the context of gas security. and i would ask you, commissioner, and commissioner oettinger to keep the european parliament informed of the progress of the talks and the outcome of the negotiations of this group. we'd also like to know who's gonna be on the negotiating team. i was told by one of the representatives of the russian energy company that they, as a company, would be involved in these negotiations. i'd like to know if that's true and if representatives of big companies will be involved in the negotiations on the russian side. it is also very important to the european parliament that competition law in the energy sector is respected without any exceptions. during the recent presentations of the south stream investment plans in brussels, it was clear that russia and gazprom wanted privileges and special status. we can't agree to that.
nuclear safety issues both in the member states and in those neighbouring the community should be the subject of particular attention by the european union. following the fukushima nuclear power plant accident in japan, the commission announced endurance tests for eu power plants. it's a very good sign and a very good decision. we're waiting for it to be implemented. in view of the safety of all europeans, particular attention should be paid to the appropriate use of all available means to raise safety standards and eliminate potential risks from nuclear energy. power stations located not only in the member states but also in countries bordering the community are potentially at risk. the union's member states should also be given the necessary incentives and support to carry out reliable endurance tests of union power plants. i would also like to stress the profound need to invest in both nuclear research and other important research to anticipate and prevent accidents and their negative consequences in the future.
following the fukushima disaster, public concern about the safety of nuclear power plants in europe has increased. it's understandable, you know. the reports coming in from japan are sometimes frightening, they are terrifying, they indicate a huge contamination of the land. none of us would want a repeat of this in europe any more than we would want a repeat of chernobyl. but all the more so to allay public fears everything must be done to guarantee the safety of nuclear energy in europe. that's why stress tests are so important. but it is also important that they be of a high standard, that they guarantee objectivity, that they give certainty and credibility that their implementation is based on the anticipation of emergencies, crisis situations, which may happen in europe as they did in japan. we must do everything we can to restore security and confidence in this energy source in europe. however, other energy sources, such as unconventional shale gas, must also be considered.
for many years, nuclear power was considered the energy of the future: green, efficient, zero-emission. the chernobyl and more recently the fukushima disasters have shown the other side of the coin. but today we cannot, as the left would like, have the task of carrying out 'stress tests' in order to find a pretext for abandoning the atomic bomb in europe by interpreting the results in a biased way. today, our aim must be to improve the safety of nuclear power stations, to reassure the public and to change the negative image of nuclear energy in europe. that should be our priority today. that is why i do not understand the voices of the left who are talking about another tax on nuclear energy and the final abandonment of this type of energy source. this path, in the absence of alternative sources, will lead to skyrocketing electricity prices. today, europe needs to revise nuclear law in terms of the competences of the member states, to establish common standards and to optimise safety standards in the union. the 'stress tests' must provide a response to the security situation, taking into account all possible forms of threats from terrorist attacks to power cuts.
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that today the european union is changing its internal policy regarding nuclear safety, but at the same time, we are beginning work on external energy policy. at one point in the future these policies should be merged. the nuclear stress tests should not only help the commission revise the safety directive, but should also be included in the commission report on the external dimension of energy policy which will soon be published. stress tests and energy safety should form a crucial part of our energy dialogue with third countries. we need to ensure that new plants in kaliningrad and belarus are subject to the same standards and tests as such facilities in the european union, especially now that russia wants to invest in nuclear power plants.
the standards used in russia are completely different from those adopted in the european union. just mention human rights, the right to organize, or the ruthless exploitation of natural resources to exert political pressure on countries like the european union. the nord stream pipeline is a prime example of this. the negotiations under way are a test for the european union and for our future position as a partner or a customer.
in writing. - the union needs a new opening in relations with russia, as many new challenges have emerged since the last joint summit and we cannot overcome them without strengthening cooperation. today, the european community speaks with one voice against russia's policy of fomenting frozen conflicts and attempts by moscow to interfere in the politics of independent states formerly part of the soviet union, such as georgia. we are increasingly concerned by the continuing attacks on press freedom and independent journalists. we need to speak up in our meetings about press freedom in russia. moscow's compliance with it must be our priority. i disagree with the paragraph condemning the russians for blocking the equality parade in moscow and for not recognizing the rights of same-sex couples to marry and adopt children. i believe that each country has the right to pursue its own independent policy towards the gay and lesbian movements. the union, respecting the culture of its neighbours, should not interfere in matters of morality and axiology.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! in the context of the upcoming eu-russia summit, the european parliament adopted today a resolution proposing the topics to be discussed at the summit. the document also draws attention to the important challenges that should be addressed by joint action between russia and the european union. first of all, it should be stressed that the eu and the russian federation have a stable relationship and that their good neighbourly relations have an impact on stability and security not only within the european continent. at the same time, the two entities are economically and politically interdependent. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu-russia summit brings progress on visa-free travel and energy security. the european parliament also calls on the russian federation to increase its commitment to action to combat climate change, mainly by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. in the light of the upcoming elections to the state duma, it is equally important that the elections take place in accordance with the rules established by the council of europe and the osce. the question of the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in russia, which is a member of the council of europe, should also be raised.
in writing. - i support the adoption of a resolution on the eu-russia summit. we should talk about the issues of the unresolved conflicts in moldova, georgia and nagorno-karabakh. russian activity in these regions prevents the stabilisation of the situation and a peaceful solution. the question of energy resources and the costs that eu countries have to pay russia for them is also a very important one. the issue of the ban on the import of eu vegetables into the russian market needs to be resolved urgently. the financial impact of this on the summertime is huge for the producers. however, i disagree with paragraph 17 of the resolution attacking russia for not recognizing gay and lesbian rights to marry and adopt children, and condemning russia for blocking the equality parades. the granting of such rights should be a matter for the sovereignty of each country. solutions, traditions and patterns that are socially accepted in some countries of the union are foreign to russia. the european community, respecting the cultural traditions of the russians, should not therefore put pressure on moscow on this issue, leaving the issue of sexual minorities' rights to marriage and adoption to national legislation.
in writing. - the european parliament, with the adoption of today's resolution, is once again calling for the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. the practice of offering business directory listings to companies under the false impression that it is a free service is becoming more and more common. unfortunately, when the information is supplemented, it turns out that the entrepreneur actually undertook to pay a certain amount for a certain period of time. this type of practice is complained about by entrepreneurs to the european parliament. we therefore want the european commission to check how member states have implemented the provisions of directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising. the european parliament also calls for the issue of misleading business directories to be taken into account in the review of this directive. in today's resolution, we also return to the proposal already made in the european parliament's 2008 resolution on the same issue, namely the idea of a blacklist of unfair practices by companies that maintain business directories. i hope that the european commission will not hesitate to take appropriate action to protect small and medium-sized enterprises from these unfair practices.
in writing. − the number of complaints the ep has received about misleading business directories and their often cross-border nature demonstrate the need to improve eu regulation in this area.
on behalf of the ppe group. in our resolution, we condemn the human rights violations and abuses by the security services of madagascar against the people of that country and call for the dissolution of the political militias, full respect for human rights, civil, political, social and economic rights and the restoration of the rule of law. we call for the immediate release of political prisoners and for the immediate return of political refugees. the return to normalcy in madagascar is conditional upon the restoration of constitutional order. what is needed are free, transparent and fair elections, organised under the control of the international community and elections that meet democratic standards. our main dilemma is how to increase humanitarian aid to the malagasy people, if we do not recognize the unconstitutional regime. i hope that after all, such help can be effective.
the current political crisis in madagascar is the result of a military coup that forced the resignation and exile of democratically elected president marc ravalomanana two years ago. the military takeover was strongly condemned by the international community, including the european union, which immediately cut off development aid. in addition, madagascar has been suspended from the southern african development community and the african union, further isolating the island. the political crisis in madagascar is reaching a tipping point where there is a chance that the ongoing negotiations between political leaders will lead to an end to it. it's a perfect opportunity to restore constitutional order and call new elections. the talks are also crucial for the return of funds to the country, which has stopped receiving more than €600 million in eu development aid. i hope that the parties that have been at odds so far will now be able to put into effect a road map that will provide for the formation of a provisional government until new and - i believe - fair elections are called.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission and the high representative, catherine ashton, are deeply concerned about the situation in madagascar and we assure the people of that beautiful country of our continued support. we attach the utmost importance to overcoming this continuing political, economic and social crisis affecting the people of madagascar, which is increasing day by day. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had two years of setbacks and blockages on the ground. we are now, i believe, at a turning point. on 7 june, two days ago, talks were opened in gaborone between sadc and the various actors in the country to find a way out of the crisis based on neutrality and consensus, involving all groups and supported by both the international community and the vast majority of the malagasy people. we hope that we will build on this and work to ensure that these talks are successful so that the african union and then the community worldwide, including the eu, can support and accompany madagascar in its return to a constitutional order. we reject any attempt to transition to a unilateral 'de facto' government. the european council therefore decided last week to extend the measures imposed under article 96 of the cotonou agreement for a further six months. this does not include humanitarian aid and, in so far as compatible with this article, poverty reduction measures. we remain ready to provide political and financial support for this transition process, if it is agreed. it must be based on the roadmap agreed by the actors on the ground and also supported by sadc, the african union and the international community. i hope that we will be able to make a better development after two very difficult and difficult years. thank you very much.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! for several months now, the whole of europe has been watching the situation in the countries of north africa with undisguised concern, observing the processes taking place in our immediate neighbourhood. today we return to another country on the african continent that has long been mired in chaos and political inaction. madagascar is becoming a lawless state where an illegal power group is allowing the country to be plundered and plunged into chaos. repression and disregard for the rights of citizens of one's own country can only lead to an escalation of the situation, which unfortunately can lead to bloodshed. therefore, while calls for the restoration of constitutional order and the holding of open and free elections under the supervision of the international community may seem to be mere demagoguery, it is de facto the only way for the situation in madagascar to return to normal. we must also remember that while sanctions may prove effective, they should be accompanied by a concrete proposal to resolve the political crisis, because the longer the current situation lasts, the more difficult it will be to establish the rule of law in madagascar in the future.
i have a question: how did the ambassador get information about the secret prisons in poland? poland is investigating the case and so far there is no evidence that such prisons existed. maybe they were, but there's no proof. so i'm curious, where did you get this information?
many meps have spoken about the evidence of prisons in poland and romania and the evidence of torture. i have a strong appeal to hand over this evidence to the polish prosecutor, because there is an investigation in poland. the prosecution is independent, also independent of the government, the investigation is monitored by the helsinki foundation for human rights. the two guantanamo detainees have their lawyers involved in this investigation, so if there is any evidence, it should be in the hands of the polish prosecutor's office so that they can examine it. there was a committee in the previous parliament that looked into this. one of the members of this committee today in poland is talking about the fact that there is written evidence, signed by the former socialist prime minister of poland, who regulated this prison issue. when asked if he had seen the document, the mp said he had not, but had heard about it. so those who have evidence and documents, please hand them over, not just talk about them.
i agree with you on many things, mr. ambassador. we all know how important it was for the countries of central and eastern europe to join the union, and before that, to have the prospect of joining it, in order to consolidate democracy and human rights. i would like to ask the honourable member if he is prepared to say that he is in favour of giving the ukrainian people and politicians all the options to give them such a political perspective, that the road to the european union is open to them, and whether he will support this formulation in the european parliament.
on behalf of the s&d group. one of the priorities of the forthcoming polish presidency is to strengthen the eastern partnership. ukraine, as poland's closest neighbour, is one of its most important partners and has the best chance of benefiting from this. while i agree with the need to bring ukraine closer to the union, i also believe that this must be linked to the country's adoption of european standards in the area of the rule of law and transparency in public life. i have been following with great concern the corruption scandals in ukraine and the trials of politicians in which the parties drop the charges, sometimes in a grotesque way. the union is very cautious about the events in ukraine. the statement by the high representative for foreign affairs on the yulia tymoshenko case was also extremely balanced. however, i believe that the future cooperation of the union with ukraine should include the creation of instruments that would contribute to strengthening the rule of law in ukraine in the long term. i am thinking here of the idea of creating, for example, an advisory group to bring ukrainian law closer to european standards, assistance in various legal areas, including, for example, in the training of judges. i believe that ukraine's european aspirations, with the conditions on the one hand, should also offer the willingness to help. i hope that this is the approach taken by the polish presidency of the council of the european union.
we wonder what we're really talking about, because the facts are well known. and we stand with those who are in trouble today, and those who are abused by power. but we have to draw the lessons, and the lessons must be drawn first and foremost by the authorities in ukraine. respect for the rights of the opposition is a prerequisite for the construction of a normal democratic system in ukraine. and we have to say it very clearly from here today. but we must also say one thing very clearly to each other in this house. this is the experience of the czech republic, slovakia, and also east germany. there is no real modernization in this part of europe if we are not able to say with our own mouths that there is a place in europe for ukrainians, not for this or that power. not today, not in a few years, but that prospect is there. without speaking clearly about this prospect - and i say this to all our friends from all over europe - we will be de facto complicit in the maintenance of the dysfunctional democratic systems in the east. don't get your hopes up. it's a very simple thing. so we, in addition to this debate, also have something to do to say clearly: the door is open, do not be afraid.
i would start with mr. donskis' words, which he called the ukrainians our friends, our allies. indeed it is, it is the way to treat our friends in kiev. i'd like to ask you a question. i share the views and the divisions of the majority of member states who have spoken today. i'm not satisfied with how human rights are respected and how democracy works in kiev either. and what have you done, what has this house done, what have all those who today so fundamentally condemn the situation with mrs tymoshenko done, what have you done to send a clear signal to kiev and other cities in ukraine that they have their friends and allies in us, that we are waiting for them, that this house should one day be enlarged to include ukrainians? because the respect for human rights and democracy in ukraine depends largely on us. i would urge you to realize that. (the speaker agreed to answer the question asked under the blue card rule under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr. postle, first of all, i know, and second of all, thank you for this. the question is, is that what we could have done? is this really what can be heard from this house and from the eu institutions to the ukrainians who are fighting today for the same thing that happened to the poles and the czechs? and finally, how many of these positive signals for ukrainians about eu membership have come from the german government, for example?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is following developments in ukraine with great attention, as are you, parliament and the political groups, particularly as regards the former members of the ukrainian government, mrs tymoshenko, mr luzenko and others. since the beginning of the year we have expressed our concern about the possible political motives behind these cases. the eu is involved with a delegation and is closely following developments. our progress report on ukraine, which was published a few days ago, gives a comprehensive picture of the situation in that country over the past year. our assessment of the situation, which has not changed, shows the need for a comprehensive reform of the judicial system and the fight against corruption. the report stresses the need to ensure respect for the rule of law in criminal investigations and prosecutions, and to ensure fair, impartial and independent judicial proceedings, so that criminal law is not misused for political purposes. in cases involving former members of the government, a clear distinction must be made between criminal and political responsibility. the impression of judicial arbitrariness is also created by concerns about the perceived excessive use of detention and pre-trial detention and travel restrictions. at the same time, a large part of ukrainian civil society, experts worldwide and foreign businessmen operating in ukraine strongly believe that the courts in ukraine are under heavy pressure from various sides. we count on the opinion of the venice commission of the council of europe to be taken into account in future amendments to the law on judicial reform in order to eliminate such concerns. i would like to stress that we attach great importance to ensuring the rule of law in ukraine, a country with which we want to establish a more intensive contractual relationship based on association and economic integration. a well-functioning, independent and transparent judiciary is essential for this. we do not want to take sides in any individual case, but we expect ukraine to implement a system change that guarantees impartial, fair and transparent judicial proceedings. we are convinced that the stability of ukraine and the confidence of its citizens in the state authorities will depend on progress in this area. the pace and extent of our rapprochement with ukraine and vice versa depend on full respect for human rights, the principles of democracy and the rule of law. these principles must not be called into question in any way. this is also in line with the findings of the review of our european neighbourhood policy. the eu-ukraine cooperation council meeting in the coming weeks will provide an opportunity to discuss many issues of importance to our relations and to send ukraine clear and consistent messages on the importance of reforms in this area. we welcome ukraine's determination to conclude our negotiations on an association agreement before the end of this year. so far so good. in order to benefit from the opportunities that this agreement can offer to its colleagues in ukraine in terms of association and economic integration with the eu, ukraine needs to implement the necessary deep reforms, especially in the areas of justice, elections and the constitution. the country must also take a more determined stance in the fight against corruption. ukraine is not alone, but it must demonstrate its unconditional willingness to embark on a path of comprehensive and inclusive reforms in order to move closer to the eu. we will continue to provide substantial support to ukraine in its domestic reform efforts. in conclusion, i would like to say that we fully respect due process of law and without comment. we are counting on the fact that in kiev and brussels we will be able to continue our dialogue on domestic reforms in ukraine and on the country's rapprochement with the eu, both with the authorities and with the opposition, in an open and transparent manner. thank you very much.
in writing. the priorities of the ukrainian chairmanship of the committee of ministers of the eu include preventing violations of human rights and the rule of law. ukraine also commits to building democracy at the local level and strengthening self-government. at the same time, the helsinki committee warns that the country is violating the european convention on human rights. the temporary detention and travel ban imposed on the most prominent members of the opposition and former members of the government cast doubt on the objectivity of the ukrainian prosecutor's office. the ep's opinion is that the investigation lacks transparency and that the measures taken are disproportionate. the ep should request the ukrainian prosecutor general to lift this ban. the real problem, however, is the continued lack of reforms towards democratization in the country. at the congress of local and regional authorities of the council of europe in march 2011, ukrainian representatives justified themselves by arguing that more time was needed to get rid of the communist past. i also believe that democracy is not easy to achieve, but it requires the will to change and dynamic action. it has been a long time since the soviet union collapsed, and other post-communist countries have made considerable progress. ukraine, in order to create a pluralistic system of rule of law, must start with an efficient reform of the electoral law as well as the criminal law. the eu, on the other hand, must demand that the demands it makes be met, mainly because it has much to offer in the eastern partnership and neighbourhood policy.
most of the time we talked about the crisis in greece, and rightly so, because it's a huge problem. but president barroso also asked for support for the schengen debate tomorrow. if parliament asks us for support, it means that it expects a very difficult situation, difficult talks with the heads of various governments. i want to say that for me, as a pole, and for poles, the schengen area - the fact that you can travel freely in europe - was a symbol of freedom, a symbol of the european union and one of the greatest assets and advantages of the european union. we cannot allow it to be limited, to be dismantled, because it is precisely by these kinds of decisions and policies that the union is perceived. i therefore ask that not only the schengen system be defended, but that romania and bulgaria be included in it as soon as possible, or rather that they be drawn into it.
mr. chairman, please! in the debate today, i was very pleased to note the two camps which differed on the genesis of the state and the recommendations. neoliberal on the one hand, leftist on the other. i see that after these months, these long months, since we have been debating the situation in europe, one, we have come to the conclusion that there is a very high degree of danger, two, we have come to the conclusion that there is a need for cooperation. i therefore welcome the statement made today by president barroso: there will be a proposal on a financial transaction tax. yeah, i'm glad that it is. it's a shame we're not working on a finished project anymore, but it's very good that we are. and let me emphasize one more thing: for now we are focused on the eurozone, but in the european union we also have a 'non-eurozone' and hopefully there will be no problems there.
in writing. we are at a watershed moment in which europe's economic future is being decided the economic governance package. in addition, the union will decide in a few days' time on the next tranche of economic aid for greece. in my view, the way out of the crisis is through further european economic integration, not further sanctions or restrictions. the european union today is the eurozone and the rest, and the eurozone itself is one currency, but it's 17 bond markets and 17 government development strategies. that is why my s&d group is in favour of adopting positive solutions, such as closer economic integration. we also believe that the burden should be placed on those who are responsible for the economic crisis, hence the idea of a financial transaction tax, and not on those who are its victims - for example, the citizens of greece. the current european council is also the last under the hungarian presidency of the council of the eu, which has not been properly recognised, as a number of specific projects on the eu agenda that hungary has worked on, including those on economic governance, have been overshadowed by political issues such as the media law issue or the hungarian constitution. i hope that poland, the next in line for the presidency, will not take a cue from our neighbours and that the election campaign for the sejm will not overshadow its successes.
in writing. the next council meeting will discuss the schengen area. in this context, i would like to draw attention to the increasing voices about the reintroduction of border controls. that was the decision dania was going to make. the reasons given, i.e. the fight against cross-border crime or the increase in illegal immigration, are very serious. but closing the borders won't solve it. this practice is contrary to the union rules on the free movement of goods and services. it also increases xenophobia and the influence of populist and nationalist parties. first and foremost, we need common, more effective solutions for the protection of the union's external borders and common standards for immigration policy for all member states. in this context, i call on the european commission to maintain its firm opposition to the reintroduction of border controls or to establish common, uniform, reasonable rules, criteria and mechanisms for the possible reintroduction of border controls.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - i'm really sorry! please count the time! i would like to make a few comments on the opinion of the committee on regional development. it's a pity they weren't fully used in the agriculture committee report. these are: food security in the european union and worldwide, globalisation, and a new, strong common agricultural policy that will, firstly, improve our competitiveness on the international market; secondly, provide farmers with a fair income; thirdly, provide consumers with good quality products at a fair price; fourthly, ensure sustainable rural development; and fifthly, contribute to the improvement of the environment. to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to develop objective, transparent and simplified criteria guaranteeing equal support for farmers in all member states under direct payments. it's time to move away from using historical payments. the cap should include measures for regulation and intervention on the agricultural market and a risk management mechanism. finally, the cap should be more sensitive to small family farms, seeing the need to diversify to... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr dessy's report is very good in many respects, but very bad in one, because it rejects the idea of fair equalization of direct subsidies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the farmers of the new member states, and not only the farmers, are very worried and concerned about this. agriculture, especially in the new member states, is weakening. look at how much land is cleared in poland, lithuania, slovakia. i appeal to my colleagues from the old member states: let's put an end to this discrimination. let us finally equalise the level of direct subsidies in a fair way, so that there is no europe of two equals. and to your colleagues in france in particular, you had the slogan "liberty, equality, fraternity" on the banners of the french revolution. there is freedom, there is no equality, and without equality there is no brotherhood. we want equality!
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i think that mr alberta dessa's report has one very serious flaw. paragraph 16 is in clear contradiction with the fundamental principle of a level playing field in the single market. on the one hand, it calls for a move away from historical reference values, and on the other hand, it proposes to sanction very large differences in direct support for farmers from different member states. some would get 200-250 euros per hectare, others 350 or more than 400, and it is not a division between the old and new member states, because these lower rates would also include farmers from portugal, spain, the united kingdom, austria, finland, sweden. it is high time that a level playing field was established in agriculture, and the differences which will be obvious should be based on objective criteria only.
the aim of the common agricultural policy is to guarantee the continuity of food supply for the people of europe. we need to provide safe, high-quality, affordable food. that's what consumers expect. when we produce and process food, we have to take care of the environment. we say 'yes' to the common agricultural policy, 'no' to the nationalisation of the policy. we say 'yes' to a big budget, 'no' to cuts in the common agricultural policy. direct payments should be paid in a simple and equal way to all farmers in all countries. remember that direct payments are only part of the income that farmers get. so market regulation is important. good prices and stability in the market are the guarantee of income for farmers. we must guarantee that people living in rural areas have access to public services such as education, health, communications, sport and culture. these are actions that should be in the second pillar and in cohesion policy. i'm not going to let you do this. let us keep the programme that we have to provide food for the poorest people in europe.
mr president, our task and responsibility here is to ensure that both member states and the union as a whole emerge stronger from the crisis, and the economic governance package takes us in this direction. the package – politically unthinkable prior to the crisis and certainly not yet perfect – is indeed a major step forward. it is obvious, however, that to get an agreement is one thing – and it is our duty here – but to see its practical implementation and then to benefit from new rules will be yet another challenge. this reform, introducing a greater amount of automaticity over political bargaining and discretion, will have to pass the test of real life and this will require a strong political will and an attitude of accountability. it is unclear how long it will take before all the institutional arrangements are in place and new rules start bearing their fruit. this uncertainty creates risks and we must not create additional space for these risks. it also remains unclear how the interplay between the european semester and the new economic governance infrastructure will function, and i also have concerns about the permanent european stability mechanism emerging as an intergovernmental tool. i hope that our agreement on the six-pack will pave the way for these instruments to be eventually converted into the community-based ones. to conclude, let me say that the economic governance package gives us a chance that the winner/loser attitude will disappear from our european reality and that europe will not become a zero sum game.
mr. chairman, please! let me make a few observations which are the result of listening carefully to today's debate. first, there was a lot of talk in this room about stimulating the economy with additional budget spending. i think that the colleagues who said that are forgetting that there are countries in the european union and not just one or two and not just greece that have an internal debt above 100%. and this debt is the result of nothing more than stimulating the economy. and we've achieved some economic growth -- a little artificial -- but we've achieved -- we've only got bills to pay. and those bills are due today. there was talk of restrictive measures to reduce the deficit. but these proposed solutions say that each country has to get down to 60 percent debt within 20 years. if the 20 year perspective of halving debt is a long perspective, then what perspective is a short perspective? i can't see any more of a long-term perspective on this situation. can punishment be waived or is the punishment system a restrictive system? i was taught about the convergence criteria 15 years ago, when i was still in college, that they are the criteria that apply. but these were only the criteria on paper. if they applied to anyone, they applied only to those who aspired to the eurozone, and they applied to no one in the eurozone. so without penalties - without restrictive penalties, as some people say - this system simply won't work. these sanctions on paper were, and real sanctions as we remember, as we know to this day are not real. the socialist group has also raised the issue of implementing the 2020 strategy, not just cutting spending. but these documents mention the european semester, among other things. these documents also introduce a new excessive imbalance procedure. and it's an instrument that the european commission and others have a say in whether member states implement the 2020 strategy or not, so it's worth telling the truth. i urge you to adopt this package because the failure of the council, the commission and parliament to agree on this matter will be... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. as the past year has shown, the so-called stability and growth pact, which is intended to effectively deter member states from breaking the macroeconomic assumptions of the euro area, has not worked very well, broadly speaking. this was largely because member states felt impunity, as the penalties provided for in the system were not automatic. we agree on the form of sanctions that should be imposed on euro area countries that exceed the allowed levels of deficit and public debt. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the whole process also requires greater transparency, which can only be achieved through greater involvement of the ep and national parliaments.
in writing. in march and june 2010, the european council adopted the europe 2020 strategy, whose main priority is to strengthen the coordination of economic policy strategies in the member states with the long-term objective of sustainable and inclusive growth and sustainable employment. as economic governance equates public debt with deficits, we should make every effort to ensure that the medium-term budgetary framework contributes to reducing the burden on future generations. we need to build on the lessons of the first decade of economic and monetary union. there is an urgent need to harmonise requirements for the rules and procedures establishing the budgetary framework, ensuring similar social protection benefits and combating social exclusion. given the high degree of interdependence between the budget of the member states and the budget of the union, the budgetary forecasts at both levels should be characterised by the same degree of transparency. that is why it is so important that the commission and each member state agree on the scope and methods of forecasting. such cooperation would avoid conflicting macro-budgetary scenarios and increase the reliability of the forecasts used in the planning process.
the polish-german treaty on good neighbourliness and friendly cooperation was signed on 11 june 1991 and forms the basis of the present relations between the two countries. on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of this momentous event, a joint consultation between the polish and german governments was held in warsaw yesterday, chaired by prime minister tusk and chancellor merkel. more than 20 ministers and deputy ministers from the two countries' respective ministries participated in the consultations. the result of the joint meeting is the declaration of the governments of the republic of poland and the federal republic of germany entitled 'neighbours and partners' together with the accompanying cooperation programme for the coming years. on this anniversary, i would like to recall the commitment of successive german governments to support poland's efforts to become a member of the european union. polish-german relations are improving, as evidenced by the growing trade between the two countries. our economies are among the most dynamic in europe. let us hope that the relations between poland and germany will continue to develop for the good of our citizens and of europe as a whole.
madam president! tonight in magadan, the capital of the kolomye region of russia, anatoly bitkov was killed. he was the editor-in-chief of the local tv station "kołyma plus". without judging whether this is murder or death, whether this murder was political or not, it is worth saying that this sad event is unfortunately not an exceptional thing. journalists are killed in russia, and journalists covering political issues are killed even more often. according to many serious analyses, in the last 10 years, about 200 journalists have been killed in the russian federation! it's the most dangerous profession in russia today. without freedom and security for journalists, there is no media freedom, and without media freedom, there is no democracy. we should always keep this in mind when cooperating and cooperating with the russian federation.
madam president! public opinion in poland was recently shaken by an event that took place at six in the morning. eight armed officers, including six special forces officers, entered one of the apartments. and it wouldn't be surprising if the same block was home to a wanted drug dealer, an arms dealer, a man suspected of organizing bank robberies. but it wasn't any of those people. there was an internet user living on the same block. a student who had the courage to describe the actions of the current government in an ironic way. it is a most disturbing thing when the rulers are so susceptible to criticism, to satire, to laughter, that they send armed officers to the student-internet user at six in the morning. this must be opposed, especially here in the european parliament.
madam president! in 10 days poland will take over the presidency of the european union, so we should be watching what is happening in poland closely. the quality of a democracy is measured by how it treats the opposition. unfortunately, in poland, the opposition is being persecuted. in poland, the courts joined in the chase. in the case of former prime minister and opposition leader jaroslaw kaczyński, the court sent jaroslaw kaczyński for psychiatric examination. the only reason for this is that after the smolensk tragedy, in which jarosław kaczyński's brother, his sister-in-law and many friends were killed, he admitted that he had used a sedative in the face of this tragedy. there was nothing unusual about it. there's a medical record for that. the abomination of this practice is that it is set in a european context: the culmination of this practice is to take place on 6 july. the european council is to meet in strasbourg on the same day as the inauguration of the new european union presidency. i hope the international community will protest against the use of psychiatric research for political purposes, as in the soviet union and belarus.
madam president! i have the impression that we are dealing with a new kind of madness and a new, secular religion in europe. there is no scientific basis to prove that humans are the major contributors to the increase in co2 emissions into the atmosphere. these are centuries-long cycles that affect the climate. there are experts on the subject, including professor jaworowsky, a prominent climate scientist from poland. why is greenland called the green island, and it's completely frozen today? because it used to be a green island, but the climate has changed, regardless of man. therefore, we must oppose this new, secular religion, a folly that will call into question any sense of accession to the european union of countries such as poland, which would have to spend much more money on reducing co2 emissions than it has so far received net from cohesion policy. so if a 20 percent reduction in co2 emissions is pointless, then a 30 percent reduction is even more pointless. that's why i'm voting against it.
the public expects us politicians to be pragmatic and rational, effective in everything we do. the taxpayers can forgive us for a lot of things, but not spending their money without effect. and when we talk about global warming, we should look at it as a kind of rational design. i am now abstracting from the question of the validity or otherwise of the theory which underpinned our political decisions in this matter. there's a controversy in science, we know that, but i don't want to settle it here. but i would like to point out that greenhouse gases have this thing about them, that they know no boundaries. if even the european union adopts the most stringent greenhouse gas emission reductions, and china, india and other developing countries do not, the effect will be the same. in addition to the effect on the pockets of the european taxpayer, where production will be restricted, unemployment will rise and jobs will come from outside the european union. so if we're going to do something about this, let's do it rationally, let's make it a global process, because that's the only way it's going to be effective. if it's true that a month of greenhouse gas emissions in china is equivalent to a year-long 20% reduction in europe, that's a telling piece of information.
in writing. the economies of some eu member states, including my own poland are already feeling the damaging effects of the arbitrarily imposed climate and energy package as a tool to achieve the 3x20 political objective. but this policy goal is often distorted, too, because they talk about reducing energy consumption by 20 percent, and they talk about increasing efficiency by 20 percent, and that's not the same thing. the frequent misuse of the term 'efficiency' in eu documents is due to a misunderstanding of the concept of 'energy efficiency' and how it is assessed, i.e. whether it is 'gross national efficiency', 'per capita efficiency' or 'conversion efficiency', e.g. primary energy into useful work. emphasising efficiency gains rather than consumption reductions will create a favourable focus on innovative technologies. and this is the biggest potential reduction in emissions - even greater than the 20% declared. member states should be free to choose the way and timetable for reducing emissions, mainly through efficiency gains. in the case of poland, the main concerns are the great potential it offers: 1. mass thermal modernisation of new and old buildings and 2. extensive replacement of old district heating plants by modern electricity-generating plants. the climate and energy package needs to be revised to better align member states to reduce emissions.
in writing. climate change is a major challenge for the international community. the results show that europe is pursuing an effective climate policy. in the absence of global regulations with binding reduction targets, the eu's setting of new unilateral targets will not be the right move. poland is concerned about the proposal made by the rapporteur, mr eickhout. this document contains a number of issues that could threaten the european economy. pushing for further reductions in emissions from 20% to 30% could do a lot of damage to climate change. if the cost of production in europe is too high, global emissions will increase due to increased imports of products from low-carbon countries. european industry has shown that it can be trusted to find innovative solutions to help combat climate change. breakthroughs are only possible when there are well-planned long-term investments. due to the very high level of carbonisation of the energy sector, polish industry will be forced to bear significantly higher costs from the ets than its european competitors from 2013. this could cause huge problems in achieving the original reduction target while maintaining liquidity. raising the level of reduction by another 5 or 10% will lead to the collapse of many polish companies, which cannot be brought about.
in writing. on the eve of the vote on the report on the possible raising of the ghg emission reduction thresholds from 20% to 30% in 2020, i wanted to express my concern that the conclusions were going too far. we generally agree that the 3 x 20% targets that have been set so far will be achieved, but the scale and cost of the projects associated with the eventual adoption of a 30% ghg emission reduction will be enormous. investors who are already spending money to compete in third countries with less stringent environmental regulations than in europe are faced with the dilemma of staying in europe or relocating their companies. unilaterally increasing targets is not an effective means of preventing climate change. the proposed scenario of a 30% reduction would have a very significant impact on the sectors participating in the ets and would force them to step up their efforts to a much greater extent than sectors outside the ets.
in writing. actions to further raise reduction targets are damaging to european industry as a whole. under pressure from climate policy, industry will move to countries with more sensible climate policies. it's not going to reduce global emissions of climate-damaging gases. the phenomenon of 'carbon leakage', or the movement of industry outside the eu, is not a myth but a real threat to economic growth and jobs in europe. according to a world bank report, the implementation of the european climate and energy package will cost poland 1.4% of gdp per year by 2020 and the eu as a whole 0.55%. the bś also estimates that electricity prices will increase by around 26,2% in poland and by 12,6% in the eu-26. the eu's previously set target of 20% co2 emission reduction is difficult for polish and central european industry to accept due to the high share of coal in energy. but we took the challenge and proceeded to fulfill the commitment. poland cannot afford to raise the carbon dioxide emission reduction ceiling to 30%. the solution is to voluntarily join the co2-reduction club of the member countries. i urge you to vote tomorrow to see common sense win out over economically unjustified ambitions to reduce co2.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. − the 2020 strategy aims to help generate economic growth in a way that also counteracts social exclusion. cohesion policy, as one of the main tools of the 2020 strategy, should make a greater contribution to reducing poverty in our countries in the coming period. the european social fund should focus more on the group of people in need of support in order to actively integrate them into the labour market and society. this should be facilitated by the creation of modern childcare and education facilities and high quality training for jobseekers. these are examples of activities that will make it easier to reconcile work and family life. they are particularly deserving of support from the structural funds. and it's going to reduce poverty among those who are particularly vulnerable. in the future funding period, it is also important to focus the development and implementation of structural programmes on people in order to simplify the procedures for using the funds. the numerous controls and audits make the formal issues of implementing programmes a top priority and hinder the effective and efficient use of aid.
madam president! there is no doubt that cohesion policy should continue, after 2013, to fulfil the function it has today, namely to level the playing field for the regions, to eradicate poverty and to stimulate european development. the level of funding in the new budget should therefore be considerably higher, simply to accelerate the development of europe, the development of the regions, the development of a sustainable european union. it is certainly worrying that the commission's plans have targets which are somewhat different from those in the previous financial perspective. goals that are focused on climate change, on innovation. of course, these are important things, but new member countries like poland still need funds to develop infrastructure. without infrastructure, it's just going to be very difficult for us to match the european union in terms of development. and the last thing: i think that in the next budget programming after 2013, we should turn very strongly to the carpathian region. one of the poorest and most populated regions of the european union. i believe that a greater involvement of the european union in this region will be beneficial both for the union and for the countries in the carpathian region, which simply need more intensive european union action, and will help to raise the level of development of these countries.
madam president! there is no doubt that cohesion policy contributes to improving the socioeconomic environment by stimulating the development of the regions receiving it in particular. but let us also remember that the wide range of investments allows rich member states to profit too. it is estimated that the total value of the benefits of implementing cohesion policy in my country, poland, for the countries of the so-called old union could be as high as eur 38 billion by 2015. i hope that the fact that the decisive phase of the debate on the future of cohesion policy falls to the presidency of my country, poland, will make it so that the demands for a significant reduction of this policy will not be met. unfortunately, my region of mazowsze, due to the very strong economic position of the country's capital, warsaw, will exceed the 75% threshold of eu gdp. so he's in danger of losing his support. the same is true for 35 european regions. i would ask that their proposal to create a category of transitional regions be accepted, so that the withdrawal of aid can be slowed down. if we analyse the economic situation of mazowiec, excluding the city of warsaw, we find that the gross domestic product of a significant part of this region is far from the accepted level of 75%, and is even at the level of the poorest regions of the european union, which shows the need for further funding.
madam president, in recent years the member states, the commission and the european parliament have been working closely on how to further improve the effectiveness of the eu’s cohesion policy, its results and the quality of its interventions. we have come to the conclusion that to achieve this, well-designed conditionality and incentives within the policy could be an effective tool. today, i am convinced that we are well-prepared to introduce into the policy framework conditionality instruments that would increase the return on the investments made. conditionality commitments should address the link between policy interventions and progress on institutional, administrative and structural efficiency. in the context of the upcoming negotiations, we should ensure an adequate regulatory framework that will identify success factors for effective growth stimulation through cohesion policy. i expect ex ante conditionality to be fully integrated into the programming process. i also expect ex ante conditionalities to be directly linked to the policy and to programme effectiveness, that their number will be limited, and that they will be tailored to the specific context and respect agreed criteria. we must also see to it that conditionality procedures do not generate additional burdens, but rather seek to reduce burdens, and that they produce no delays in the implementation of policy, programmes or projects.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. cohesion policy is the most transparent european policy, which means that successes are very well and quickly visible, but also failures and difficulties are very quickly visible, which are due to the weaknesses of both the brussels administration and, very often, the member states' administrations. it is very easy to draw conclusions from this and it is very easy to justify by various external conditions - such as the crisis - the limitation of this policy to other european policies, which is clearly wrong. we must realise that if we assume that cohesion policy is a policy for the poorest, then it should be slowly phased out, that is, it should be phased out altogether from european policies. but that's not the kind of politics we're discussing today! this policy is a policy of equalising the disparities that will always be there, and there will be new disparities that we don't know about today. it is also a pro-investment and pro-growth policy. it is therefore a policy which requires the fulfilment of the treaty tasks but also their new construction. i therefore wanted to express my appreciation to the european commission for having decided to restructure the internal structure of this policy and adapt it to the new conditions. i would therefore like to thank the european commission for proposing new solutions, including proposals for the so-called transition regions. i believe that working on the new structure will increase efficiency and allow us to implement this policy in a way that is commensurate with the challenges we are facing today.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteurs on their excellent work. as the rapporteurs stress, cohesion policy has proved its worth, even in times of crisis, as a development policy that promotes investment and benefits all regions directly and indirectly. for example, of every euro invested in my country, poland, almost half, or 46 cents, goes back to the countries of the 'old 15'. the promotion of development, investment and the importance of cohesion policy for the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives are reasons why this policy should maintain at least its current importance, but also financial support. however, the integration of the funds and their full synergy need to be improved. in the face of the threats of youth unemployment and demographic change, it is crucial to exploit the full potential of the european social fund, and this requires the creation of conditions for its better coordination with other instruments at regional and local level.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is the best tool for balancing the development opportunities of the european union's regions and stimulating economic growth. in order to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy, it is important not only to make the most of the available resources, but above all to use them effectively, to reduce red tape and to ensure appropriate synergies between the funds. it is very important that the european social fund is used effectively in such a way as to bring the unemployed back into the labour market, and not just to train them, which is very common practice. the funds for innovation, research and development are important because they will make businesses and regions more competitive. one of the important objectives of cohesion policy is european crossborder cooperation. it is therefore important to implement and promote crossborder cooperation in a harmonious way, both at the internal but above all at the external borders of the european union. finally, the macro-regions are very effective and i ask the commissioner to set a model for other strategies by creating a strategy for the carpathians, one of the largest and most naturally rich regions of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! cohesion policy is a major driver of regional development. regions which form a specific whole and unity of urban and rural areas. it is true that cities have a significant impact on the acceleration of regional development. they should be given the necessary support to do so. but we must also keep in mind the sustainability of rural and urban development. i would like to say that cohesion policy is not very visible in rural areas, despite the declarations made on this matter. the cohesion policy must allocate funds for rural development, because the second pillar of the common agricultural policy is shifting its activity to the so-called greening, ecologisation, environmental issues, agricultural development and processing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women. the construction of technical infrastructure is the basis for development, but we cannot forget about the development of entrepreneurship and the development of social and scientific and research infrastructure, which are essential for modern, intelligent and innovative development.
in writing. cohesion policy is the best proof of the solidarity that exists in the european union. poland, and especially poor regions like the one i represent in lublin, have used these funds to develop rapidly. it is difficult to imagine what our region would be like without eu support. it is a pity that there is no information on the concrete effects of spending, because it is the evaluation of the whole province using the different programmes, and not the evaluation of individual programmes, that should indicate the direction of cohesion policy development for the coming years. cohesion policy is a pillar of the europe 2020 strategy and therefore the amounts allocated to the common cohesion policy in the next common financial framework should not be lower than the amounts allocated to the current programming period. we are now looking for funds for new objectives to increase europe's competitiveness. but we should not seek them at the expense of cities and regions. the european parliament, in the sure report and in the pieper report, sent a strong signal to the governments of the member states and the council: do not move cohesion policy.
in writing. the achievement of the objectives of european cohesion policy in many areas is undoubtedly moving in the right direction, although at this stage it is worth drawing lessons from its progress to date to design future priorities for european cohesion policy. the relatively low use of infrastructure and environment funds makes it necessary to review the tools to encourage projects in this area. this is particularly important for eastern european countries, where the expenditure of the funds allocated to this purpose is lower compared to other strategic areas. in addition, the development and convergence of trans-territorial and cross-border cooperation and the implementation of joint regional projects in the field of infrastructure and the environment, which are desirable for european development and convergence, require additional support. another important element is to strengthen the development of smes. the key here is not just to stimulate the emergence of new players but to create the right conditions for them to survive on the market. this raises the need for greater integration of the principles of the small business act with cohesion policy. taking these areas into account in the design of the cohesion strategy and policy after 2013 has the potential to contribute to the sustainable and harmonious economic development of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to read out the council’s political statement on the transparency register. ‘the council considers transparency as a principle of paramount importance for the european union. the treaties provide that, in order to promote good governance and ensure the participation of civil society, the union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies shall conduct their work as openly as possible and that decisions shall be taken as openly and as closely as possible to the citizens.‘ in line with these provisions, the council remains committed to giving the fullest possible effect to the principle of transparency. it also recognises that citizens expect that those who act on their behalf at the eu level respect the highest possible standards.‘ the council therefore welcomes and supports the initiative undertaken by the european parliament and the commission to establish a joint “transparency register”.‘ the council considers that transparency should guide relations with interest representatives and that the register provides a useful basis on which to build and interact with them in an open, inclusive and consistent fashion.‘ the council has received the invitation of the european parliament and the commission to join the register. the council is ready to consider having a role in the register and looks forward to discuss the possible modalities with the two other institutions.’
it would be the best solution if all the european institutions were to have the same register for outside interests. now i would like to invite my colleagues and the vice-president of the commission to join me in front of the podium for the signing of the document.
cohesion policy is well assessed in its current form and its results are well assessed. in the member states, we have tangible benefits from the implementation of this policy, which, in combination with the community's agricultural policy, is offsetting development disparities both within the union and between and within regions. i share the view that the objectives and the funding should be maintained in a form which will of course be modified to take account of the transition regions. we should note that this policy is well regarded by the member states, local authorities and i would also point out the positive position of the committee of the regions. there are expectations for the de-bureaucratisation of cohesion policy. as already indicated, they often also result from additional restrictions introduced by the member states. but one way to overcome the current economic crisis is to continue with these policies that are delivering sustainable growth. it is a necessity for the whole union.
the vote today marks the end of more than three years of work on a draft directive on consumer rights. the document guarantees a high level of consumer protection in all member states and will help to regulate the inaccuracies in retail trade between traders and consumers from different countries. its horizontal nature allows it to incorporate all the community legislation in force in this field. the provisions of the directive should have a particular role to play in all types of online transactions. i hope that the proposed regulations will increase consumer confidence in this form of purchasing products. the provision of a 14-day period for withdrawal from the contract without giving reasons and the associated right to a refund of any payments made is also of importance for the consumer. i also welcome the final provisions of chapter 5 on unlawful contractual clauses. i am convinced that the directive will significantly empower consumers in the european union, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
the european parliament adopted a report on the cap until 2020. i voted against because the solutions proposed are not real reforms but only cosmetic, minor changes that maintain, preserve the unfair cap that is currently in place. it's enough to have 20 years of stagnating food production in europe and low farmer incomes. we forgot that the union expanded seven and five years ago with new member states that received lower levels of support and were promised that there would be a level playing field after 2013. i want to be clear: we must maintain a strong second pillar, while maintaining the current criteria for allocating resources, which take account of the differences in development between countries. finally, there is a need for greater coordination between regional policy and the common agricultural policy in rural areas. part of the tasks of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy should be transferred to cohesion policy. the village has the right to benefit from regional policy measures for rural development. i would also like to say that president barroso's statement about possible cuts in the second pillar shows that he is not aware of the seriousness of the problem.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report because it supports the proposal of the commission to mobilise the egf in favour of belgium in order to help 2 834 workers made redundant in the primary enterprise general motors belgium to find jobs, which is in line with my position and the position of the epp group moreover, the report reasonably indicates that the 2011 budget for the first time shows payment appropriations (eur 47 608 950) on the egf line. this means that egf has been recognised as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines and therefore it deserves an appropriate allocation in order to fulfil all the goals and objectives attributed to it while superseding transfers from unused budget lines, which could be detrimental to the achievement of the various policy objectives. i also support the rapporteur’s call on the need to address, in the forthcoming revision of the egf regulation, the issue of how to treat multinational companies, the restructuring or relocation of which during major changes in world trade patterns affects, especially in times of financial crisis, ordinary workers who suffer most from the consequences and hence need the intervention of the egf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement because it is mutually beneficial to the parties' interests in the fisheries sector. the seychelles fishing authority, which has an effective vessel monitoring system, is of great importance for this cooperation. this is particularly important in the light of the problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing faced by the authorities in this area. the agreement covers a number of issues, including the presence of observers during fishing. european vessels authorised to fish in seychelles' waters shall take on board observers appointed by the seychelles authorities and each tuna seiner shall take on board for the duration of the voyage at least two seychelles seamen, in agreement with the shipowner, from a list of names provided by the competent authority of seychelles. the arrangements cover not only strictly pragmatic aspects but also a multiannual sectoral programme which envisages cooperation in the framework of responsible fishing, sustainable fisheries and joint scientific research. the most important effect of the agreement is the creation of 230 jobs at sea for the seychelles, 2900 jobs in the seychelles and 760 derived jobs in europe in related industries, which will undoubtedly contribute to the economic recovery of the sector.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? canada is one of the world's leading producers of aircraft and aviation equipment. at present, only six member states have bilateral agreements on air service certification. the proposed agreement on civil aviation security, like the agreement with the usa, will significantly improve cooperation between the community and canada and regulate this issue in all eu countries. the agreement will allow for the standardisation of certification schemes. it will reduce the duplication of tests and checks by building on mutual trust in these systems and comparing differences. at the same time, it will launch joint inspections, studies and the exchange of safety data. mutual recognition of certification arrangements will bring significant savings to the operations of european and canadian airlines. the agreement will therefore improve the competitiveness of aviation markets on the one hand, and their safety on the other, by bringing regulators closer together. on the basis of the foregoing, i hereby consent to the conclusion of the contract.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the current cohesion policy, despite the difficulties with the use of the cohesion funds, must be consistently continued because of its far-reaching objective. the cohesion of the union is the efficient use of the potential of economically backward regions and growth with economies of scale throughout the union. this is why the focus is on transport infrastructure projects that facilitate the functioning of the common market and on the environment. in the new financial perspective, the funds cannot be dispersed over sectoral projects. there is also a need to improve coherence within member states and to better use financial resources for climate change-related infrastructure investments, such as hydro-technical structures. in poland, for example, the cohesion funds are poorly used for public transport railways, trams, internet. attention should be paid to more efficient use of resources through recycling. a too small percentage of eu funds is also allocated to heat-upgrading, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe. it is in the union's interest that the division between the major centres and the backward peripheries should disappear, so that they are not merely a market and a reservoir of labour.
in writing. − the implementation of cohesion policy in the period 2007-2013 deserves the attention of parliament for several important reasons, namely: the systematic increase in cohesion is strategically important for the future of the community; the cohesion fund is an opportunity for new member states and regions with particularly difficult development conditions; the committee on budgetary control has raised reservations about the implementation of the policy in recent years because of the excessive error rate. the report by mr mikolasik deserves our support.
in writing. − european crossborder cooperation is now one of the pillars of cohesion policy. on the one hand, it contributes to the creation of transnational projects and eu strategies, and on the other, it contributes to the reduction of barriers between territories and regions. i am convinced that effective territorial cooperation is important not only within the community but above all in the border areas with the member states of the european union. moreover, during the polish presidency of the council of the eu, we will have the opportunity to promote harmonized rules for the implementation of crossborder cooperation programmes at the eu's internal and external borders. in this context, i consider the report by maria teresa sanchez schmid on the challenges for territorial cooperation the future timetable for crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation to be an important contribution to regional policy and i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the current situation and future synergies for greater effectiveness of the erdf and other structural funds. a study carried out in poland to identify barriers to the use of the structural funds shows that the two main obstacles are the lack of systematic information and the bureaucratic system of applying and settling eu funds. in particular, i would like to draw attention to the simplification of the application procedure for funding, both at national and regional level. this is a priority for the efficient use of all funds. i also call on the commission to simplify the concept of cohesion policy and to focus it on results rather than on complicated control procedures. the new policy must be characterised by greater flexibility, proportionality and transparency in the use of funds. the simplification of procedures would be facilitated by the harmonisation of the rules on management, eligibility, audit and reporting for projects financed by the erdf, the esf, the cohesion fund, the eafrd and the european fisheries fund. greater coordination of assistance from different funds will improve the effective handling of complex problems. for example, the problem of unemployment requires both training for the unemployed, promotion of entrepreneurship and support for structural infrastructure. there are different funds that apply here. only by working together effectively will they reduce unemployment. such a systematic approach can also improve access to the necessary information for potential beneficiaries.
in writing. − as the last year has shown, the so-called stability and growth pact, which is intended to effectively deter member states from breaking the macroeconomic assumptions of the euro area, has not worked very effectively, broadly speaking. this was largely because member states felt impunity, as the penalties provided for in the system were not automatic. the main thrust of the proposed solutions is stronger coordination of the financial policies of individual member states and more severe and automatic sanctions to force them to exercise greater macroeconomic discipline.
in writing. − consumer rights require constant attention, both in the area of legal regulation: the scope of regulation, the subject of regulation, the obligations and rights of the parties, and in the area of compliance with the law. it is good that we periodically review and make adjustments. information for consumers, the media for this information, goods with reduced value, the possibility of returning goods are particularly important issues today. these key issues and principles are reflected in the report by mr schwaba.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? in today's vote i supported the amendments to the consumer rights directive to make it easier to shop online, because it is a very important step towards completely removing barriers to the flow of goods while safeguarding consumers' rights. the guaranteed right to reliable information on the possibility of withdrawal, the price of the product, the cost of the consignment and the total purchase price and the trader's data will be aimed at increasing the security of trade and will also be a sales incentive. consumers very often complain that their right to enjoy all the benefits of the common market is not complete, which is reflected in a lack of trust in online transactions and a sense of legal uncertainty about the extent of the protection consumers should be surrounded by. the reason for the reluctance of entrepreneurs to enter into foreign transactions is the differences in the legal regulations in the various member states. for this reason, a legal solution at community level is necessary. experts estimate that up to a quarter of all trade will move online by 2015, so it is very important that trust in this type of transaction is increased. i would like to congratulate the author of this report and all those involved in the project.
in writing. - the increasingly popular online shopping has the potential to become simpler and safer with this directive. this is good news for the polish presidency, because e-commerce is one of our priorities, through which we want to increase the competitiveness of the eu economy. once the new rules come into force, the seller will be required to provide clear information on the countries to which he sends his consignments. many shops today do not ship to all eu countries, and our business is often interrupted.
in writing. − as the permanent rapporteur on the legal basis in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, i would like to draw attention to one aspect of the report, namely the question of the legal basis. given the controversy surrounding nuclear energy today and the fact that the eu's institutional system has changed since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, i believe that the european parliament should be involved in the decision-making process in the field of nuclear energy. that is why i have recommended article 192 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and articles 31 and 32 of the euratom treaty as the appropriate legal basis for this directive. unfortunately, due to changes in the timetable of the legal affairs committee, my opinion was not taken into account by the itre committee responsible, which voted by a minimal majority to accept the euratom treaty as the sole legal basis. i believe that this has been to the detriment of the transparency of the decision-making process on a matter as important to eu citizens as nuclear energy.
in writing. − economic growth and societal development depend to a large extent on the health of citizens. the quality of the products we eat and the way they are produced are essential to our well-being, which is why the health of european union citizens should be an important aspect of our agricultural policy. by introducing a more conscious cap, we will be able to combat more effectively the diseases of civilisation linked to unhealthy lifestyles and poor nutrition. obesity, diabetes, cancer, and various diseases of the blood system are real threats to citizens. statistics show that cardiovascular disease causes about 4.3 million deaths in europe each year, and more than 1.7 million people die of cancer. i think this report is going in the wrong direction, which is why i voted against the report 'the cap to 2020: meeting the challenges of the future in terms of food, natural resources and territorial aspects'.
in writing. − polish meps voted today against a resolution on the common agricultural policy after 2013. the proposals contained in the parliamentary resolution are, in our opinion, conservative and may harm the competitiveness of both polish and european agriculture.
in writing. - i declare that i voted against the report by albert dessa. although the report contains many good ideas, it is bad for european agriculture because it does not support the idea of full equalization of direct subsidies, it perpetuates discrimination against new member states and it maintains the absurd situation that in agriculture rich countries are helped more and poor countries less. i could not vote for the report because of its contents.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 23 june 2011.
last friday we inaugurated the first polish presidency of the council of the european union in warsaw, in the presence of presidents van rompuy and barroso. as the european parliament, we expect it to be as friendly to our parliament as the hungarian presidency. on wednesday morning, the presentation of the programme of the polish presidency of the council of the european union will be made by prime minister donald tusk, so we will meet with the polish presidency on wednesday morning. two pieces of information about our nearest neighborhood. we follow events in the countries closest to the union. in a referendum on friday, moroccans voted to change the constitution to strengthen the country's democratic system. however, reforms must be pursued further and deeper to meet the real aspirations of the moroccan people. i would add that the european parliament was present at the elections as an observer. another matter concerning our neighborhood. hundreds of people were arrested during yesterday's peaceful demonstrations in many belarusian cities and were brought to trial today. the european parliament supports the aspirations of the belarusian people to exercise their freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. we demand the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners and convicts.
we have received news of the death of otto von habsburg. otto von habsburg-lothringen was one of the first promoters of european integration and co-creator of the idea of paneurope. for many years he was the chairman of the international pan-european union, the oldest european integration movement. for two decades, as a member of the european people's party group, he was also a great promoter of the enlargement of the european union to include the countries of central europe. our former colleague from the european parliament has left us. on 25 june another of our colleagues, jan kułakowski, former mep from the alde group, also died. as a polish emigrant, he served as secretary-general of the world labour organization for 14 years, even during the communist regime in poland. in the government i led, he was the chief negotiator for the eu membership for four years. jan kułakowski has made a great contribution to poland's ability to lead the work of the council of the union today. ladies and gentlemen, we have lost two outstanding europeans with very different backgrounds. their lives were linked by the idea of a peaceful reintegration of our entire continent. they're gone, but they've left their legacy to future generations, including us in this room. the way europe has changed in their lifetime is proof of how much can be done even when the starting point is crisis and difficulty. we will not forget their contribution to the european idea. we'll continue their achievements. (parliamentarians rise and hold a minute of silence)
the next item is the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (com(2010)0484 – c7-0265/2010 – 2010/0250(cod)) (a7-0223/2011).
mr. chairman, please! it is a great pleasure to have you here today to address a difficult but important issue. the rapporteur rightly noted that, in addition to combating the consequences of the recession, measures should be taken to introduce the appropriate regulations to remedy its causes. that's forward thinking and it's commendable. better, more efficient and more accurate control of capital flows should be our priority. we need to know where we are, who is responsible for the control of the finances, how they are being used and how they are being spent.
mr. chairman, please! congratulations to the rapporteur, to the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to make a few comments which were also influenced by this debate. this may seem trivial to some of you, but i want to remind you that the stock market crashes during the crisis were the result, not the cause of the problems. the reason for these sharp decreases was the excessive risk taken by the market participants and the decreases were a reaction to the losses they had incurred. sometimes prices have to fall to reflect the true value of a stock or a bond or any other instrument. however, it is important that these falls do not lead to panic or excessive hesitation. that's why this regulation is so important. i am therefore pleased that it in my view responds to the challenge, as a situation in which supervisors have full information on short positions is the most appropriate situation. this will enhance the quality of supervision and the trust in this type of institution. but i'm not sure that the same thing will happen if we make this information public. i hope that this will not have the opposite effect to what is expected, for example that the knowledge of the number of open short positions will increase the willingness of investors to follow this trend more strongly. as far as cdss are concerned, i'm not sure that banning uncovered cds transactions is the right response to what's been happening with greek bonds. there is no - i don't know of any - convincing evidence that cdss have caused greater volatility or increased the interest rates on distressed countries' bonds. the markets for cds contracts are, please remember, many times smaller than the markets for the bonds of the countries they target. so it's hard to believe that this fact affects you in this way. even so, i could agree that the ban is justified if it were not for the fact - as mr kamall has mentioned, among others - that empty cdss actually cover other transactions that are not taken into account.
on behalf of the ecr group. in today's increasingly mobile world, the protection of personal data is an essential tool to ensure citizens' security and freedom to move freely within the european union. a well-organised and trust-building protection system promotes increased activity and contributes to economic and social development. the proposal to set up an agency to oversee all three existing information systems seems interesting, since the management of large-scale information systems requires the responsibility of a specialised institution. however, it is important to ensure that all member states are represented on the management board. for the data protection system to be effective, the individual solutions must be applicable to all countries. the agency should have an important role in ensuring the security of networks and data transmission by tackling increasingly common threats. the european data protection supervisor should be able to exercise his or her functions in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in this regulation. i hope that this system will allow for more efficient data exchange and more secure data processing and sharing.
the union's budget support to developing countries is of particular importance. not only the positive effects but also the negative effects must be considered. this support has undoubtedly a direct impact on the development of economic potential. however, we must not forget the potential risks associated with budget support. these include difficulties in carrying out monitoring in countries outside the european union and possible irregularities in the allocation and use of funds. but i think that support is very important and should be continued. it is also indirectly in the interest of the european union. it results in much faster economic growth in the assisted countries and thus contributes to the improvement of their economic situation, which, through trade, will also have a positive impact on the member states and their markets. the measures envisaged will allow the internal situation in the inflamed regions to stabilise and the poverty rate to be significantly reduced. this help is important. but we must try to control and monitor better the funds coming out of the community so that they really support economic development and are not used for undesirable purposes.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission very much welcomes this own-initiative report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond. it is a topic that is of course very high on the agenda and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and constructive cooperation. energy networks are at the heart of our energy system. without secure intelligence and sustainable energy networks we cannot meet our climate goals and our energy targets in europe. within the next decades our energy system will therefore need to go through a deep transformation process that will bring huge challenges but also opportunities in the way we generate, transport, distribute and consume energy. in almost any possible future scenario, energy infrastructures will play the key role as a catalyst enabling us to meet our emission reduction objectives. furthermore, as the european council in february confirmed, they will also be crucial in ensuring that solidarity between member states becomes operational, that alternative supply routes materialise and that renewables will develop. the new eu energy infrastructure policy is needed to change the way in which networks are planned and developed in the european union. this is why the european parliament’s own-initiative report on energy infrastructure is so timely and important. in november last year the commission adopted a communication outlining our vision for such a new policy, the strategies and priorities to be pursued, and i would like to recall here what is needed. we need to build grids connecting the huge offshore wind energy potential in the northern seas to consumption centres in northern and central europe. we need to diversify our gas supplies, sources, counterparts and routes with the construction of the southern corridor. we need to develop interconnections in south-western europe with a view to integrating renewable energies and increasing the flexibility of gas flows in the region. we need to fully integrate the baltic electricity and gas market into the european market, thus ending the isolation of energy islands, and we need to strengthen the regional network in central-eastern and south-eastern europe. we need now to move from priorities to concrete projects of european interest, from plans on drawing boards to consultation, permit granting, financing and construction on the ground, and that is why our forthcoming legislative proposal on energy infrastructure will be so important. an essential element when implementing infrastructure policies is ensuring financing. it is estimated that over eur 200 billion are needed in the coming years, and not all this investment will just happen by itself. last week, as you know, the commission adopted our proposal for the next multiannual framework; it provides for eur 9.1 billion to be dedicated to energy infrastructures for the period 2014-2020 as part of a common infrastructure fund. this acknowledges the need for specific eu funding for energy infrastructures in order to deliver on our common energy and climate targets but also to ensure continued and secure supply of competitive energy to all european citizens. the commission warmly welcomes the european parliament’s support for a fund such as outlined in your resolution on the mff. the commission also appreciates the recommendations, including in the report discussed today, regarding the prioritisation of energy infrastructure projects, the acceleration of permit-granting procedures and better involvement of interested stakeholders as well as the regulation of cross-border infrastructure and financing. we will take all this into due consideration in the process of developing the forthcoming legislative proposal for a regulation on energy infrastructure development, which is scheduled for the autumn of this year. we look forward to cooperating with the parliament on this new proposal and to your support in the efforts to develop the grids europe needs for 2020 and beyond.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, infrastructure priorities should be used to create optimal energy networks in the eu's single market. the report focuses on the assumptions to be maintained. these are: ecology and climate protection, transmission efficiency and savings, competition and solidarity, security of supply, financing, cooperation between agencies and a 10-year planning period. on this basis, the market forces themselves are to create a common market infrastructure agreed with the member states. i don't think it would lead to optimal solutions. a draft vision agreed with the member states is needed. i have a few comments for the report. firstly, in paragraph 5, the rapporteur warns against 'developing infrastructure between the eu and third countries' because this could encourage the risk of co2 emissions leakage. i don't agree with that. european networks must be ready to receive energy from outside or to export it. the commission's intervention in these matters is inconsistent with the wto arrangements. secondly, european infrastructure must take account of the existence of time zones as well as climate zones. thirdly, the flow of wind energy from the north to the south requires special new networks, not only over the north sea but also over the baltic. thank you, sir.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the external dimension of the eu's energy policy is one of the priorities of the polish presidency. integrated and secure energy networks are a key requirement not only for the union's energy policy objectives but also for its economic strategy. the eu needs a fully functioning internal market in this area. the provisions stipulate that the internal energy market, which will ensure the free flow of gas and electricity between eu countries and the connection of energy islands to the infrastructure, should be completed by 2015. with the need for imported raw materials growing, the eu is building a common energy policy to avoid crises like last year in the future. new transmission routes and interconnectors between countries, as well as the search for alternative raw materials, sources and supply routes, are to be the basis of energy security and solidarity among its members. poland is an important part of this system, but the country's energy infrastructure is in a state of slow degradation. polish power plants, transmission and distribution networks are decapitalised by more than 70%. in poland, with its coal-based economy, it has been possible to take account of the use of indigenous fossil fuel resources, i.e. coal, as well as shale gas. in poland, more than 90% of electricity is produced from coal. mines are profitable, which is an exception in the eu.
in writing. ensuring energy security in the european union is one of the greatest challenges facing the community. we've been debating for years whether or not to do this. however, its main objective, i.e. to become independent from russian exports, has not yet been achieved. to change this, the union needs significant investment in energy infrastructure. the construction of new transmission networks is becoming necessary. our priority must be the construction of the nabucco pipeline and the north-south pipeline. the implementation of these projects will make it possible to become independent of russian blockades and energy blackmail. this will help to reduce gas prices and strengthen the competitiveness of national economies. the construction of these routes will also be an expression of the european solidarity in the field of energy, so necessary in the last difficult period for the community. another extremely important element in the construction of europe's energy independence is the creation of the so-called polish part of the odessa/brody pipeline. the project would allow the transport of caucasian oil to central and eastern europe. this would increase competitiveness and lower prices. this investment is also in line with the eastern partnership's vision of joint energy initiatives. the report also makes little mention of financial support for the construction of further hydrocarbon storage facilities. their establishment is necessary to extend the safety period to a minimum of 120 days.
in writing. energy security is a recent buzzword, and one that is being repeated across the eu institutions. it is not just about access to energy resources, but also about efficient transmission and distribution infrastructure. the lisbon treaty has recently highlighted the need to build energy solidarity in europe in this area. this should be exploited and long-term strategic infrastructure plans should be implemented. in particular, energy connections between eu member states should be increased and alternative, strategic routes built. the interconnectors are an important part of the energy puzzle. they allow the free movement of hydrocarbons between member states. they protect them against attempted energy blockades by exporting countries and enable the price of energy produced to be stabilised. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the union provides financial support for the construction of such projects. investing in energy security also means investing in the development of new technologies. they reduce environmental impact and make better use of conventional energy sources such as coal. therefore, in the face of a restrictive climate policy, the union should actively support ccs projects, especially in countries where coal is a significant contributor to energy production.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? the report we are voting on tomorrow is important for the future of european union development cooperation. why would you do that? in october, the european commission will present a communication on the future priorities of european development policy. the commission will also present a legislative proposal for a future development cooperation instrument at the end of the year, and a further high-level forum on aid effectiveness will be held in busan, south korea. the busan forum is one of the development priorities of the polish presidency. it is therefore a good time for parliament to set out its own expectations for the future development policy of the union. the basis for this discussion and our report is the green paper on inclusive growth and sustainable development presented by the european commission last year. we have reached a broad political consensus in the committee on development and we agree with many of the proposals put forward by commissioner piebalgs and the commission as a whole. we believe that development cooperation must be more impact-oriented and more results-oriented than it has been in the past. but that doesn't mean we want to absolutize the metrics. we must avoid focusing on countries or sectors that are easy to reach, rather than on those where the needs are greatest. we must remember to help the poorest and those who had the misfortune to be born in countries that are very badly governed. on the other hand, it is worth remembering that 72% of the world's poor live not in the poorest countries of the world, but in middle-income countries. development cooperation cannot be interrupted when a country moves from the category of the world's poorest country to the category of middle-income countries. we will also support efforts to improve coordination. we are in favour of a proper division of labour and of exploiting the strengths of each member state. we support the european union's proposal to focus more on certain areas, such as renewable energy and agriculture. these are areas where the potential of developing countries is relatively high. we would like these priorities to be targeted at the poor and their needs, and the methods used to implement them to involve small and medium-sized enterprises, to encourage action at local and regional level. two other thematic areas of particular importance are sustainable development and climate change. however, the topic that has generated the most discussion in the committee on development is the term 'inclusive growth' itself. i don't think we should be afraid of the idea. for me personally, it means growth that is on the side of the poor, in the interest of the poor, growth that has the effect of reducing social inequality. in other words, growth should be available to the poor, not just the most active. we know that this is not an easy task, that social inclusion requires many difficult tasks to be accomplished: access to the labour market, raising labour market standards, building social security systems, tax systems. these are very difficult and important tasks. the committee on development has repeatedly and on various occasions expressed the view that in formulating new tasks or principles we must not forget our previous commitments. it's the same this time. if we are to meet new challenges, old promises must be fulfilled, and this is not just a matter of moral responsibility, but also of our credibility with external partners. the increase in the effectiveness of development aid cannot therefore be used as a pretext for reducing or freezing aid to developing countries. it's very important that we be consistent in our previous promises. i thank all the members, experts, advisers and the secretariat of the committee on development for their help in preparing this report.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank mr kaczmarek very much for this report. i think it fits very well into the current debate that we are having at this moment and the reflection on the future policy. we have just finalised the public consultation on the green paper on development policy. it produced 240 written responses, and we have also received a lot of other input from different stakeholders. the findings from this can be seen on the website. having reflected on the findings of the consultation, the commission is currently drafting a follow-up communication, and it will be adopted in mid-october. looking at this, we are very pleased to see that there is very little divergence in our thinking on how to increase the impact of eu development policy. it is clear that we agree on the vital role that doing more to support inclusive and sustainable growth could play in this endeavour. for instance, parliament supports the suggestions in the green paper of focusing eu development on energy and food security. we also agree with parliament, as expressed in your report, on the vital importance of good governance for poverty reduction, including the importance of fighting corruption and having tax systems working well. we note and share your concern for utmost transparency over the use of aid to incentivise political reform, and the commission, like parliament, values the role played by local and regional authorities and of course national parliaments as well. furthermore, we want to see continued action in the field of human development, notably health and education. the commission agrees with parliament that broad measures of poverty should be applied rather than narrow income definitions. it is for this reason that the commission anchors its support around the achievement of the mdgs, as these provide the best available measure of poverty in the broader sense. we agree that we need to improve effectiveness and transparency. we are all pleased, i think, to see the last european council confirm the commitment of the member states to increase oda levels to at least 0.7% of gni in 2015. as regards the importance of strengthening policy for the coherence of development, i am obviously very pleased with your paragraph 49, calling for a linkage between external policy and the internal policies on migration. on differentiation we agree that the aid should be targeted at those countries where the need is the greatest and where we can make the biggest difference. however, that does not mean that we will only focus on so-called easy countries and engage in a risk-averse strategy. on the contrary, we consider support to fragile states to be a vital element of development policy. we also noted with interest the remark and the suggestions by parliament regarding the assessment of the risks of working with and through the private sector and on avoiding a return to tied aid, as well as on innovative financing mechanisms. we also saw your reference to gender equality and support for the most vulnerable sectors of society in developing countries. in short, i believe that the european parliament and the rapporteur mr kaczmarek will find that many ideas in the report will also be in the future communication. i would like to thank you very much for your contribution.
i would like to welcome to the european parliament prime minister viktor orbán, the leader of the former presidency of the council, the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, and vice-president of the commission maroš šefčovič. the next item is the council and commission statements on the review of the hungarian presidency.
the president of the council. - mr president, mr barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has a duty to protect the european union's citizens. my official duty today is to give you a brief summary of hungary's presidential performance. we are in an easy position, because when you were so kind to invite me here six months ago, i was able to present the programme of the hungarian presidency, which is contained in this volume. there were specific targets, they're in there. six months later, it's easy to compare the facts with the goals. if we were to conclude our evaluation of our work at this point, we could say that the hungarian presidency has fully achieved the objectives it set itself and which you have also confirmed. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the belgian presidency of hungary, which has done a fantastic job in preparing our presidency. i'd also like to thank president jerzy buzek. i already mentioned to you in january that we would like to have a parliamentary presidency. friendship requires two sides, and i have received this friendship and support, this cooperation from your president, mr. jerzy buzek. i would also like to thank president barroso for being here, as the council of ministers has a lot of work to do to make a successful presidency. i thank president barroso for giving me the opportunity to have the most open, sincere discussions and professional cooperation, even in the most difficult requests. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament in general, but i would also like to thank mr daul and the members of the european people's party in particular, because you know that the presidency, although it always tries to keep its work separate from political matters, primarily domestic policy, never achieves this aim in full, and therefore the presidency always needs a political background, and the group of the european people's party and mr daul have created the political background for me to work calmly. thank you for that. ladies and gentlemen, you will recall that the hungarian presidency set itself the goal of a strong europe. i too have always believed that europe can be stronger than it is today or than it was six months ago. when i attended the european council for the first time as prime minister some 13 years ago, i remember very well that those meetings were all optimistic, they were ambitious, they were usually full of energy and momentum. let us remember that 13 years ago we were burning with the fever of reunification, celebrating the success of the creation of the single market, the creation of the single currency, and it didn't seem ridiculous at all, in fact, we all took very seriously that by 2010 the european union could be the most developed region in the world. i personally remember the european union not being defensive, not being tormented by crises, not marking itself, not being full of doubts, but seeing the future clearly and working towards it with determination. ladies and gentlemen, distinguished members of the house of representatives, as a summary of the hungarian presidency, i can say that the european union is stronger today than it was six months ago. europe has been hit harder, three times in the stomach, in the past six months. i am thinking in particular of the deepening crisis in the euro zone, the japanese nuclear tragedy and the challenges posed by the changes in north africa. all of these required a quick response and commitment from the presidency. the european union was able to respond to these situations quickly and effectively without having to change our six-monthly programme. i say that europe is stronger today than it was six months ago, and yet we find that our electorate does not feel that way in the least. and i think the reason for that is that while we, who are working hard here in the witch's lair of the european union, feel that we have made a lot of progress in the last six months, the electorate is most often confronted in the news with the deepening crisis of the eurozone and the crisis in greece. and no matter how much we strengthen the foundations of the european union, until we can find a clear, understandable and successful solution to the greek crisis for the citizens, not only to gain months and weeks with one measure and decision, but europe will unfortunately grow stronger, unable to create the impression of a strong community. i therefore urge you and wish you to find a solution to this problem as quickly as possible. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is stronger today than it was six months ago, mainly because it now has the means to prevent a crisis that it did not have six months ago. we have launched the european semester - this was one of the major challenges of the hungarian presidency - and today we can safely say to the european citizens that we have the means to prevent the single currency from being put in the difficult situation it is in today. i must also mention the history of the six packages of legislation, which are more than 95% ready, and if we can put the period on the i, then our crisis management mechanism will be complete. the ism system for crisis management has also been established and the most important decisions have been taken in the last six months. but europe is also stronger today because it has a roma strategy, a strategy that did not exist before within the european union, and that is important not only from a human and human rights perspective, although it is certainly important from this perspective, but also because it gives us the opportunity to bring many millions of european citizens into the european labour market and thereby become economically stronger. this roma strategy is the first document that not only sees the roma community as a challenge to its existence, but also as a very serious opportunity and a reserve of strength for the european union. europe is stronger today than it was six months ago, because the second macro-space development programme, the danube strategy, was born. it is the first strategy to involve more than just member states: it creates a framework for cooperation between eight member states and six non-eu member states. if we can fill it with content that has the potential to -- the intellectual preparation has been done -- then this could be a success story for our community. and the european union is stronger today than it was six months ago, because we were able to conclude negotiations with croatia five hours before the end of the hungarian presidency. i would like to inform you that this decision is not only for croatia, but also offers an encouraging perspective for the other countries of the western balkans. in this connection, i prepared a memorandum on the western balkans, on the enlargement of the western balkans, on the enlargement of the european union towards the western balkans, which summarises partly the experience of the presidency and partly our experience of neighbourhood in the region, and which i handed over to the heads of the european union institutions, including president buzek and the prime minister. and the european union is stronger today because we are able to protect our borders better than we were six months ago. we have taken decisions that will create the capacity for the european union to protect its borders, to contain migration, and we have also taken important steps towards deepening and extending the schengen agreement. ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the presidency also has a useful role to play, a good instrument for cooperation between the institutions of our complex european union structure and for the conflicts that sometimes arise. i'd like to remind you that we've done that work. we have closed dozens of cases, codecision cases, concerning cooperation between parliament and the council. i would also like to inform you that we have agreed on how to involve parliament in the process of preparing the multiannual financial perspective. i have also made a personal effort to resolve inter-institutional tensions. i met mr rompuy 13 times, i held 13 formal meetings with mr barroso and 9 meetings with mr buzek specifically to facilitate cooperation between the european institutions. and during my presidency, i visited all the prime ministers and tried to prepare the joint decisions in bilateral negotiations. ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, i would like to express my hope that the poland that will follow us will continue to add to the good reputation of central europe. let me express my hope that the hungarian presidency has also prepared well for the polish presidency. in general, from such a medium-sized historical perspective, let me conclude without any modesty that the hungarian presidency, and the polish presidency that follows us, will probably convince you that the decision taken a decade ago, which we implemented seven years ago, to extend the european union towards central europe, was a wise decision. it has made the european union, our community, more colourful, stronger, more viable and more imaginative. thank you for your kind attention.
mr. prime minister, thank you for your complex report. as we know, the hungarian presidency has come at a very difficult time for the world, for the european union. you mentioned the threats that have arisen during the hungarian presidency. the most important thing is always to react to threats. it was the first hungarian presidency, so it was the first experience. that's why we listened to the prime minister's speech with such attention. and now we're gonna have a discussion about what you said. i would also like to thank you for the memorandum you sent to me and to the prime ministers, chancellors and presidents of the european union. there is a certain vision in this memorandum for action in the western balkans, which i think is very important. i would also like to make one important point: prime minister orban has called the western balkans the completion of the reunification of europe. this reunification has been going on since 2004, and now we have to complete the process. the prime minister also gave a very brief overview of the situation in each country and presented a strategic programme according to which we should act. i would add that the european parliament has always been in favour of enlarging the european union to the western balkans, provided, of course, that the criteria are met. meeting the criteria is our top priority, and we agree, prime minister. i now ask for the floor to be taken by the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso.
let me underline once again that there was great cooperation with both the minister of foreign affairs, jános martonyi, and minister enikő győri. thank you once again for your engagement. we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure.
i would like to thank the hungarian presidency very warmly and also the prime minister personally for this presidency, which we consider to be a good one. it came at a time when we had to overcome many of the crises that have been mentioned here: the eurozone crisis, the political crisis in africa linked to the arab spring, the nuclear accident and what happened in japan. the presidency has successfully implemented the european semester, as well as initiated everything related to the safety investigation of nuclear power plants, as well as implemented all decisions on difficult crisis stabilising matters that are important from the point of view of the entire european union. i cannot share the view expressed by mr cohn-bendit or mr farage that this presidency has brought some sort of crisis solution for the european union. so i thank the presidency for its efficient... (the president cut off the microphone)
the hungarian presidency has been a period of many challenges in the european union, the eurozone crisis, or the crisis in north africa. no country has yet managed to achieve all the objectives it set itself. but in the years ahead, the hungarian presidency has done very well. it can boast of achievements such as the conclusion of negotiations with croatia and the legislative package to strengthen economic governance. the presidency also managed to draw attention to the problems of the danube region and work began on a common strategy for the roma. the hungarian government's initiative is also noteworthy, showing how well eu funds can be used to promote life, which is a fundamental democratic value. in this context, commissioner reding's assertion that the campaign to promote the protection of the life of children in the prenatal phase in hungary is contrary to european values is unacceptable. (the chairman turns off the microphone.)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the debate we have just had clearly demonstrated how important european integration is today, and how important a role the rotating presidency still plays. the motto of the hungarian presidency was ‘strong europe’. we do indeed need a strong europe. i think that many of the achievements which have already been enumerated here strengthen our union – economic governance, the first-ever european semester, financial services oversight, better protection of consumers, the roma and danube strategies and the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia, just to mention a few. as we should not be distracted from these achievements and from the purpose of today’s political debate, let me also respond to the various comments made by honourable members on the hungarian constitution and the commission position on this issue. this is a serious matter and one which requires careful analysis before any conclusions are drawn. the new constitution will enter into force on 1 january 2012 and will require the adoption of implementing measures. the assessment at this stage is that the hungarian constitution does not create issues of compatibility with union law. its legal effects will be fully evaluated when the implementing legislative, administrative and judicial procedures are in place. the commission is following very closely the work of the venice commission, which issued its comprehensive opinion on this issue on 20 june, following a request from the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. we are currently analysing this opinion. against this backdrop, i assure you that the commission takes its work as guardian of union law very seriously and will remain vigilant vis-à-vis hungary, and indeed any other member state, and will not hesitate to make use of its prerogatives if necessary. let us now turn to what made this presidency such a turning-point, the decisive steps made in terms of strengthening our economic governance and our common economic policy through the european semester. as several speakers highlighted, the current crisis brought home very clearly the message that our economies are interconnected, our future is linked together and the eu is a shared economic space, not 27 separate economies. the crisis showed what kind of effects we may feel if one country is not performing well. this formed the basis of the eu 2020 strategy and our first european semester. i have to thank the hungarian presidency for the successful european semester and the successful discussion on the country-specific recommendations, which have also been endorsed by the european council. this created the best possible conditions for the transition from the european semester to the national semesters. we know that the reforms will be successful only if they are owned by the national governments and implemented on the ground. i should like to make just one comment on the economic governance package. i think that both council and parliament have made tremendous progress. we are very close to the successful conclusion of this very important governance package. it would, of course, be highly appreciated if we could go the extra mile required and conclude the very important negotiations on this package as soon as possible. a sincere word of thanks goes to the hungarian presidency, who really put a lot of energy and negotiating effort into bringing this package so close to fruition. for the hungarian presidency, the priority from day one has been to conclude the accession negotiations with croatia. this was a great success which sends a very important signal, not only to the croats but to all the peoples in the western balkans, because we have reconfirmed that their future lies within the european union. we have also reconfirmed that enlargement is a credible process from the point view of both sides, both in terms of preparations and of the european union’s commitment towards the western balkan nations. the hungarian presidency was instrumental in helping to shape new policy in our neighbourhood, where we support ‘deep’ and real democracy and where we are ready to support reforms which consolidate this positive development in these regions. allow me to conclude with two very important strategies. the first is the danube strategy where, i believe, we will replicate the success of the first macroeconomic strategy the commission unveiled, the strategy for the baltic sea region. i believe that, through common cooperation and the expertise offered by the commission, we can really help this region achieve new economic successes and new economic prosperity. i think the important work on the roma strategy was very well received. we clearly demonstrated that the roma issue is a european one, and that we need to seek a solution at european level. this is an issue which must be tackled by all institutions and by all member states. therefore the interconnection of policies at european level and national concrete action plans are very important and, i believe, will bring positive results for the roma minority. allow me to thank, also, the partners with whom i have been working almost on a daily basis, foreign minister janos martonyi and state secretary enikó győri. they, out of the whole hungarian presidency team, probably spent the most time in the parliament. i think they did a great job and i would like to thank them very much for their cooperation.
the president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. first of all, i would like to reiterate once again that the hungarian presidency thanks the european parliament, thanks the whole of it, thanks the president of the european parliament, mr buzek, who has always supported our work, and i repeat that i especially thank the group of the european people's party and its leader, because without their political support, their outstanding political support, the hungarian presidency would not have been successful. let's get this straight. the hungarian presidency has been the focus of attacks by the international left from the beginning. this could have crippled the presidency and made it impossible to achieve the objectives set. it took a lot to stop these attacks by the international left. this required the epp group and its leader, and i am grateful to the epp members for standing by us and helping us in our work. ladies and gentlemen, some personal comments were made, which i have to answer not for personal reasons, but for the sake of hungary. first of all, let me be blunt again. the weak trick is when someone talks about how there are officials who do their jobs well and there are bad managers. in my 21 years as a member of parliament, i have encountered this argument many times. this is the argument that is always made, this is the argument that is always made by the opposition when there is a government that has an undeniable success, the opposition cannot even question it, but it does not want to admit the success and attribute it to the political leaders, but delegates it to the officials. that's an argument that might be funny if it weren't so boring it's tiresome. as regards the remark made by mr tabajdi that there are governments in europe which he remembers having made comments and criticised the hungarian constitution, what i am saying is not for brussels but for the national governments: no european prime minister, no european government is in a position to tell the hungarians what constitution they can have and what they cannot have. this is a matter for the hungarian people, and we will decide it. i should also like to say, mr president, that we are in favour of a peaceful, calm and calm debate, but you know, it is as the hungarians say at home: as the adjon god, so the host god! i must now make a further comment, ladies and gentlemen, on the remark made by my colleague, mr cohn-bendit, that i have been treated unfairly. first of all, i want to thank you for the respectful attention you've given to my political work, including my speeches in budapest. i would like to confirm my opinion that brussels is not moscow. i want to make it clear that i will always defend hungary against comments of the kind that come from brussels, which in hungary can be interpreted as you trying to tell us what we can and cannot do. you are not in a position to tell us that, and i have to tell you that i can increase europe's support at home by making it clear to the hungarians that you will never tell the hungarians what they can and cannot do. it seems that there is an important difference in our coexistence, in our political debate, which i would like to draw your attention to. there's no doubt that we're both rebellious by nature. you're rebelling against a bourgeois democracy, and i'm rebelling against a dictatorship, and that difference seems to have been overcome, and i'm very sorry that you're following the european left tradition, which simply says that if people don't vote for you, there can be no democracy anymore, because they're out of government. this is a familiar argument in hungary. ladies and gentlemen, after that, let me thank the eurosceptics for their supportive comment. in fact, they have helped me throughout my work, for which i thank you, but i must clarify one thing: the hungarian government and i personally are not eurosceptics. we're not usually skeptical. it's a business matter. we are optimistic and hopeful people who prefer to believe in things rather than be skeptical of them. that is why we believe in european unity, we believe in european cooperation, and i belong to the generation whose grandparents made it clear that if there is no european cooperation and no european unity, there will be war in europe sooner or later. we take this seriously, and that's why we will always stand as a nation that suffered a lot in the world war. we will always stand by the idea of european cooperation and european unity. at the same time, i want to make it clear that i have always held your work in very high regard. i belong to a community in hungary whose basic motto is that the church must always be reformed, and that is why your provocative, critical comments are extremely useful for the european union, because just as the church must always be reformed, the european union must be reformed continuously - for this i think provocative, critical comments are very necessary, so thank you very much for your support for our work. as regards the constitution, i would like to make it clear, first of all, that the european union respects the constitutional and national identities of the member states. this is made perfectly clear in the treaty on european union and confirmed by the luxembourg court decisions. that's why we insist that the constitution be written by hungarians. at the same time, i would also like to make it clear to you that the fact that the hungarian constitution puts life, the family, the nation and human dignity at the centre is a way of thinking that is supported, sympathized and welcomed by many millions of people in europe. in this european union there are not only people who are critical of the hungarian constitution, but also people for whom life, family, nation and human dignity are extremely important and are happy that there is a new constitution that emphasizes these values, and here we are proud that many millions of people in europe agree with us and consider the hungarian constitution a beautiful achievement. ladies and gentlemen, finally, just to avoid any misunderstanding, because the report of the venice commission has been mentioned so often, i would like to read three sentences from the beginning of it. from the venice commission report. quote: hungary has adopted a new basic law which meets the general council of europe criteria against modern constitutions. the venice commission particularly welcomes the fact that the new basic law establishes a constitutional order based on fundamental principles such as democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights. a special effort has been made to ensure that the basic law is closely aligned with the methods and content of the european court of human rights and, to a certain extent, with the charter of human rights of the european union. other end of the line. i must therefore say that, on the whole, the hungarian constitution is, in its nature and political character, a modern european democratic constitution. and in all the details, the hungarians, in the hungarian parliament, as the european treaty stipulates, using their own right, will create the necessary rules. thank you very much for your work and for wishing the hungarians strength and good health. i would like to conclude by saying that it has been a great pleasure to work with you in the past. it was a great pleasure not only when they supported us. i must also tell mr swoboda that it was a great pleasure to debate with you, and i have met many of our critics, but on the whole a very kind and sympathetic representative of the european left who shares our european ideals. i thank you very much for your cooperation, i wish you every success and i ask you to support the polish presidency as you have supported the hungarian presidency.
mr prime minister, thank you very much for the presentation of the hungarian presidency and the comments you have made. i would like to emphasise that the hungarian presidency has been particularly friendly to the activities of the european parliament. it was the hungarian presidency that developed the rules for the european parliament's contacts with the commission and subsequent presidencies on the mff. it's very important to us, and we've been trying to do that. the four successive presidencies will make the same commitment as the hungarian presidency, i.e. the polish, danish, cypriot and irish presidencies will follow in the footsteps of the hungarian presidency. such action is beneficial for our future discussion on the multiannual financial framework. mr prime minister, once again, i thank you, the entire government, vice president šefčovič and all my colleagues. the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! genetically modified food as a subject of political debate is still a relatively new issue. in this respect, it is a legal problem for the european union, since effective, clear and properly implemented rules are necessary to ensure consumer safety while respecting the single european market. the results of last year's eurobarometer survey show that gmos are not accepted by society in all eu member states. governments, on the other hand, want to be in charge of deciding whether to allow gm food to be grown on their territory. the fact that scientific research on it is still developing is a significant factor in the radicalisation of the views on the cultivation of this type of organisms. in this context, the solutions proposed in the report we are discussing together are a compromise and are in line with the subsidiarity principle. member states should be given the possibility to take account of their own specificities, in particular at local and regional level. they should have the right to prohibit the cultivation of gmos in cases justified by environmental and agricultural considerations. at the same time, the procedure for granting consent to the cultivation of individual genetically modified organisms should remain the responsibility of the european food safety authority. in this context, particular emphasis should be placed on research as the basis for the expertise necessary for decision-making and risk management. the obligation to inform the european union citizens both about the current gmo legislation and about the results should not be forgotten.... (the president cut off the microphone)
mr. chairman, please! every day, millions of europeans eat food that comes from gm production, and we all accept that. at the same time, we are introducing measures that de facto allow member states to introduce genetically modified food crops. this is incomprehensible to me for two reasons. firstly, we do not want to protect the citizens of the european union by these rules, and secondly, we are introducing unfair mechanisms in the common agricultural policy, because one country will be able to allow the production of genetically modified food, and this will therefore undermine competition. these are not good solutions. we are debating today solutions that should not be possible in a common european union.
i very much welcome mrs lepage's report and i welcome the fact that we are adopting solutions which allow member states to decide whether or not to cultivate genetically modified organisms. five years ago, during the last term of the european parliament, a group of colleagues and i collected signatures on a written declaration which was aimed at ensuring that each member state, taking into account the differences in agriculture and the different conditions, could decide freely on this matter. we were in the minority then, but today i have the impression that the majority of parliament is in favour of this solution, and rightly so. there are countries like poland where the introduction of genetically modified crops threatens to destroy traditional agriculture, organic agriculture, which is developing. it's a very good solution that respects sovereignty. (the chairman turns off the microphone.)
in writing. i am opposed to the proposal in the report. transferring the responsibility for deciding whether to allow the cultivation of genetically modified organisms to member states is a step in the very wrong direction. the decision on such crops in the european union should be one, based on scientific criteria and binding on all community countries. the single european market must be characterised by a level playing field. if we allow member states to decide on gmo cultivation, the market will be destabilised and there will be no fair competition between european farmers.
thank you, my friend, for your statement, and i understand that this is a serious breach of voting discipline. and thank you for your promise that this will never happen again. it's also a warning to all of us, and we'll remember it. my colleague atkins wanted to speak.
sir, i appreciate your concern, but these decisions are not automatic. when there are more than 50 amendments, the report is not automatically accepted for referral, but further decisions are taken. we will follow the rules we set ourselves all the time.
i've spoken to the prime minister about this and i've not noticed him taking offense at the discussion that took place. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to calm things down, because we have very important decisions to make, we are electing two vice-presidents of the european parliament. i would ask you to take this very seriously. i would ask vice president rebecca harms to speak.
ms harms, that is not a point of order. you are a co-chair of a political group and you should stick to our rules of procedure. (loud applause from the right)
ladies and gentlemen! let's calm down, because we have an important decision to make: the election of the two vice-presidents of the european parliament. in accordance with rules 13, 15 and 18 of the rules of procedure, we now proceed to the election of two vice-presidents. we'll start by selecting a vice president to fill the vacancy left by mrs. koch-mehrin. each vice-chairman shall be elected separately. this is very important. we elect one vice-president separately and then the other. in place of ms koch-mehrin, who resigned as vice-chair, i was given the nomination of mr giles chichester. the candidate has informed me that she is willing to run. given that there is only one seat to fill and only one candidate, in accordance with the recent interpretation of the afco committee on this matter, we will conduct the selection by acclamation. it's rule 13 of the rules of procedure. the constitutional affairs committee adopted this interpretation on 15 june 2011. so, the choice is by acclamation. i have an important point to make. under rule 18 (1), second paragraph, mr chichester takes the place of the outgoing vice-president, mrs koch-mehrin, in the order of precedence.
we now proceed to the election of the vice-president to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of mrs lambrinidis as a member of the european parliament. i received the nomination of mrs. podimata, who has expressed her consent to the nomination. they're following the same procedure i just explained, we'll choose ms. podimata by acclamation. i therefore announce that, in accordance with rule 13, ms podimata has been elected as vice-president of the european parliament and takes over as vice-president of the outgoing parliament, mr lambrinidis, in order of precedence.
congratulations to the whole european parliament!
mr. chairman, please! the 112 service is an important instrument for the security of citizens in an organisation as diverse as the european union. the single emergency number enables those in need of immediate assistance to quickly contact the appropriate services wherever they are. it therefore welcomes the growing role, efficiency and availability of this service. i therefore consider it necessary to continue to support it. the provision on the observance of the existing emergency numbers established and used in some countries in such a way as not to cause confusion is also noteworthy. i agree that the combination of policy and technology can contribute to the development of new public services using advanced, specialised applications such as e-government, e-health and e-education. the participation of local and regional authorities in technological investments is also important. that is why i support this report.
mr. chairman, please! improving consumer protection law is an important instrument for stronger enforcement of rules that protect the interests of parties in intra-eu transactions. the removal of barriers to cross-border cooperation between member states and the examination of the necessary complementary legal solutions are necessary to combat effectively unfair traders that disrupt the smooth functioning of the internal market. this will allow for clear principles for public authorities to detect, follow up and eliminate infringements of consumer protection rules. in this respect, it is particularly important to improve the efficiency of the cpc network by seeking to eliminate legal defects that make, for example, the activity prohibited in the country of the consumer but not in the country of the supplier. improving the quality of consumer protection rights is one of the european institutions' key objectives. only through consumer confidence can we develop and expand the eu's internal market. i therefore support measures to make enforcement of consumer rights more effective throughout the community.
the introduction of a new constitution by hungary has become a pretext for left-wing and liberal circles in the european parliament to launch an extremely emotional, often unfounded and aggressive attack on hungary, ruled by the right-wing government of prime minister viktor orbán. apart from the fact that the european parliament, in discussing the constitution of a sovereign member state, exceeds its mandate and its competence, exceeds the powers deriving from the treaty of lisbon, it is striking that during this debate there was a lack of understanding of basic ideas such as sovereignty, democracy and tolerance. after all, no one can forbid a sovereign state to refer to god, christianity, or traditional values in its constitution. no one can deny that hungary has chosen this constitution by the democratic choice of the majority of the population, in free democratic elections. and finally, tolerance is respect for other views that we don't necessarily have to share. if we expect tolerance, let us be tolerant as well. i am here to address this appeal to the representatives of the left and the liberals in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! today, in this house, there has been an unacceptable interference by the european parliament in the sovereign affairs of hungary. the attack on the hungarian constitution is a pretext for european political correctness to take revenge for effective conservatism, revenge on the fidesz party, which is effectively pulling the country out of the bankruptcy it was brought to by the socialist and post-communist governments. the hungarian constitution, on the other hand, is a return to a world of simple values: marriage is finally the name of the union of a man and a woman, the times of the commune are finally the name of the time of tyranny, the state is finally the source of the reconstruction of the national community. perhaps the european parliament would take care of those countries where democracy is actually being broken, such as poland, where journalists who are independent and critical of the authorities are fired, where at 6 in the morning the special services enter the internet site that runs a critical website, where the leader of the opposition is called for psychiatric tests. when generations of hungarians are proud of their constitution, it is better that the european parliament actually addresses the cases of democracy breaches in europe, such as those that are taking place in poland.
the systematic reduction of carbon dioxide emissions is having a negative impact on the economies of countries like poland, which rely on the burning of hard coal. the ongoing decarbonisation of energy, which reflects the drive to eliminate co2 emissions altogether, could cause a significant economic recession in both developing and developed countries. the increase in energy prices resulting from the necessary changes in energy supply and related investments can have a significant impact on the economic downturn of industrial regions. the already existing ambitious emission standards for various types of motor vehicles are increasing transport costs and requiring higher investment in innovation by manufacturers. the introduction of high greenhouse gas emission ceilings will require a significant number of companies to be co-financed by the union. i therefore remain sceptical about the possibility of increasing the 20% target for reducing emissions.
greenhouse gases know no boundaries. this seemingly obvious fact seems to be overlooked by advocates of radical reductions in co2 and other greenhouse gases. well, the european union, within its own borders, is working to radically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, but it's turning a blind eye to the fact that other countries, like china, india, the countries of the former soviet union, are not going to do it at all. they're increasing production and increasing emissions in parallel. what are the consequences of such a policy on the part of the european union? well, it only causes production to be moved from europe to countries outside the european union, so jobs are moved, we lose taxes. but carbon-intensive production is still going on in china, in india, in south american countries. so there's still as much carbon dioxide in the atmosphere as there was, if not more. this is the road to nowhere.
mr. chairman, please! it is a good thing that today parliament rejected the demand to increase co2 emissions by 30%. the 20% discount is already a kind of madness. there is no scientific evidence that humans are the dominant cause of global warming. nature itself is regulating climate change. sometimes it's warmer, sometimes it's colder. so greenland, which is the green island by name, is now under ice. one volcanic ash plume can produce more co2 than the national economies of some european countries produce in many years. so why bleed when europe emits 15% of the world's co2 and the world doesn't want to cut it? for countries like poland, where 94% of energy production is based on coal, adopting this package would be suicide. it could mean that poland would have to contribute to the reduction of co2 emissions more than the overall net amount it would receive from the european union under the structural funds. i hope that today's decision is a step in the right direction: just as we are going to get away from 30%, we are going to get away from 20%. the polish presidency should make this issue a priority.
it is good that such a report has been produced, but it is impossible not to note its significant shortcomings. the report does not contain any specific and quantifiable incentives for the construction of the nabucco pipeline. this is a very important project, the implementation of which would give us a chance to become independent of russian sources, and would give us much greater certainty about europe's energy security. unfortunately, if we do not go from words to deeds, if the european union does not commit itself to the creation of this project, it may never come to fruition and the european union's energy security may suffer greatly, also in economic terms, because gas, if it comes from a monopolist, will be a more expensive gas, so creating competition is also justified from a market point of view. the report makes no mention of the validity of the sarmacja pipeline project, nor does it mention the huge shale gas deposits in europe, including poland, which would give independence in the security sphere of the european union. this gas is worth extracting and it's worth thinking about its infrastructure for the future.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of this vote. the european economic and social committee very often provides technical assistance to the european parliament. i have worked with the committee on many occasions on documents relating to civil aviation issues and have always appreciated the help of the eesc experts. i ask that the issues of prm passengers be included in the consultations today. i would just like to mention the recent information campaign launched by the european commission on the rights of disabled and prm passengers travelling by air: information posters have been put up at airports and an attractive tv spot has even been prepared. unfortunately, a large group of prm travellers, namely mothers or fathers travelling alone with young children, was overlooked. this is an unacceptable oversight. i believe that the european economic and social committee and the european parliament will be effective in demanding that the european commission respect the rights of all prm persons travelling by air.
in writing. − the heavy rains that hit slovenia, croatia and the czech republic in september 2010 caused huge losses. many people lost their homes and their livelihoods. the economies of these countries have suffered greatly. this is a great tragedy. this phenomenon is not new in my country, because poland has also experienced floods. coping with the effects of flooding requires a very large financial investment and often takes years. i believe that the eu solidarity fund is needed and that it should help countries that have faced a natural disaster.
in writing. − access to telecommunications services is essential for the development of modern european union societies. the introduction of broadband internet has the potential to redress disparities across europe. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the measures taken cannot be imposed on consumers alone. the report focuses on improvements to the 112 emergency number. the single system ensures that the emergency services are more efficient and often saves lives, and it is therefore highly desirable that it be supported by the union institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 112 emergency number, which saves the lives of europeans every day. i support continued eu support for its increasingly effective action. the implementation of the idea of a single european emergency number is a clear success for the union. the number was introduced almost twenty years ago. however, according to eurobarometer, in february 2011, only 26% of europeans knew of its existence and could identify it as an emergency number to contact the police, fire brigade or ambulance services anywhere in the eu. member states should therefore disseminate information on 112 more effectively. early education is especially important. i'm all for more funding for educational projects for the youngest. we have to teach our children the right response to danger. one of these is the use of emergency numbers and the communication of information to the on-call operator.
in writing. - the 112 number is one of the most practical achievements of our joint action, which has made eu citizens feel safer wherever they are. but much remains to be done. the number must not only be kept up to date, but its range and operation must be further developed and improved, as the resolution adopted today says.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of draft resolution 2010/2274 (ini). i know from my consultations with rural housewives last year how important access to basic services is in rural areas. the universal service directive will prevent social exclusion the provisions of the regulation guarantee that, among others, citizens in rural areas will have access to basic and essential telecommunications services at favourable prices. it will certainly help to spread the 112 emergency number. the latest eurobarometer survey published in early 2011 shows that only 26% of eu citizens know that 112 is the number to call for emergency services in the eu, and 58% of eu citizens still believe that their country's citizens are not adequately informed about the existence of the emergency number. this is a very disturbing situation. community citizens generally know the number of the police, fire or ambulance service in their own member state, but if they are abroad and need to call for help, they are left helpless.
in writing. − a more efficient and fairer retail market is essential for the proper functioning of the european union. the level of economic development is influenced not only by large corporations and enterprises, but also by small firms operating in the retail market. it should not be forgotten that it is thanks to them that we can speak of new investment opportunities and new prospects for the community. we therefore need to introduce solutions that increase their efficiency and fairness. we must support and improve the retail market, because, as i have already said, it is a major contributor to the development that is so important for the future of europe. it has been rightly said that the focus should be on enforcing existing laws rather than creating new ones, so as not to add to the red tape.
in writing. − in an age of a europe without borders, with equal rights and privileges for all its citizens, consumer protection legislation should guarantee the same rights and opportunities for all single market customers. however, the wide disparities between national legal systems lead to a variety of infringements and make it difficult to prevent and eliminate them. there is a need for appropriate coordination at european level and improved cooperation between the responsible authorities in this area. a thorough analysis of the existing regulations and closing of legislative gaps is necessary to increase consumer confidence and ensure adequate legal protection.
in writing. − with this resolution we are sending a clear message to the commission and member states that we need strong cooperation among consumer agencies. as cross-border trade within the eu grows, we witness more and more complaints from consumers, and there is therefore a need to re-examine the existing eu legislation.
in writing. - i voted against this draft because, firstly, its adoption by the eu would undoubtedly reduce the competitiveness of industry. it would be possible for my country to implement it, and even with a surcharge, if the tools for its implementation imposed by the climate and energy package were changed. it is the member states that have agreed to the binding 3 × 20 targets that should be able to meet this commitment themselves, just as they have the theoretical ability to shape their energy mix. secondly, i would like to remind you that the anthropomorphic co2 effect on climate has not been proven. it was put forward as a scientifically unreliable hypothesis by a group of politically lobbied people, the ipcc, whose faulty conclusions, for example on glaciers in the himalayas, and the scientific unreliability of climategate are well known. i am also opposed to the so-called environmental lobby in the ep, which the commission and especially its prominent and politically ambitious representatives are so eager to listen to. therefore, before we make decisions to drastically reduce co2 emissions, we must have reliable evidence of its harmfulness based on the opinions of independent experts (e.g. from the pan). i voted against because the effects of climate change, probably from natural causes that must be fought, are being ignored, and the financial effort is to be devoted to the donisoteria of fighting causes beyond our control.
in writing. - in today's vote, the european parliament decided to reject a report on raising the co2 reduction target above the recently adopted 20% target. i welcome the outcome of this vote, which is a strong signal that decisions to raise co2 reduction targets should not be taken by the european union countries alone. european countries account for about 10% of all global emissions. without action by other international partners, and in particular the world's largest economies, there will be no realistic path to achieving the greenhouse gas emissions target. any decisions on further steps in emission reduction policy should be taken taking into account the competitiveness of european industry and the risk of production shifting to non-eu countries that do not set themselves as ambitious emission reduction targets as the union.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the eu's ambition to reduce co2 over the next few years is very important. but we must remember that without a similar approach from the us, china or india, our ambitions will not have the desired effect. the current target is to reduce co2 emissions by 20%, and this is a considerable effort for some eu countries whose coal-based economies cannot be converted to other energy sources in the short term. further steps to reduce emissions would be costly for the eu as a whole and would make eu operators less competitive with the us, china or india. for this reason, i believe that the bas eickhout report does not meet the expectations of a large part of the european population and of economic operators, and i have therefore voted against it. thank you, sir.
in writing. − the report's ambitious eu climate policy and the target of 30% reduction in carbon emissions by 2020 failed to win a majority today. this is evidence that not only poland but also most other member states are opposed to raising the reduction targets. according to the applicable law, there are currently no grounds for deciding to increase the eu reduction target. the eu targets only include a 20% commitment to reduce emissions. actions to further increase reduction targets are damaging to the whole of european industry. under pressure from climate policy, industry will move to countries with more sensible climate policies. globally, this will not reduce climate-damaging emissions.
in writing. − according to the applicable law, there are currently no grounds for deciding to increase the eu reduction target. the eu targets only include a 20% commitment to reduce emissions, and the optimism of the hurra report did not take into account the huge costs that would be borne by member states and companies operating in their territories.
in writing. − i have decided to support the commission's fifth cohesion report and the cohesion policy strategy post-2013 because of the real risk of the european union losing its relevance over the next 40 years. the european union's population now accounts for about 8% of the world's population, but by 2050 it will be just 5%. the union's economic importance will also decrease from the current 20% to around 12%, mainly due to economic growth in china. in view of this real threat, the community must devote itself to the rapid development of renewable energy sources and storage capacity. the community must also unite on matters of foreign and security policy, the internal market, scientific research, energy supply and the security of raw materials. cohesion policy must take advantage of the international network and lead to more smes entering international growth markets. in addition, the history of individual european countries has made our economic system far more complex than the structures of asia or north america. in view of the challenges ahead, the concept of european added value needs to be more clearly defined and emphasised. in defining it, the question must be asked: to what extent does cohesion policy really provide a stimulus for enterprises? european objectives should be combined with regional development objectives. the europe 2020 strategy must be continued with a focus on results.
in writing. - mr president, cohesion policy continues to play a key role in stimulating economic growth, in redressing regional disparities and in crossborder cooperation. it is important that it responds not only to the eu's internal needs but also to the expectations of the changes taking place in the world. for this reason, adequate funding for cohesion policy after 2013 is essential, which should not be less than at present. that is why i voted for the report by marcus piper.
in writing. − i support the report on the future of european union budget support to developing countries (2010/2300 ((ini)). budget support is now recognised as the most effective method of achieving the objectives of the paris and accra agenda. between 2003 and 2009, budget support from the european commission amounted to over eur 13 billion. some 56% of the aid was allocated to african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, 24% to european neighbourhood policy countries, 8% to asian countries, 6% to latin american countries and 5% to south african countries. the 2006 assessment of budget support to malawi, mozambique, nicaragua, uganda, rwanda and vietnam, commissioned by the oecd development assistance committee, concluded that budget support had a positive impact on the rational use of public resources and on the capacity building of governments, in particular in the area of public financial management. the positive effects of budget support on harmonisation and adjustment and on increasing government involvement and accountability have also been demonstrated. although the impact of budget support on poverty reduction and on the relevant indicators of the mcr is difficult to assess, countries eligible for budget support should demonstrate a sufficient level of responsibility in the areas of poverty reduction, macroeconomic management, public financial management and governance.
in writing. - the assumption that the most optimal infrastructure will emerge spontaneously and that all that is needed is to establish the legal rules of the game and market forces will do the rest is to turn the tables. the multi-stage decision-making system requires a planned, common project at european and common market level in the form of a blueprint for the future infrastructure of the union. he can only be the subject of further legal and procedural arrangements. in voting in favour of this much-needed project, i am not losing hope that this multi-stage process of designing europe's energy infrastructure will take place at both eu and intergovernmental level and lead to the desired solutions.
in writing. − mr president, energy safety and solidarity are our main european goals. the fulfilment of these goals can only be achieved through europe-wide energy grids. we also need new infrastructure to complete the single energy market – especially as we start the move towards green energy. this means the greater decentralisation of energy sources and thus better networks. the commission is planning major renewable-energy projects in the north sea and north africa. however, it would be futile to build energy projects if the networks that they will connect to are too old to cope with the new energy. europe needs more internal and international interconnectors. we must ensure that supply routes serve the general european interest and not that of individual member states. at the same time as it builds new routes, the union must also focus on the modernisation of national grids, and support the member states in this task. this is especially true in central and eastern europe, where the grids are the weakest. member states need to rebuild their networks. in order to do so, they need clear eu rules on what state aid they can provide and where they can build. thank you.
in writing. − i have decided to support the report on the priorities for energy infrastructure for 2020 and beyond, which is a step towards an agreement on an integrated european energy network. it is important that the heads of state or government ratify the common energy policy (the 'one voice'), which should become part of the common foreign policy. on the other hand, the report sets out very interesting and promising objectives such as: sustainability and the promotion of renewable energy sources, competitiveness and the opening up of markets, security of supply and diversification of sources, or the famous "three twenties": a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a 20% increase in energy efficiency and a 20% increase in the use of renewable energy. these are reasonable and therefore worth supporting. nor can we forget about infrastructure, which the commission considers to be 'obsolete' and requires reforms that are crucial to achieving one of the union's major objectives in this area, namely the reduction of carbon emissions. the growth of wind turbine electricity generation is a favourable environment to continue the theme of energy infrastructure reform.
in writing. - this subject is very important to me. social services, including assistance to weaker economies, are one of the european union's core responsibilities. aid to less prosperous regions is in the spirit of solidarity and in the interest of the community as a whole. the financing of poorer areas will allow them to develop more rapidly, create many new jobs and get out of the crisis much faster than we are now. supporting the poor will help them feel that they are not being left behind. the programme is a major contributor to the fight against poverty and an increase in its budget would be a significant step in the fight against the crisis. financial assistance to the most deprived people leads to their upskilling and helps them to get out of the bad situation they are in. it motivates you to do more and improve. the universal services referred to here, such as education, healthcare, transport, energy and telecommunications, guarantee a healthy, well-educated, and therefore politically and professionally active, cohesive european union society and translate into a higher proportion of well-educated workers in the market, which in turn leads to the growth of a competitive social market economy, thus to the fight against the crisis and subsequent economic development.
in writing. − mr president, i want to congratulate mr kaczmarek on his report, as it makes it clear that we need to continue and strengthen our development policy. faced with a financial crisis in europe, it is all too tempting to decrease or even abandon our commitments. however, if we followed that path, we would only make the crisis worse. today, we see ever increasing waves of economic migrants coming to europe. they come because they cannot build a quality life for themselves in their countries of origin. without development aid, this would only increase further. it is fully in our interest to help these nations to develop, as it means more trade with europe, more sharing of information and greater mutual understanding. development aid is also crucial for the realisation of our goal of promoting democracy. however, it has to be targeted properly and focus on development, not merely support. we must honour our commitments to the millennium development goals. thank you.
in writing. - fellow workers! the main objective of development policy is to reduce poverty, which affects people in many ways and is closely linked to social exclusion, including gender equality. women earn less than men, are more likely to work part-time and are more likely to be employed on fixed-term contracts. almost one in four women in the eu lives in poverty most often elderly women, single mothers, women with disabilities and women from national minorities. violence against women is also a huge problem, and it is clearly a factor that leads to poverty through poor health. if we want to have an effective eu development policy, we need to include a gender perspective at all possible levels, which is why i voted in favour of the report by filip kaczmarek on making eu development policy more effective. thank you, sir.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the president of the commission on the multiannual financial framework (2011/2751 ((rsp)). this is one of the most important topics we're going to be dealing with over the next few dozen months. this is an important topic for the future of the european union, which is why we attach such great importance to the debate and we are also grateful to the european commission and the outgoing hungarian presidency for including the european parliament in the debate. we thank president barroso and the commissioner for presenting the proposal before it was even presented to the press, to the media. as we recall, it was wednesday night.
madam president, let me start by reminding you of the well-established fact that europe will have to deliver in the years to come on growth, jobs and competitiveness. this is what citizens expect from us. for the 2014-20 multiannual financial framework, this means a focus on investment. looking at the commission’s proposal from this perspective, i see that it generates new space for future-oriented policies investing in growth based on advances in knowledge, innovation, resource efficiency and skills. at the same time it proposes to modernise existing policy instruments and harness them more effectively to achieve the eu 2020 objectives. it offers tools and ways to achieve growth, jobs and competitiveness, while striking a politically sensitive balance between new policy tools and the modernisation of existing tried and tested instruments. there is a second reason why i consider this proposal a good basis for our negotiations. while being forward-looking, it is built on objective rules and principles and offers transparency, equity and efficiency as well as public visibility of joint european action. so we have a good and rational basis here for future-oriented common reflection on europe’s actions. our common challenge is to ensure that this proposal becomes an effective engine for the change europe needs: a truly multiannual investment framework.
in writing. i believe that the proposal presented, which is a compromise between the strong pressure to reduce the eu budget and the need to prepare the tools to achieve the strategic objectives that the union intends to achieve by 2020, should be considered realistic and balanced. i would therefore like to offer my warmest congratulations to commissioner lewandowski and his team. i consider it particularly important to ensure that the funding of cohesion policy, which has proved to be pro-growth and has had a positive impact on the economies of all european regions, is not reduced. i am pleased that the start of negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework - a document that will largely determine europe's development by the end of this decade - falls on the polish presidency. i also believe that both the european financial conference and the new model of cooperation between the polish presidency and the european parliament will contribute to the development of effective solutions.
in writing. how is it possible to finance the expenditure for so many cap objectives in the period 2014-2020 if the cap is supposed to be maintained at the same level as in the period 2007-2013? the income level of farmers in the eu as a whole is about 55% of the income of other occupational groups. the eu's agricultural market is too open to goods from third countries, where they are produced without eu standards, and imports are more competitive. european farmers are suffering losses in the wto negotiations. who's going to compensate them? the eu budget should take this into account, because it is the union that is negotiating these unfavourable negotiations for farmers. why don't we pay farmers for the public goods they produce that benefit the whole of society? the conditions for enlarging the union with 12 new member states were to level the level of support, the level of subsidies. when will we do it and where will we find the means to do it? who exempted us from the need to implement the treaty of rome on agriculture and food, which was supposed to ensure universal access to food at reasonable prices and a satisfactory income for farmers? the first two goals were achieved, the third not. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's rural development policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's rural development policy. small farms and those in disadvantaged areas require special support. we must ensure that the free food distribution program continues for the poorest.
mr. chairman, please! i just want to say thank you so much. i am pleased to have minister sawicki, whom i wanted to welcome here, in this chamber for the first time. i would like to draw your attention to what i believe is a very important point. well, we're very happy to talk about producer responsibility here, and we do it a lot. i would like to point out that these recommendations are very important for consumers. consumers should be much more aware of their rights as a result of these recommendations. i say they should be, because there's no guarantee that they will. i would therefore like to emphasize the need for consumer education. it's not enough that there's a lot more data and information on the label. the point is that not only professionals but also consumers and buyers should be able to read the information that is being conveyed to them correctly.
madam president! i wanted to congratulate the rapporteur. it has produced a good report and has proposed solutions that are reasonable and practical in this difficult matter. i am inclined to believe that in a situation where we have a shortage of feed, a shortage of protein, we need to find new solutions. but i am fully in favour of the solution, which is to exclude the possibility of animal cannibalism, that is to say, the use of feed within the same species. i generally support the solutions proposed by the rapporteur and will vote in favour of the report she has prepared.
madam president! partial lifting of the feed ban is acceptable and necessary, especially given the fact that there is a clear protein deficit in the european union. the consequences of over-hasty action must not be forgotten. everything should be done with common sense and appropriate safety precautions. it is important to continue research, as there is no guarantee of success. it is therefore important to remain vigilant and closely monitor the development of tses in order to prevent another crisis in this area. our action must be directed towards the strict control of feedingstuffs so that dangerous substances that increase the risk of causing epidemics do not enter the market. this will help to speed up the completion of the measures to address the threat, which is still real and needs to be addressed, and to reduce protein deficiency.
member of the commission. − first of all, the word ‘ensure’ which you are using is a somewhat difficult word. we are not an insurance company: we are a political body that has been negotiating a free trade agreement with colombia in good faith and with very clear provisions with regard to fundamental rights. these provisions are an essential part of the agreement and enable us to suspend it without prior consultation in the event of gross infringements. this is different from the existing gsp arrangements because, under the gsp scheme, agreements cannot be suspended without first holding an inquiry. this agreement goes further since it can even be suspended without prior consultation. but it is not only about this: it is also about creating new opportunities through the trade agreement. and it is by eradicating poverty, by giving new opportunities to people, that we will be able to do this. thirdly, i will say that i am convinced that the authorities are doing everything possible to stop this, that they are very honest with respect to this. but you should not forget that we are speaking about a country that two decades ago was – and has been in the decades since – at war. i remember the first time i went to colombia at the beginning of the 1980s: just walking a couple of hundred metres in the main street of bogotá in daytime was dangerous. so the situation is much better than it was then, far better. the governments, be it that of uribe, or now that of santos, are really serious in trying to combat this danger.
i would like to raise the following point. i am vice-chairman of the subcommittee on human rights in parliament, and this subcommittee deals in detail with the situation in colombia, among other things. i agree with the commissioner that there is some progress being made and i wanted to support very strongly what the union has started to do, namely that we are not only talking about respect for human rights, but also when we are discussing trade agreements, it is practically the talk of the day. it's a good direction, and i think it's going to work in the long run.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. in the european parliament we agree that road safety in europe needs to be promoted. the crossborder enforcement directive is a significant step towards improving it. i believe that the directive should strengthen the obligations of the member states to provide information, also pointing out the need for proper and correct information to drivers about the applicable rules. finally, we should review enforcement procedures, harmonize road traffic rules and the control procedures themselves. to that end, cross-border enforcement based on the efficient exchange of information between member states should be ensured, inter alia, by establishing an electronic data exchange network enabling the identification of the vehicle owner and thus the offender. i would like to point out that the legal tools for data security contained in the report seem to be sufficient. the directive is extremely important because it covers such serious road traffic offences, which have already been mentioned several times. the vote tomorrow could open the way to a second reading agreement which would accept amendments to the legal basis of the directive. in this way, within 24 months of the publication of the act, its provisions could be applicable in the member states.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. tomorrow at noon, we will vote on the document of the mp ayali sender. after years of negotiations, we have a chance to create a single eu electronic data exchange network. we have a chance to make a significant improvement in safety on european roads. i know many of you are wondering whether to vote for amendment 36 tomorrow on the correlation tables. ladies and gentlemen! we have no time to delay the adoption of this document any further. every day is a cost in the lives of at least a few european road users. i am opposed to the preference of procedural issues over substantive ones, and in this case we are dealing with an attempt to prove the superiority of one position over the other at any cost. i only have a few seconds left, so i'll make this short. on behalf of the millions of people who travel on europe's roads every day, i ask you to support this difficult compromise between parliament and the council in tomorrow's vote.
in writing. the high mortality rate on european roads is a problem affecting all community citizens. one of the ambitious targets of the white paper, to be achieved by 2010, was to reduce fatalities by 50%. according to the community database on road accidents (care), there has been a reduction of 36%, which is undoubtedly an important step forward. studies on the incidence of offences in and outside the country of residence clearly show an increase in dangerous behaviour such as speeding, driving without seat belts, driving under the influence of alcohol outside the country of residence. every effort should therefore be made to minimise these practices by introducing more stringent penalties and to reduce the impunity of non-residents by harmonising the rules for all european citizens, irrespective of the country of residence and the offence. i believe that the same rules should apply to all countries, and i am deeply concerned about the different treatment of the uk, ireland and denmark. communication between citizens and decision-makers is a very important aspect of this. we should increase the awareness of eu citizens about road safety legislation in force in different member states and the implementation of new directives, in particular by means of appropriate measures to ensure that they are given sufficient information about the consequences of not complying with road safety rules when travelling in another member state.
in writing. mr president, the union's regulatory framework for civil aviation safety currently defines a list of approved inspection and control methods and technologies, from which member states are free to choose the appropriate ones. the issue of body scanners as a more restrictive security measure is being raised in parliament very frequently. but i think it's also very important to pay attention to the cargo that is carried on board the aircraft along with the passengers. in addition to passengers' luggage, mail is also located in the ports of aircraft, posing a real threat to flight safety. at present, its protection is based on two separate pillars, but i believe that this level is not sufficient. we need to develop a common procedure for the security of cargo and mail so that its contents are protected against unlawful interference from the moment they are subjected to security checks until the departure of the aircraft on which they are to be transported. to this end, controls on the protection of cargo and mail from third countries should in particular be strengthened. this will be achieved, inter alia, by improving training and controls at european and national level and by increasing coordination and information exchange within the eu. further close cooperation with the international civil aviation organisation is also needed to ensure that parcels entering european borders from third countries comply with eu legislation or standards of a similar scope.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mr. de grandes pasquale. he's the author of a balanced documentary that ends a certain fiction about european airports. airport managers will no longer be able to extend the test periods of equipment indefinitely by making minor changes to its technical specifications. we propose clear rules for the use of scanners in the community. we are sending a clear signal to the european commission that we are waiting for a rapid draft regulation on this matter. i have welcomed the motion calling for the lifting of restrictions on the carrying of liquids on board aircraft. i believe that a joint effort by the commission, the member states and the aviation industry will lead to a method of fluid control that will provide at least the same level of safety as we have today. at the same time, i would like to point out that the financing of the more stringent measures for security charges in aviation is still not regulated at community level. without this regulation, the introduction of scanners at european airports could face significant difficulties.
the professional aspirations of employees are a very individual matter, rather unrelated to gender, but dependent on personality and specific characteristics. thus, the differences in this aspect between modern men and women are fading. as women are increasingly empowered to seek prestigious, well-paid positions in companies, we need to be aware of and respond to the range of issues they face. in addition to being paid less than men for the same work, they often face deliberate roadblocks to promotion to top management positions. by supporting various initiatives to draw the attention of company boards to the problem of low participation of women in management, we want to change this situation in line with the european commission's objectives. with regard to the text adopted today, promoting social responsibility, developing individual capacities, and training for leadership will help women who want to take up such positions to use their abilities to the full for the benefit of the companies in which they work. today's report aims to show that the problem is well understood and that the negative consequences of preventing women from entering management positions not only have a negative impact on women's self-esteem as workers, but also reduce the income of companies and have a negative impact on the health of companies. and i think the first thing we need to do is change the cultural attitudes and the traditional perceptions of women in the corporate staffing structures. if this change is to take place, women with the right qualifications and personal aptitudes will naturally be placed in management positions.
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the work programme of the polish presidency of the council. we are therefore starting the next presidency of the european union. for the european parliament, the presidency is even more important today than it was under the treaty of nice, because we are responsible for co-deciding on european legislation. this places additional responsibilities on us, the parliament, and also on the council to negotiate all legislative solutions for europe. at the same time, the presidency is entering a difficult period for europe - we are aware of this. we will therefore be listening very carefully to the proposal of the polish presidency, which will be put forward by prime minister donald tusk. welcome to the plenary chamber, prime minister! (laughter)
acting president of the council. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, honourable heads of group, dear friends, meps from all the countries of the european union, from all political circles! i am aware that i am in a place which, for the european union and for all europeans who take the idea of europe seriously, is something special, a guarantee of our active memory of the origins of europe, and above all, as i have judged it during all the years of the european parliament's activity, an institution and a place where faith in the sense of a united europe has never been lacking. i'm not saying this because it's convenient, i'm saying this because it's my personal experience. it is the european parliament that has worked with the greatest consistency to bring europe together, and it is still working today. this unification is not just about the accession of individual countries, but also has a deeper dimension, thanks to which citizens of the european union with such different histories, with such a heavy baggage of history and their own experience, feel in europe and in the european union as in their political home. it was the decision of the european parliament to entrust the office of president of the parliament to a pole that, among other things, caused the division into the so-called old and new europe within the european union to finally lose its meaning and cease to be relevant. i have something in my memory that's probably gone down in history, but to me it's a living memory. i mean decisions taken by the european parliament that gave faith in europe, gave a sense of europe to all those who for many years could only dream of europe. i remember how today, when the great dream of the poles also about europe, which was solidarity, was broken by the introduction of martial law in poland and the european parliament a few dozen hours later gave a very clear sign that it remembered those who did not have a chance to live in freedom. i also remember that many years later, when we regained, together with half of europe, the independence of our countries and the freedom of our citizens, but we were in an absolute economic collapse, linked, among other things, to a gigantic debt, it was from the european parliament that the strongest signal was sent in favour of a radical reduction of debt, which allowed poland and many other countries to get back on their feet. it was a decision that was a testament to the highest level of european solidarity. it was a decision that allowed tens of millions of europeans to emerge from an economic and civilizational crisis that lasted a dozen years, a crisis that was incomparably deeper than what we now call the crisis. what happened then, thanks also to the european parliament, thanks to all those who believed in the sense of solidarity as the foundation of a united europe, is today, i think, a great lesson for those who do not believe that a united europe, a europe that believes in its own strength, will find a remedy for the crisis of our time as well. i would like to repeat once again for those who do not remember: the crisis we are facing today, for all those europeans who have had to live in poverty and slavery for several decades, is a challenge that is important, but not final and incomparable to the one we have emerged from thanks to the solidarity of all europe. i would therefore like to get straight to the point and describe what i believe is most important not only for the next six months, that is, for the polish presidency, but also for the permanent task, the permanent challenge for the whole of europe. this is the simplest question, not some complicated philosophy: is the response to the crisis, both the temporary one, related to the financial crisis, the situation of some european countries, especially in the south of europe, the response to also this deeper crisis, the crisis of trust in europe, the crisis of a global dimension, is the response to be leaving europe, reducing what is european and common, or is the response to be what we have tested over the decades and what has worked well. (cheers and applause) the experience of europe as a community, but also the personal experience of each of us, tells us that the best response of europeans, the best invention of europeans is a united europe. i would like to stress very strongly, as i have said many times before many of you in this chamber, that this is not a speech just for the inauguration of the presidency today: united europe, its institutions, its budget, its objectives are not the source of the crisis. we know very well where the sources of the current financial crisis are, and it would be a false response, the worst possible, if we believed those who say: we will reduce europe and this will be our response to the crisis. history shows that when europeans believed that the answer to threats was to increase nationalism, statism, protectionism, it invariably ended in disaster. today we are not facing the same threats as in the past, but historical awareness, knowledge of the history of europe since its foundation, makes us believe in this recipe, which is solidarity between nations, solidarity between people, the willingness to help each other when others need it, solidarity understood not as charity, but as cooperation for the common good, where sometimes someone has to give more, so that whoever needs help sometime in the future can give back what he has received. (cheers and applause) today, we sometimes hear that the best response to the financial crisis, or the crisis caused by the events in north africa and the increase in illegal immigration, is to increase barriers within europe. i would like to say that the discussion on schengen is a basic, very strong illustration of the dilemma facing europe today. from our point of view, it is in europe's interest to protect these fundamental - i think - rights of european citizens, which include freedom of movement within the european union (thank you) and this is a value that we should absolutely protect. it does not conflict with our conviction that the external borders of the european union should be well guarded. that is why we are building the community, also when we are enlarging it, so that at the same time within the community we can allow the maximum of freedom for each member of that community. this community will be safe if we can keep its external borders well guarded. we can and should expand these frontiers, but it is not the way to protect our community to create barriers within the community. that's a false answer, and that's why (applause) it's going to be such an important task to strengthen frontex not just during these six months. i understand that everyone is worried about the immigration situation, but they are looking for this fake recipe. we must understand them, but at the same time we must take action to prevent europe from re-establishing internal barriers. in the context of the crisis, we also sometimes talk about what to do with one of the most important tools of the european community, which is undoubtedly the european budget. sometimes we question the value of strengthening european institutions. it seems to me that it is extremely important today that we take an open, unhypocritical approach to this dilemma. i am convinced that the answer to the crisis is more europe, there is more european integration (applause), and that requires strong european institutions. i believe this deeply, but this belief is also underpinned by the experience of a whole generation of millions of europeans once on the other side of the old iron curtain. our experience tells us that more europe - which does not mean more ideology, more false philosophy - is a very practical decision. more europe means spending european money wisely, european institutions capable of making decisions, more european policies, more european leadership. without taking up this challenge, we will be increasingly helpless in the face of the global dimensions of the crisis. our experience also tells us that more europe means more freedom, more prosperity, more practical solidarity, more security, in the individual experience of the world. is not a united europe the answer to our experience of the first and second world wars? is not a united europe the best invention here in europe that protects us from ourselves? in our history, we've also created threats to ourselves. an integrated europe of free citizens is also a europe that is secure from within but also from outside threats. (cheers and applause) i know that not everyone shares this view, although i am convinced that everyone, whether they are deeply religious europeans or sceptics, share in common the value system on which a united europe is founded. you can criticize this or that aspect of europe as an institution, but nobody in this room is questioning the meaning of freedom, human rights, democracy, freedom of speech, freedom of religion. and let's just say that this is the place on earth where, even if things don't go our way, the core values that we all agree on are the best protected in the world. it cannot be, and i am deeply convinced that there is growing doubt about its meaning here in europe, and outside europe, as it was 10, 20 years ago, millions of people long to be able to live in the same political, civic, social, economic conditions in which we europeans live. sometimes we stop believing that this is the best place on earth, but everyone outside the european union knows that this is the best place on earth. (cheers and applause) it's not an ideology. so much of our debate is about illegal immigration, which we obviously have to deal with, but let's also note that the direction of this immigration has been the same for decades. never from the european union to the outside, always from the outside to the european union. the people, by their decisions, by their escapes from places where they are either in slavery or poverty or misery, show us every day that europe is truly the best place on earth, that nobody has ever invented anything better. and it's not because god insisted that people here have a better life than people in other parts of the world. the manna does not fall from the sky here, it is better here, because we have persevered in this fundamental fidelity to the fundamental values on which a united europe is based. and remembering where europe's roots are is also a very important foundation for our thinking about the crisis today. we talk about greece a lot. greece is associated by some only with financial problems, with a breach of the rules of financial governance. first of all, let's not look for a scapegoat. let us ask ourselves: were all the others really true to the principles they had set for themselves in their search for ways to combat the crisis? secondly, let us also remember that greece in our european consciousness is not a painful but in fact quite trivial financial problem. i don't disdain them, but they're banal in character. greece is also the experience that taught people and politicians, warring city-states, two and a half millennia ago, what solidarity means in the face of global threat. we are all from there, we would not be in this room, there would be no europe, if once upon a time people, distracted by petty interests, had not met one day and said: we can and must be together when such a challenge arises. so for me, greece is much more pericles than today's demonstrations over budget cuts. i say this because an effective fight against the crisis must be equipped with such historical memory that we know what we are really defending. polish priorities, or rather european priorities for the polish presidency, are part of our conviction that the more europe we have, the less crisis we will have (a europe understood as a guarantor of the values i have mentioned). and that's why we're looking for a europe that's safe in several dimensions. that is why our priority will be to make europe safe, including in the obvious sense of europe's military security. it is high time to start a debate on how europe can respond in a coordinated way to future threats. we are talking about a europe that is secure in terms of energy, food and raw materials. security is the key to understanding the phenomenon of europe. there is a second priority which i very much believe in, the clear progress we want to make in the single market, including the growing market on the internet. freedom, including the removal of further barriers that restrict the development of the free market, can be, as it has been in the past, the source of growth for europe. if europe is not only security but also prosperity, then we must believe anew that the sources of prosperity have always been the same: free enterprise for people, minimum barriers, courage in decision-making, the primacy of the individual over the institution, the primacy of the market over the state, a level playing field for everyone in the economy. and that is why the single market and its development will be our second priority. there is a third thing we want to focus a lot of energy on: open europe. if we can - and i believe we can - build a europe that is safe, well protected, without internal barriers, then we need not fear opening up this europe to others. the next six months are also a breakthrough in negotiations with those who aspire to be in europe. it is a europe open to those who may never be part of our community, but who share the essential values of our community and have shown this in recent months. i'm talking about europe's southern neighbors. the eastern partnership, the completion of the accession process for croatia by signing the treaty, the association agreement with ukraine, and the wise and thoughtful support for those who want democracy and freedom in north africa are tasks which, if done well, can also strengthen the european union itself. the vision we're going to propose is a very practical vision. we want more europe, not just in europe but also on its periphery, if by europe we mean the value system we agreed upon when we founded the european union. i realize that the presidency is only six months, i have no exaggerated ideas about the tools at the disposal of the presidency, i know the lisbon treaty, i do not overestimate the role of individuals in history, although these roles are not to be underestimated. despite the modest tools at the presidency's disposal, despite the time of crisis we are feeling so acutely, i am convinced that we will contribute a lot of polish enthusiasm, polish energy, polish optimism, which has allowed us to get through the crisis quite safely, because we really believe in europe and we want to work with you (applause), by doing these practical tasks, to bring about a reopening of the investment chapter in europe, so that we all believe in europe again. i know it's possible, and i'll be at your service, all of you, for the next six months. i'm looking forward to a good working relationship. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr prime minister, for your speech, which sets out the most important tasks we will have to face in the next six months, but also for the vision and concept of europe as seen from poland's perspective. thank you very much for this presentation. i now ask the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, whom i warmly welcome to join us, to speak.
president of the commission. − mr president, please allow me to start by thanking prime minister tusk for not only outlining his vision for the first polish presidency of the council, but also his vision on europe. your words, prime minister, were very inspiring. i know they come from a sincere commitment to and belief in the importance of our european project, a project based on values. as poland embarks upon its historic journey at the helm of the council of the european union, let me tell you that i have every confidence that poland will uphold this vision, your vision, with rigour, and will execute the strategy with the same authority that it has shown in preparing this presidency. in doing so, poland will have the full support of the european commission. for we too have a similar vision of europe, the europe we want to see in ten years from now. this is a vision of – and a plan for – a strong, confident and innovative europe. a europe with high employment, quality jobs for its citizens and competitive, knowledge-based industries. a europe with a fully exploited internal market. a europe that is open – open inside, but also open to the world. a europe whose citizens feel secure and confident in their futures. the plan to execute this vision is detailed in the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable, inclusive and smart growth. to allow this plan to flourish, we need stable macroeconomic foundations with the financial backstop stability mechanisms, tighter financial regulation and enhanced budgetary coordination. here, i would like to once again express how urgent it is for the european parliament and member states to come to an agreement sooner rather than later on the final points on the economic governance package. i am glad that the polish presidency has seamlessly continued the efforts of the hungarian presidency to find a solution, together with the european parliament. with all these elements in place, we will need the right tools to make this vision a reality and put europe back on a track to prosperity. the commission believes that the proposals we presented last week for the 2014-2020 multi-annual financial framework will be a crucial instrument in delivering this vision. as i explained yesterday in this parliament, the fundamental guiding principle in the commission’s budgetary proposals is to ensure european added value. poland is indeed a strong advocate of the added value of the european union. we just heard in very clear terms this commitment of prime minister tusk. therefore i look to the presidency to shape the debate on the eu’s future budget over the second half of this year in rational and constructive terms. let me tell you that i am very encouraged by the positive reactions of this parliament, and also by the early reaction in council considering the proposal a credible and solid basis for negotiations. the important work to be done in the coming months will not only have a fundamental impact on the discussions next year, but it will also lay the ground for europe’s future prosperity. the overarching priority of our proposals is to boost european growth and jobs. this means strengthening the backbone of our internal market by funding better connections for energy, transport and it between member states. it means increased and targeted spending on research, innovation and education to boost competitiveness; believing in our future by investing in our young people. together with the forthcoming initiatives to deepen the single market, these proposals will, i hope, be strengthened by the positive vision of the polish presidency on ‘european integration as the source of growth’. the budget proposals aim to enhance our security, which is also one of the three pillars of the polish presidency agenda. security means improving our environment and climate. it means guaranteeing our energy supply. it means helping europeans to feel safe by investing in the fight against crime and terrorism, as well as dedicating resources to migration and asylum policies. security and freedom of circulation are not incompatible. in this context i refer to recent news coming from denmark. as you know, i expressed directly to the prime minister of denmark, in may, my grave concerns relating to respect of treaty freedoms – free movement of goods, services and persons – and of the schengen acquis. since then, intensive and constructive contacts between the commission services and denmark are taking place on a daily basis at different levels. denmark assures the commission that it has no intention of infringing eu law and is ready to cooperate with the commission. we will assess in detail the recent measures introduced by the danish authorities. free movement of people, goods and services is a central piece of the european construction and guaranteed by the treaties that all member states have ratified. (applause) undermining free movement is jeopardising the internal market, solidarity among europeans and the very european project. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, will do its utmost to ensure this is respected all over europe. we have done it in the past, we will do it in the future. the third pillar of the presidency’s agenda is europe’s openness to the world. the commission has also sought, throughout the budget proposals, to guarantee an open europe. we believe that europe must invest in the stability and prosperity of its neighbourhood to the east and south, both because it is morally right and because it makes sense economically. in this regard, i welcome the presidency’s commitment to our eastern neighbourhood, which will culminate in the eastern partnership summit in september. i also pay tribute to the polish presidency’s commitment to build on the support europe has shown in the first half of the year to the democratic movements in our southern neighbourhood. i moreover look to poland to advance with the preparations for croatia’s accession treaty with the same dedication as demonstrated by the hungarian presidency. securing our future is also about securing our values, not letting them be threatened by short-term concerns. solidarity is a concept so perfectly espoused by the poles (i will venture to say that the polish word that is most known outside poland is solidarność). solidarity is an integral part of the entire financial perspective proposal: solidarity with our poorer regions, solidarity also with neighbouring countries that need our support, but above all solidarity with our children and grandchildren, to do our best to ensure they inherit a sustainable and strong europe, a europe we can be proud of. poland is indeed a european success story. it has not only escaped recent recession but has become one of our union’s drivers of growth. this puts poland in a strong position to pursue the financial perspective discussions in the council and the european parliament in a spirit of responsibility and ambition. in a time of widespread uncertainty in europe, poland will need to show strong leadership to steer a course through turbulent events while maintaining its ambitious agenda. historic times such as the ones we are living through demand historic leadership. i believe that you, prime minister tusk, and poland, can provide this kind of leadership in the council. the commission will fully support the polish presidency’s vision of a more strong, secure and open europe. i am confident in poland’s ability not only to lead the council of the union but also to breathe new enthusiasm and optimism into the european project.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. prime minister! on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to say that we are very keen to see the polish presidency succeed, because we believe that it can bring fresh energy to the somewhat stifling atmosphere of the european institutions. but there's a problem with that. during the polish presidency, your government has decided to hold parliamentary elections in poland. it means your cabinet will not end the presidency. we'll meet in december for its summary with the other government. no matter who becomes prime minister, it will be a different government anyway. we know that all the offices during the election campaign are working on reduced turnover. i am afraid that the polish presidency could be the same. i also hope, mr prime minister, that you will not succumb to the temptation, although such voices are heard in poland from the ruling camp, to limit the democratic debate by using the argument that anyone who criticizes the government during the presidency is harming the country and europe. prime minister! i wanted to remind you that silencing political rivals is not acceptable in europe. one more thing, your ministers say that the polish presidency is to be an inclusive and community-oriented presidency. that's fine, but what does that mean in practice? in europe, we see two forms of political arrogance. one of them is the drive towards a federal, post-national europe, and this arrogance is infuriating to millions of people on our continent who are sick of social engineering. the second form of arrogance is the belief of the strongest countries, germany and france in particular, that they are the ones who are in charge of europe. this arrogance is causing anger among many of my colleagues in this parliament, on the left and the right. we at ecr are euro-realists and believe that the strength of europe is the strength of the freedom, enterprise and culture of the european peoples and countries. we therefore express our conviction that you will contribute in some way to weakening this arrogance, that you will contribute to the fact that we will no longer be afraid of the liquidation of states and the creation of a european demos from above, and on the other hand that you will make europe less discriminatory. and this, mr. prime minister, will be a true test of european leadership. will you take on the challenge of a strong union presidency, or will you settle for the easy, the nice, the painless, but also the meaningless? whether you will be remembered as a determined leader or forgotten as a politician of safe conformity.
mr president, prime minister, please! thank you very much for this message of european solidarity. the crises we're talking about here would last for five consecutive presidencies. each of them would be easily dealt with by a separate union. the peculiarity of this situation is that they are cumulative. but as history teaches, poland is good in difficult times. the five challenges are the debt crisis, the dismantling of schengen, the crisis of the european neighbourhood policy, the lack of military capability of the union and finally the crisis of financial solidarity. but in the long term, if we look years ahead, the most important thing is the european neighbourhood policy. without success in this policy, europe will be neither secure nor prosperous. we're surprised by what's happening down south. we are at an impasse with what is happening in the east and a fundamental paradigm shift is needed. to transvestite the american leader, you would have to say, "democracy is stupid". we must strengthen the actors of democracy, which is why i wish the flagship of the polish presidency, the european foundation for democracy, well. transformation to democracy and market economy is our specialty. good luck to you, prime minister!
mr president, mr prime minister, mr president of the council, mr president barroso, i would like to thank you for your support. i must say, mr. prime minister, i enjoyed hearing you speak. you've given us all a real treat. we were expecting what you said, namely faith, reason, a united europe, memory, and the credit of parliament in creating all these phenomena. prime minister! you have answered the needs of this chamber, which were in addition due to the attitude, the position and the way of speaking of your predecessor. i just want to make it very clear that you and your predecessor are from the same political group. we have to assume that within a political group we can have very different presidencies. the memory of which the lord spoke makes it very clear that societies have common aspirations, common goals, but different formations, different governments. in our polish case, it was also the left, the leftist president, the leftist government that brought poland into the european union. now we can say very clearly to ourselves that often it is a matter of not the ends that the lord spoke of. president schulz expressed his enthusiasm. we don't differ here in our goals. and our major differences may lie in how we achieve those goals. in our case, it's about the way, the ways out of the crisis. yes, every crisis is different. but, prime minister, two weeks ago we were unable to reach a conclusion on the whole package of the new economic order. we differ on the question of who should be the main beneficiary. the proposals that most of us, including your group, have drawn up, come down to this. it's the citizens who pay, it's the people who sacrifice. we're against it. we are asking for social solidarity. the sacrifices shall be proportionate to the possibilities. so it's important that we actually increase budget revenues. support the financial transaction tax, support also as the council under your presidency, for your sake eurobonds. we're very comfortable with the investment. we just want to make sure that words and actions go together. prime minister! you're cutting back on investment in your own country. we cannot allow this to happen in the european forum. words and deeds will have to go hand in hand, because from today's great enthusiasm for the lord's speech to disappointment, the road may be short.
prime minister! when the prime minister of poland is in this room, even if you are in opposition to him, it gives hope. this room needs hope, and i'm very anxious that you don't be fooled by the compliments you've heard. i'm glad you heard it. everybody likes it. but there's been a lot of pessimism in this room over the last few months. there was talk of crisis, of closing borders, of limiting integration. we expect you to come up with some big new ideas, to talk about important issues: about the demographic crisis, about the crisis of values, about the crisis of the family, about how we should approach our neighbourhood differently, to propose some new idea, maybe the eastern partnership university. you can tell me! i would like to ask you to take these compliments and to turn them into good, new ideas, so that this vision of europe really becomes a reality, and then we will all be happy. i wish you all the best, i wish you all the best, and i wish that poland, no matter who starts and who ends this presidency, makes the best use of its five minutes. if we meet again in this room in six months' time, we can say to each other that it was not just a compliment, and that you have at least partially broken the pessimism in this room.
prime minister! you spoke very well today about european values. i wish the polish presidency success. but it will be possible if you and your government will put these values, such as freedom of speech, freedom of the press, the right to oppose, into practice, not just talk about them. it was under your rule in poland that journalists were fired en masse from the public media just because they were critical of the government. it was your government that took the court to liquidate the de facto most prestigious and most cited daily in poland, the rzeczpospolita. why would you do that? because he was critical of the government. recently, a british co-owner felt compelled to sell his stake in the paper for this very reason. in poland, recently, security officers armed with live ammunition entered the home of a student netizen just because he was running a website critical of the authorities, in order to intimidate him and confiscate his computer. the polish presidency can only succeed if you and your government actually uphold the values you spoke so eloquently about today, mr prime minister! from words to deeds! (the speaker agreed to answer the question put in accordance with the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
do i remember correctly that you were minister of justice when armed gangs attacked people in poland, people were locked up in prisons at 6 in the morning, and one of the women you wanted to lock up committed suicide? do i remember correctly that you were the minister of justice, or am i mistaken?
you remember well and president schulz should know that under our government, it was true that at 6 a.m. the police would come in and the special services would come in to people suspected of corruption and serious crimes, to people in power who, using that power, were robbing the public. we fought against corruption, but you fight against what? in our day, the security services didn't go to the homes of those who were critical of the government at 6 a.m. they were brought in when the prosecution and the court were making a decision because there was a suspicion of corruption and crime. that's the difference, mr. ambassador, and that's the difference, mr. prime minister. that would justify you going in at 6 a.m. when there's a crime to be investigated, corruption of the people in power. and in your day, gambling is frowned upon. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i have a question for the previous speaker: do you realize how much dutch companies have made from the fact that poland is in the european union and that the polish market is open to products that the dutch produce well and sell to poland? does my predecessor not see the benefits for the old eu countries of polish consumers buying their goods?
it is necessary to explain what you said, mr schulz.
mr president, i am indeed responsible for the proceedings and i believe that everyone has the right to speak and then we react. our colleague, mr. kaminski, clearly reacted and it was a very strong reaction. i don't think we should be fanning the flames in this room. that's why i didn't react. i think we should move on to the next point of discussion.
good afternoon, prime minister! i think that today you have presented the face of poland that we poles in the european parliament want to see: an optimistic poland, a poland that sees its place in europe, a poland that does not close its eyes to problems, but has a positive vision of solving these problems. i think that today in this room there was a voice, not ideological but ideological, and i think that europe needs such a voice, and i am convinced that you spoke today not only on behalf of your party and your government, but also on behalf of all poles, including those who do not support your government, but who support poland's place in europe, support poland's success and wish you success with this presidency. we will of course be very interested in what you have been talking about, that european solidarity. and it's very good that that was highlighted. our role is to convince those countries that -- and we have to respect that -- they pay into the budget of the european union, but we have to convince them that the money that is invested in poorer countries is not money wasted. an investment in poland, an investment in our region, is an investment in the welfare of the entire european union. and this solidarity has a very pragmatic dimension, also for those from whom we expect money, of course, because they are rich. (the speaker agreed to answer the question put in accordance with the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to ask my colleague, whom i respect, mr michał kamiński, whether he thinks that the commitment of the polish government and the prime minister to european solidarity is reflected in the fact that the government recently adopted the dessa report, which assumes further inequalities for farmers in europe, rejects a uniform rate and the possibility of the same treatment for farmers for their same hard work. at the same time, i wanted to express my surprise that the prime minister did not react to the insulting words of mp siwiec against the polish state officials that you are now supervising, who are officials who risk their lives and health in the fight for an honest poland, in the fight against corruption.
first of all, i'd like to say that i support polish exports, but i don't support the export of foreign clothing from our country. that's the first thing. but, in answer to the question about farmers, i would like to say that i have not been in the political party for almost a year now, whose leader demanded the abolition of subsidies for polish farmers.
mr prime minister, mr president! there are moments when mps are proud of their country, they are proud of their prime minister, and that feeling will not be disturbed when everyone in this room is a politician and understands what it means to take the election campaign to the european level. this impression will not be affected, and we are very pleased with your speech, also because we are highlighting the issues that are most important to the european union today. as polish meps, we very much expect the polish government to put a strong emphasis on cohesion policy, and cohesion policy is not a temporary, transitional policy for the poor, but an investment policy, a flexible policy that can respond to new challenges that we are not even expecting today. prime minister! we are committed to doing our job, but we are counting on strong support in the council of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! as you can see, something is happening in this room. it's not like it's just honey and everything's cool. i want to talk about the eastern policy, the new partnership policy that we are trying to redefine. a few dates i'd like to address to the prime minister and the entire delegation. if the trade association agreement with ukraine is initialled this semester, there is a chance that it will be translated next year and signed by the partner countries after the translation. if signed, it could be ratified before the 2012 ukrainian elections. if signed, it can be ratified in 2013 by the european parliament and then become a reality. if the agreement is not initialled at the eu-ukraine summit this semester, it will simply blow up. it's not just a delay of two or three months. so i would say that you have a unique opportunity to point to a new driving force for the neighbourhood policy, for the eastern partnership, at the eastern partnership summit in warsaw. there was a classic saying, "there's still a debate about who did it". "if not us, then who, and if not now, then when?" i dedicate this to you.
prime minister! my dear colleagues! i too regret that we, the three european institutions, have not been able to conclude the negotiations on the economic governance package. this is a regulatory package that has the potential to fill an extremely important gap in the current system of how the union works. the absence of it reinforces the power of risk, reinforces the power of speculation in european markets, and also in situations like greece, it makes us realize how urgent it is to finish these regulations. this agreement is also needed for the long-term health and growth prospects of the european economy, for a return to normal market conditions with less uncertainty, which is conducive to the investment that europe so badly needs. finally, a sound economic governance framework is also a prerequisite for further enlargement of the euro area. without this agreement, we will be holding back the convergence process, we will be undermining the prospects for the accession of new member states, and we cannot allow that to happen. therefore, mr. prime minister, we are counting heavily on the commitment of the great polish finance minister, but also of you personally, to find a compromise. this is the case where time is against us.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! next year we will be celebrating 50 years of the common agricultural policy. a policy that, according to the rome treaties, was to ensure universal access to food at adequate prices and adequate incomes for farmers. the first two objectives were achieved, the third not. farmers in europe earn 55% of the income of other occupational groups. we attach great importance to cohesion policy, but it also requires the cohesion of rural and urban areas, the equalization of living standards, the reduction of the development gap. young people can't run away from farming. the common agricultural policy is good for the environment, it produces public goods for which farmers are not paid. in the wto negotiations, the union is making too many concessions at the expense of agriculture. food security requires strong control services at national level, rather than scattered, ineffective controls in regions. european farmers, including polish farmers, expect higher incomes, which they deserve for their hard work. we need to invest in europe. we need a strong budget for cohesion policy, the cap and innovation. we must manage europe wisely and rationally. i'm sure poland is ready for that.
let me begin by apologizing to the members of the european parliament for the fact that the polish meps from law and justice are using the european parliament for our internal debate and are conducting our polish-polish disputes and election campaign here. i'd like to speak to mr. ziobro, but i can see he's not in the room, as usual. man, it's not working! and now, i turn to the priorities of the presidency: i speak not only for the poles, but for many citizens of the european union. that is exactly what we want to support you in this goal, which is an open europe, a europe without internal borders, but with strongly guarded external borders. these objectives can be achieved by strengthening the frontex agency, these objectives can be achieved by stopping the dangerous tendencies to revise the schengen treaty. we wish you well and you can count on us, who sit in this house, in this building not only on poles . (the speaker agreed to answer the question put in accordance with the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i join in the regret expressed by both mr olbrych and mr protasiewicz that we are unfortunately campaigning in this house. i speak as a member of the european parliament and i am very sorry about that. question to my honourable colleague: do you not think that the root cause of this is the decision of prime minister tusk, who many, many months ago, in response to the explicit requests of the opposition to hold elections before july 1, decided that the elections would take place during our presidency? do you not think that this is at least partly the fault of your political group? i'm not from pis or platform, so i think it's a valid question.
the mandate of a member of parliament, but also of a member of the european parliament, requires knowledge of the constitution, mr. ambassador migalski! as you know, the elections in poland are called by the president, not the prime minister, and please educate yourself! and i just want to draw attention to the fact that mr. legutki, who was also part of this discussion, is no longer in this debate. you are only interested in domestic politics, you have a 'deep respect' for the future of europe, and your applause for the speech of the greatest eurosceptic, mr farage, who called for the dissolution of the european union, is a clear example of this. let the poles see this!
ladies and gentlemen, as members of the european parliament, we have a responsibility to take responsibility for what we say and how we debate in the european parliament.
mr president, prime minister, please! i'm proud to be polish. i am proud to be a european. i'm happy that poland is the president today. i want to congratulate the prime minister for successfully building on the great achievements of his predecessors, a european achievement that poland undoubtedly possesses. and for that, i want to thank the prime minister very, very much. we have two very important debates ahead of us on the future of both cohesion and agricultural policy. i would expect the prime minister to allow the polish presidency to deal with these issues. we are therefore concerned about the european commission's laziness and delay in passing on the legislative packages. i would expect the prime minister to agree with mr barroso that this legislative package will be presented as soon as possible and that the polish presidency will successfully complete it. as i would expect, mr. prime minister, we will return to the much-awaited issue of the charter of fundamental rights. poland is the only country not to have acceded to the charter of fundamental rights. there is great expectation in the european union that you will correct the mistake of your predecessor.
prime minister! as a pole, i wish the polish presidency success, but an effective presidency is a skillful integration of the national interest into pan-european solutions. the german presidency concluded the treaty of lisbon, but it is a strange coincidence that germany, as the most populous country, is the biggest beneficiary of the transition from nice to the double majority system. the french presidency has been hammering away at the climate package, but it turns out that france will make the most money selling alternative energy technologies when the package comes into force. prime minister! listen to this concert of powers and learn from it. you have the golden horns today. you have the presidency, you have the speaker of the house. why do you lack the courage to raise issues whose continuation in their present form will ruin parts of europe, including poland? why should a polish farmer receive 150 euros less per hectare than a german farmer over the next few years, and why should the polish countryside lose tens of billions of euros as a result? why don't you initiate a withdrawal from the climate package that will ruin the polish economy and cause electricity prices to rise by 100% in a short time? prime minister! you have the golden horn. history will judge you not for the fine words you speak, but for what you do for the people.
president of the commission. − mr president, i will make some brief remarks, summarising a debate that i believe was very interesting. first of all, prime minister tusk, you have seen a remarkable consensus from the main political forces of this parliament – what i consider to be the pro-european, responsible forces – supporting your speech and your vision. at the same time, it is interesting that we heard more than usually aggressive remarks from the eurosceptic or europhobe fringes. remarks were made here today which were very close to racism; we also heard xenophobic messages and some expressions of naked, shameless nationalism. why should this be? i think the reason is the following. some of those eurosceptics and europhobes were expecting the enlargement of the european union to mean disintegration, and now they are very disappointed to see poland, a new member of the union, saying not only that we need to enlarge but also that we need to deepen europe, and to listen to your commitment to, and your conviction in, the european project. so, prime minister tusk, congratulations. today you have disappointed the eurosceptics and europhobes – that is one of the outcomes of this debate. (applause) what basically is their message, if they have one, apart from ‘no’? for simply saying ‘no’ to anything constructive is the simplest demagogic message of all populism. their message is that, although they are not necessarily against europe and they believe in european cooperation, they do not need the european institutions, the commission or the european parliament. what they say we need is an internal market: we need a single market. so they say ‘yes’ to the freedom of circulation of goods but ‘no’ to the circulation of people – as if it were possible in europe to have a market without these indispensable principles of freedom. we know well, from the experience we now have – and you know well, prime minister, because we have worked very closely on some difficult issues – that without strong institutions in europe, without a strong commission, a strong european court of justice and a strong european parliament, even the single market will be at risk. the temptation will be present to break the single market, to have internal protectionism, and to return to the naked nationalism that made a disaster of europe’s past. that is why it is important today to reaffirm, as you have reaffirmed, our values. those values are, of course, about an internal single market and about opening our borders, but they are also about solidarity and cohesion, because without solidarity a union cannot exist. some of the eurosceptics say that they are for europe but that they are against the european union. what an interesting nuance! if you go to washington, moscow or beijing, you will find they do not make that distinction: it is europe or it is the european union. it is basically the same thing. if the european union fails, all of europe will be put at risk. that is why we need a strong european union to protect our interests and to protect our values. prime minister tusk, the message you conveyed to this parliament today was a message of confidence in our common future in europe and in the world. we are grateful to you for that and we want to encourage you to have a successful presidency of the council. the commission will support your work because i know that is the way we can build a better future for all europeans. (applause)
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! first of all, of course, i must begin by thanking you for your words, both for those which were a clear endorsement of the way i have presented our affairs, but also for all the other speeches which were a little less enthusiastic but which confirmed the meaning of this debate, confirmed the meaning of the european parliament, confirmed the belief of even the most sceptical in this chamber that this is why we have built this building, to exchange our views, including on the future of europe. thank you very much for the - as someone rightly pointed out - compliments. compliments more, i think, to my country than to myself. indeed, even if the sceptical voices of poles can sometimes be heard here, today in my country the level of unambiguous support for europe is impressive. we've boasted about it many times, but it's a phenomenon worth talking about often. after a few years, which were good but not easy, over 80% of poles are very happy that we are in the european union. i wanted to share that energy and belief in the meaning of our actions here. i'm not the source. i am simply here to inform you that there is a nation in europe which believes almost entirely in our common europe. perhaps i was not quite precise when i spoke of an initiative which you have reminded me of here, an initiative which is also intended to confirm in practice my conviction that cooperation with parliament is not just a flirtation. we are not talking about cooperation because it is convenient to talk about it in parliament. we really believe that if we want more integration, and not bureaucracy or bad routine, then we must involve the european parliament and the national parliaments in the most important debates. hence our proposal to organise a conference on the future of european finance in the autumn, an open debate with parliament and representatives of the national parliaments in the lead. of course, other institutions will also be involved in this debate: the commission and the european council. we are convinced that if we are to speak boldly and without hypocrisy about the future of europe, we must also speak about the future of european money. let's call that a confirmation. it is also a sign that we want this open debate to be permanent in the future. we would also like to work intensively to ensure that the budgetary debate is calm and constructive. i have made no secret of my intention to do so, and we want to protect the european budget from actions which could reduce the capacity of europe as a whole to act. we have talked a lot about schengen in the context of two things that came up: the danish decisions and dreams or the expectations of romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area as soon as possible. as regards denmark's actions, but also some of the statements made at the last european council, i am strongly opposed to any restriction of internal movement under the pretext of migration problems, and i am more in favour of strengthening external borders. the remaining danish actions may be worrying as another signal that full freedom of movement within the european union may be at risk in the future. as we have heard in this chamber, freedom of movement in the european union is seen as a curse rather than a blessing. i therefore believe that together with the commission we should look for measures to guarantee the free movement of people, while protecting europe from the negative effects of illegal migration or other similar events. as regards romania and bulgaria, any member state of the european union which, like romania and bulgaria, fulfils - also in the commission's assessment - the technical and organisational requirements to be in the schengen area should be in the schengen area. we formulate requirements, conditions and criteria so that the countries that meet them can benefit from this basic principle. the question was whether the presidency would act in favour of community policy, so that the major powers would not dictate the decisions taken jointly. but at the same time, there were voices questioning the need to strengthen european institutions. we have to make a decision. i think that nobody wants one, two or three countries in the european union to impose their own selfish views on anyone because of their potential. that is why we have built the european institutions, and why even after lisbon there is a rotating presidency, so that the differences in potential between the countries of the union can be eliminated by community policy, but that requires strong institutions. our ambition is to co-manage the work of the european union so that everyone feels an equal participant, but this is possible only if we do not question institutions such as the european commission, but on the contrary, believe in the sense of strengthening them. then we have the tools to implement community policy. if we really want to have a community policy, we must have strong community institutions: the commission, the parliament and others. otherwise, we're fooling ourselves. i also want to reassure everyone about the few voices of meps from poland that came up during the debate. the date of the election is actually set by the constitution. the government has nothing to do with the timing of the election. elections in poland will be held on the constitutional date. it's unfortunate that this is happening during the presidency, but we're going to make sure that these two processes don't interfere. there was no proposal in the polish parliament for an earlier dissolution of parliament. it seems better to have a democratic government that respects constitutional deadlines than an executive that uses any pretext to shorten or extend the term of office. this was the case, for example, in poland with my predecessors who had their terms of office shortened. they're the ones who have decided that our presidency falls on election day, not me. our ambition is to support negotiations with ukraine for association and deeper trade. i was in kiev a few months ago and i think i was very clear about my intention as prime minister of the incoming government to use the best possible climate for ukraine and the european union to conclude an association agreement. this requires a great effort on the part of ukraine, because it is ukraine that, by joining the association agreement, must respect our common principles. everything seems to be going as smoothly as possible. i agree that this is the moment when, respecting all the rules and not giving anyone any concessions, we should put the next period on the "i" in the case of ukraine, but also in other countries. i am confident that in the course of six months, the progress of the various negotiations will be satisfactory. i'll do anything to make sure that happens. i know that for a substantial part of this house, environmental issues, and climate in particular, are a priority and a constant. but in all the places i've met you, i've never cheated on you. my or polish point of view is perhaps not enthusiastic enough to gain full acceptance from the pro-climate or pro-environmental avant-garde. i want to assure everyone that i fully understand the difference between pursuing the national interest in the various negotiations within the european union and the presidency, and i will be working in the best interests of europe with all the tools at my disposal and my personal skills, including in the preparations for durban. i am convinced that we will find a solution that does not undermine europe's ambitions for growth and development, while respecting our existing mutual commitments and agreements. in closing, i know that i haven't answered all the questions or responded to all the comments. although it's not my place, mr. chairman, i admit i haven't been tutoring anyone here, and i certainly won't be. i'm not a suicide! but i think that some of the questions and statements should not be treated with emotion, because even the statements that are demeaning to every true european, that are contrary to the fundamental principle of equality of every human being, regardless of race, nationality or place of birth, i see as compromising the authors, not the nations mentioned.
thank you very much, prime minister, for your comments. the reception was visible throughout the room, but i still have a procedural matter and i would very much like two or three minutes more. mr barry madlener wishes to make a personal statement under rule 151.
ladies and gentlemen! i didn't hear that statement over the microphone, but that doesn't mean we're gonna drop the case. i wanted to ask president schulz to clarify this matter.
ladies and gentlemen! that was a routine exchange. i just wanted to thank all the colleagues for the debate. it was a very heated debate, but it was the kind of debate we wanted in our main hall. so, i thank the prime minister again. we are therefore closing the agenda item. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, prime minister, i have to tell you something. listening to the speeches of leading polish politicians so far, i find that the approach to the polish presidency is in line with the "romantic" tradition, very strongly rooted in our mentality. the time has come for an increasingly confident poland to renew an old europe that doubts itself. unlike the romantic poets, however, we are not seeking spiritual renewal, but primarily economic renewal. the challenges facing poland are very difficult: the eurozone crisis, the need to support greece, the schengen issue, and they could also lead to a re-evaluation of many of the priorities of the polish presidency. the european media today do not write about the eastern partnership or the instrument for democracy, but about greece, libya and the schengen area. this sets the tone for the next six months. at the same time, i believe that poland is a credible eu presidency in times of crisis: we have experienced firsthand the economic reforms that have led to the need to tighten the belt. we have also proved that such reforms pay off. i therefore believe that the polish presidency of the union can contribute to increasing its credibility in the international arena and thus also to overcoming the economic crisis. i hope it will bring poland satisfaction from a job well done and help to create a new image of our country as a reliable partner in difficult times!
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! the polish presidency of the council is an ambitious plan for europe. i am glad that it is receiving such broad support in the european parliament. this support is not surprising either. it is clear that the programme of the polish presidency is a pro-european one. the vast majority of meps support solidarity, the single market, free movement of people, openness, and europe's military, food and energy security. support for the polish presidency is therefore not only based on sympathy but also on a common vision. the only thing that is shocking is the behavior of xenophobes or euro-phobes. the law and justice mps have joined this exotic coalition. i also regret that the law and justice mps used today's debate to peddle their false theses and campaign. shame on you, gentlemen, shame on you! by the way, it turned out that the law and justice mps don't know the polish constitution. well, it wasn't the current government or the prime minister who decided on the date of this year's parliamentary elections. the date of the elections is determined by the provisions of the constitution. so if anyone is responsible for the fact that the elections will be held in the middle of the polish presidency, it is jarosław kaczyński. it was kaczyński who led to the shortening of the term of office of the sejm of the republic of poland in 2007. there has been no request to shorten the current term of office. fortunately, europe knows who is lying on this issue. it's just a shame we're wasting time on things that don't matter.
in writing. we also feared that the inefficiency of polish institutions would result in eu money being misused. the old eu countries feared that the new members, with their incoherent administrations and quarrelling political parties, would disrupt the work of the union and that poles would flood european labour markets. most of the fears have not come true. and the negative stereotypes are transformed into a new image. polish business has adapted to the new rules of the game, and our economy is developing rapidly against the background of crisis-hit european countries. this was also possible thanks to the european funds we spent developing the regions. this is largely due to local governments, which have become a powerful institution for stabilising democracy. poland is an important member of the eu today, and its voice counts. poland is also important to the union because poles are among the most pro-european societies. the polish government should express these sentiments during its presidency. the union, shaken by crises of all kinds, needs a leadership that recalls european values and works for a cohesive and strong union.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the polish presidency of the council of the eu is in a difficult european time and must face great challenges and great expectations from the people of europe. we've heard voices in this room that are positive and negative, voices of optimism and voices of skepticism. but those who know the history of poland know that poles have always been full of hope and faith and thanks to these qualities we have managed to overcome so many problems. today poland is in a special place, today poland is achieving success. i am proud of the government of donald tusk, i am proud of the achievements of the poles and the achievements of the polish self-government. i have no doubt that poland will be the country that will be the model presidency in the future. mr. prime minister, i wish you success and a fruitful job. thank you.
in writing. it is a great pleasure to welcome the polish presidency. as a polish socialist and member of the european parliament, i support our presidency of the council of the eu. the polish presidency will start negotiations on the post-2013 financial framework. in this context, as a member of the parliamentary committee on culture, education and sport, i draw the presidency's attention in particular to the youth and sport programmes. it is important that the budget cuts of the crisis do not affect the eu's youth strategy. appropriate grants are needed for the comenius, erasmus, leonardo da vinci and the not yet fully implemented erasmus mundus programmes. poland, as the first country to hold the presidency, will have an impact on the shape of the european sport agenda. please note the written statement i drafted and adopted by the european parliament on increased support for sport at the grassroots level. however, as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i regret that the presidency, despite my pleas, does not intend to continue work on the fight against violence against women or on the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for all persons irrespective of religion, belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. these are the demands of the 18-month work programme of the three presidencies (polish, danish and cypriot) and the work on them has already begun under the spanish presidency.
in writing. the polish presidency is facing a particularly difficult time. first, the prerogatives of the office have been severely restricted and not all doubts in this regard have been clarified. secondly, and this is much more important, the polish presidency comes at a time of one of the most serious crises of european integration. in this unfavourable climate, the polish government has made it a priority to organise a 'escape' by taking steps to improve the competitiveness of the eu economy and avert the crisis. that's the best plan for the times. the presidency will also be a test of maturity for poland as a new eu member. i'm hoping we can get it right.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the internet is the most important tool for work today. the number of fixed and mobile broadband internet subscribers in europe now stands at 150 million. the demand for the link is still growing systematically. unfortunately, digital exclusion is still widespread, especially for people with low incomes or disabilities. i therefore agree with the commission and the member states that they should work towards ensuring broadband access for all europeans as soon as possible, including through financial assistance. the promotion of investments based on broadband technologies and the reduction of their costs, while ensuring fair competition between networks, strengthens the position of small and medium-sized enterprises. by enabling them to exploit the full potential of e-commerce and e-procurement, we are helping to increase demand. i therefore support the call for accelerating public procurement procedures using online resources and electronic invoicing. i voted for the report.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. i believe that development and investment in broadband technology can be of considerable importance for the competitiveness strategy of the europe 2020 initiative. increasing access to high-speed internet, its mobility and its capacity is a key value for some 500 million european consumers. this is a unique global number of participants of all kinds: consumers, businesses, administrations, public benefit organisations, who are taking advantage of the benefits of the internet in both their professional and private lives. it is worth remembering that the rapid deployment of broadband networks is of strategic importance for the development of innovation and efficiency in the eu, as well as for stimulating new small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and job creation in the eu. the benefits of infrastructure development in this area have a very positive impact in terms of increasing access to education, especially distance learning in peripheral areas. i believe that there is a need for publications on broadband investment, especially for public-private partnerships and local and regional authorities, to ensure that the best possible use is made of the funds for this purpose from the bottom up. further development could also provide a great opportunity for projects promoting dialogue between citizens and the eu institutions.
in writing. − in the age of the internet, the question of the protection of personal data is one of the most crucial. consumers expect to know who is using their data and how, and sometimes wish to enjoy ‘the right to be forgotten’ if they do not allow companies to take advantage of their personal data. this is the purpose of the commission’s communication on a ‘comprehensive approach to personal data protection in the eu’, which was followed by an own-initiative report in the parliament. the commission is proposing to revise current legislation on data protection and adjust it to the fast-moving technological and globalised environment created by the use of the internet. against this background, the voss report identifies challenges in the commission revision and calls to the establishment of a harmonized law on data protection that consolidates the diverse rules across the member states. another scoop of this report relates to the geographical coverage on the data protection legislation. accordingly, european companies who operate within and outside europe, as well as international companies who process european citizens’ data, will apply european data protection law. i believe the voss report is a desirable step in guaranteeing further protection of the personal data of eu citizens, therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the new regulation on food information is a very important instrument for consumers, who will be able to make more informed food purchasing decisions thanks to the new rules. the new rules will make labels more legible. this will no doubt make it easier for consumers to choose the foods they need in their diet. under the new rules, the energy content, fat, saturated fat, carbohydrate, sugar, protein and salt must be clearly indicated on the packaging. the content of the ingredients listed must be given per 100 grams or per 100 ml. in addition, the content of these ingredients may be converted per portion of the product. the labels will also have to contain information on allergenic substances. this is particularly important because of the increasing prevalence of allergies. i hope that with the new regulations, consumers will pay more attention to what they buy. however, i believe that consumers also need information campaigns on the new rules, and in particular on how to read some of the graphic motifs that often appear on food products.
in writing. −food safety is a priority for eu policy. therefore, all actions aimed at improving consumer awareness of the food they consume are desirable. we fully understand that in a time when obesity and cardiovascular disease caused by poor diet are killing large numbers of europeans, the inclusion of information on energy and nutritional value on packaging makes it easier for the average person to compose a balanced diet on his or her own. however, such information must be clear and understandable in order to serve the consumer. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the information on the chemical compounds is not used in the manufacture of the products concerned. the same is true of the indication of the origin of food. these details should be voluntary. the recent situation with spanish vegetables shows that this does not always work. false allegations of e. coli infection have cost the spanish food market millions.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? in countries with a still poorly developed road infrastructure, such as poland, road safety is a major challenge. the death toll is still staggering. last year, nearly four thousand people died on polish roads, and seventy-one during the last long weekend alone. citizens of other countries are also involved in these events, often ignoring the dire state of polish roads. drunk driving is a huge problem in many countries. although the ambitious target of halving road fatalities over the past decade has not been achieved, all efforts to improve road safety must be made. the inevitability of penalties for offences such as drink driving, seatbelt misuse or speeding in any country of the union should significantly reduce dangerous driving and the associated risk to life. i voted for the report.
in writing. − the european union should continue to strive for the results set out in the 2001 white paper. cross-border cooperation between countries is necessary in the form of facilitating access to national databases and the harmonisation of road safety legislation. the provisions on driving under the influence of alcohol deserve special attention. each year, drunk drivers are the main cause of fatal accidents. there can be no situation in which a person who breaks the rules, endangers life and health on the road, will remain unpunished.
in writing. - i'm satisfied with the outcome of today's vote. it was not condemned to the end, and i therefore welcomed the news that the alde group had withdrawn amendment no 36. this will allow the document to be adopted on second reading. studies have shown that drivers are more likely to break the law outside their home country. penalties for offences or crimes committed in the territory of a member state other than the country of residence are most often not enforced. the draft regulation adopted today provides for the electronic exchange of information between police forces in eu countries on a foreign driver who has committed a road traffic offence. the authorities of the country where the driver's vehicle is registered will be obliged to provide the registration data of the car if its owner is suspected of having committed an offence. the police then inform the owner or driver of the offence in writing in his/her mother tongue. i believe that the document adopted today will save at least a few lives on europe's roads.
in writing. − when discussing the budget, especially in times of economic crisis, we very often mention special flexibility measures, i.e. the eu solidarity fund or the european globalisation adjustment fund. these are very important measures, and i fully support their use. i would like to refer to the part of the budget that is intended to support european agriculture. as the world's population increases, so does the need for food. in order to ensure food security, i.e. universal access to healthy food for every citizen, expenditure on the common agricultural policy is fully justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep resolution on the preparation of the commission's work for 2012. as a member of the committee on education, culture and sport and the initiator of the written declaration on eu support for grassroots sport, which was adopted by the european parliament, i ask the commission to ensure that adequate funding is provided for local and amateur sport. the year 2012 has been declared the european year of older persons and solidarity between generations. i look forward to the commission's many initiatives to activate and support older people in the labour market. in poland, only 28% of people over 50 are working. that's the worst score in the european union. i also call for an eu directive on the prevention of violence against women and for swift action to unblock the non-discrimination directive.
in writing. - in the 1990s, because of creutzfeldt-jakob disease, caused by bse, we lived in horror. since then, research has been ongoing, and standards for animal husbandry, feeding, and slaughter have been tightened. despite the intensified efforts and the real progress, scientific studies have not confirmed the complete elimination of the threat from europe and there is therefore no reason to significantly relax the rules. after all, consumer safety is paramount. but the big question is the lack of protein in the ruminant diet. the standards for the presence of animal protein in feed are specifically regulated in union legislation. however, because of the lack of high-protein crops in europe, we are forced to import from outside the union, where high production standards are not always respected. the solution is to liberalize feed legislation or change the policy on high-protein crops (martin häusling report).
in writing. − as a long-time business executive, i am delighted with the efforts to increase the number of women in business. statistics clearly show that they are underrepresented, especially in management positions. legislation in this area is particularly important when companies themselves are reluctant to take action to promote women in management positions, which is part of the concept of corporate social responsibility. the project also highlights the need to create an appropriate network of counselling and training for women. the key to increasing the number of women in management positions is also to put in place an appropriate support system to enable women to reconcile family and professional life.
in writing. − the european parliament has just adopted the report by rodi kratsy-tsagaropoulou on women and business leadership, which addresses issues such as promoting corporate social responsibility and women's participation in the workplace. it is worth noting that equality between women and men is one of the main principles of the european union. there are now clear differences in the employment of women, especially in senior positions. women, in the same roles as men, earn less, and looking at the employment statistics for management positions, there is a clear gender imbalance. while the data show that men dominate the top positions on company boards, women are increasingly bravely seeking prestigious, well-paid positions. i am personally in favour of any action to remove these barriers and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i have improved the resolution on women and business management. as a member of the committee on women and equalities, i would like to draw your attention to two issues in particular: 1. significant disparities in the participation of women and men in decision-making bodies. 89% of the members of management and supervisory boards in europe are men. in poland, according to eurostat research, in the third quarter of 2010, women accounted for only 37% of all managers and senior officials in our country. the proportion of women on boards of listed companies and supervisory boards is even lower (around 12% in 2009). in view of these sad statistics, i call on companies and member states (in line with paragraph 1 of the resolution) to take voluntary and rapid action to increase the participation of women at the highest levels. otherwise, i support the commission's proposal to propose eu legislation on this matter. 2. the gender pay gap in management. in poland, according to the national wage survey, men's average pay was over 33% higher than women's. in management positions, the difference was about 25%. the resolution voted on today calls on the member states to take urgent action on this matter. i hope that the polish presidency, during which we are adopting this report, will work towards a solution to this extremely important issue.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the economic crisis of recent years continues to reduce the economic potential of many countries in the union. the most striking manifestation of the current crisis is the situation with the greek debt crisis. although poland's membership of the community has contributed to maintaining positive economic growth in the country, the turmoil in the foreign exchange credit market is a particular cause for concern among polish citizens. the report's analysis of the causes of the sovereign debt crisis is correct, but some recommendations are unacceptable. in particular, the proposal to strengthen political and economic integration, with a view to strengthening the union's legitimacy and control. the resulting increase in the union budget to between 5% and 10% of the union's gdp, while reducing national budgets, is also not a solution. the requirement to submit annual reports assessing the social and environmental responsibility of businesses seems to be unrealised. i voted to reject the report.
in writing. - the debate on how to overcome the current economic crisis coincides with the start of the polish presidency of the council of the eu. in the light of today's debate in parliament on these issues, i find that the main point of the opinion of the rapporteur responsible for the report on the ways out of the economic crisis, pervenche berès of my socialist and democratic group, is in line with what the polish authorities are saying in the context of the newly inaugurated presidency. i mean the proposition that a more integrated, not a more fragmented european union is the answer to the economic crisis. this statement should, in my view, also be the basis for eu anti-crisis action. i would also like to point out that the very reasonable and controversial demand of our political group to increase the eu budget to 5-10% of gdp may in future be more widely accepted when the conference on the future financial framework, which poland is planning to hold, involves both national parliaments and the european parliament. i think it is a very fortunate coincidence that the demands of the socialist and democratic group, as expressed in the pervenche berès report, have been positively received by the government of the country which currently holds the presidency of the union, despite the fact that its government comes from a different political family. i therefore also hope that the demands contained in this report will be implemented during the polish presidency.
in writing. − the economic crisis that has disrupted the european union in recent years has affected not only the financial sphere but also the social sphere. reduced employment, falling incomes and rising prices are problems for every european. the threat to the capital stability of many enterprises has led to the liquidation of many plants and companies, and public debts in some countries have been and continue to be the cause of strikes and demonstrations. that is why the work of the special parliamentary crisis committee is so important. the development of austerity programmes, the development of agreements and the initiation of cooperation with national parliaments, and the coordination of crisis management mechanisms are the commission's main achievements. any action to counter the effects of the crisis to rebalance the market, reduce unemployment and ensure sustainable development is absolutely worth supporting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financial, economic and social crisis: recommendations on measures and initiatives to be taken. as the author of the opinion on european cooperation in vocational education and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy, i draw attention to the recommendations on education strategies contained in the report. in line with the europe 2020 goals and flagship initiatives, member states need to improve the correlation between vocational training and labour market needs, for example by increasing the supply of education and vocational guidance and promoting traineeships and apprenticeships for women. it is also important to develop new training proposals, including in science, mathematics and technology, to increase the employment opportunities of women in technical and scientific positions, in non-traditional occupations, in low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high-tech sectors. i also support the motion for a resolution on the adoption of an eu traineeship programme modelled on erasmus, with full involvement of the private sector. such a programme should, inter alia, ensure that europeans, including disadvantaged groups, have access to training in order to promote lifelong learning.
we must certainly do everything we can to preserve and develop democracy in the middle east, but democracy is not just about electoral procedures. we need real respect for the law, including the internationally recognized rights of minorities, including the rights of religious minorities. in the reality of egypt and iraq, the arrival of democracy is not the same as respecting the religious freedom of the christian communities that have lived there for hundreds of years. copts in egypt today feel threatened by violence from radical islamists and legal discrimination, which is embodied in the sharia as the source of law in the egyptian constitution. the assyrian christians in iraq have been driven out of the country for years in the name of religious purges on very similar grounds. we can't keep quiet about this. it's not about making trouble for democracy in the middle east, to disrupt it. the point is to create the foundations of a truly democratic order. i ask you never to forget the plight of the christians in those countries. democracy cannot mean more discrimination for them.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i wanted to ask my honourable predecessor whether he is aware that israel is the only democracy in this part of the world, that in israel the arab citizens freely elect their representatives to the knesset, who are the representatives who criticize the state in whose parliament they sit, and nothing happens because of this. moreover, i have a question for my honourable predecessor, who has been so much in favour of palestinian statehood, whether he is aware of the activities of the organizations which europe considers to be terrorist organizations, which are now members of the governing coalition in palestine.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. cnn aired shocking amateur footage this week of a syrian soldier opening fire on a demonstration camera. according to local aid agencies, nearly 1,500 people were killed in the 16-week conflict. last week, 28 people were killed in the biggest demonstration in hama since march. particularly disturbing are reports that the city's governor was dismissed by the authorities in an attempt to prevent bloodshed. it is also a violation of fundamental rights to block the escape of refugees to turkey. the international community cannot stand by and watch the syrian regime's blatant violations of human rights. efforts should therefore be stepped up to secure the adoption of a un resolution condemning bashar al-assad's actions. he is losing his legitimacy to exercise power, and that's why i agree with british foreign secretary william hague that the syrian leader must reform or step down. we should consider increasing pressure by extending economic sanctions, as well as framing the charges in the context of human rights violations. help is also needed for the opposition and refugees. the extraordinary determination of the syrian people in the fight against the regime deserves full recognition and support and is a positive sign for the resolution of future conflicts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there's something incredibly optimistic about what we've seen this year, and that's what i want to talk about first. because if we had asked the experts from the north african world earlier this year, they would have told us that dictators in that part of the world can sleep well. on paper, everything looked very solid: the army, the security services, full control. and here's a young man who just set himself on fire in protest against evil, started a wave that proved that those who said that the arab world, that our muslim brothers were not growing up to be democratic, that they didn't deserve democracy, were wrong. we are witnessing something incredible today. our muslim brothers are dying for democracy, giving their lives to be free. and that's why i think it's our particular moral duty to help these people. i do not join the criticisms of the high representative, because i believe that the european union, in the complex conditions in which it operates, has done a lot, although it can always be said that more can be done. the european union has done much to show our brothers in that area that the european union is supporting them.
the events of the arab spring, which mrs de keyser has described well, and the provisions of the treaty of lisbon on the promotion and support of democracy and human rights and the rule of law in the world, have led to a re-examination of the union's policy on supporting democratic processes in the world. economic stability is not enough, social stability of states is not enough, because the priority is, and should be, respect for human rights and democratic rules. the report by mrs de keyser is a very good approach to supporting democratic processes, not only when they are being initiated or completed, but also wherever we are dealing with, for example, the underground activities of opposition movements. you can see it in belarus, you can see it in syria, but you can also see it in cuba. if it weren't for the sakharov prize, we probably wouldn't have much knowledge of what's going on in these many countries. we're dealing with a lot of social discontent. economic reasons are important, but above all, the lack of democracy is what is causing events like the one in north africa. i am pleased that the report includes a provision supporting the creation of a european democracy fund, a polish initiative that enriches the union's instruments for long-term support for democratic processes. if this fund had existed a few years ago, there would probably not have been such difficulties in supporting these processes in, say, syria or egypt. this proposal complements and does not compete with existing instruments. we want this instrument to be established by convention. the european parliament seems to be heavily involved in both the monitoring of the fund's activities and its budgetary control. i strongly urge you to support amendment no. 11, which relates to this fund project. madam chairman! the report does draw some paradoxes. it calls for the eu to take action individually, tailoring it to each country, but also for the european policy to be free of double standards. and i'm all for that, too.
madam president! i want to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. i have read very carefully the report drawn up by mrs véronique de keyser. this is indeed a very interesting and very good report. but it also shows that we are dealing with positive trends, but also with problems that we must all share in this room. on the positive side, i think the most important thing is that it is clear to the naked eye that the union has been paying much more attention in recent months to the spread of democratic values outside the union. the eu is rebuilding its neighbourhood policy. but when it comes to instruments, we can't agree that they're good or perfect. that is why i wanted to support very strongly and urge support for poland's initiative to establish a fund for democracy. it's a good idea and it should be supported.
i was wondering if you were aware that russia is the largest supplier of weapons in the conflict zone, because on the one hand it sells, on the other hand it lends, it gives, it has bases? i wanted to ask what is it about - because i don't know - that prime minister putin is so committed to peace in the caucasus, especially in the south caucasus, and especially in nagorno karabakh?
as parliament leaves for the summer break, i would like to be absolutely certain that the situation in nagorno-karabakh will not be the same as that experienced in georgia in the summer of 2008. however, the tense situation and developments in the region raise fears. it is therefore regrettable that the decision was taken not to table a european parliament resolution on the situation in nagorno-karabakh. the european union has not been sufficiently active in the peaceful settlement of this conflict, although we have the necessary expertise, resources and experience. the estonian lady's presence in this region might improve the situation. russia has a significant role in this region. he has also been involved in the illegal 'extradition' of political prisoners and the 'crimes against humanity' committed by the 'government of the people's republic of china'. remarkably, just three days after the last presidential meeting in kazan on june 24, president medvedev signed a law extending russia's military presence in the region until 2044. it is also noteworthy that arms are being supplied to the other side of the conflict to azerbaijan and to other countries in the vicinity. we must talk about the presence of professional and truly international peacekeeping forces in the region, not just by individual minsk group countries but also by other international forces. i would like to emphasise that armenia must withdraw its military forces from the occupied territories and their surroundings. at the same time, the return of refugees and former residents of occupied territories to their homes must be ensured. this process should be monitored internationally. a referendum on the region's legal status may then be held.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. before i get to the heart of the matter, i would like to say that i have heard a number of statements from my esteemed colleagues expressing expectations of the polish presidency in relation to this conflict. however, i would like to remind you that the presidency can only support the high representative because the treaty of lisbon delegates all foreign policy competences to the high representative. the high representative knows minister sikorski, i know him very well and i can say that i am 100% confident that the minister will support your actions. i wanted to say that we are obviously concerned about the situation in nagorno-karabakh, but there are places close to this region where there is not only concern, but also fear. i'm thinking about georgia here. as the european parliament's rapporteur on georgia, i recently visited the country and spoke with politicians, the government, the foreign minister, the head of parliament, the president and the opposition. they all said they were absolutely terrified of what could happen in nagorno karabakh. it is difficult to imagine what consequences this might have for the situation in georgia, especially in terms of third party interests. i would once again appeal to the high representative that we as the union take this issue seriously in talks with armenia, azerbaijan and russia.
the south caucasus is a place where refugees can be found on every corner. it's true, they're in azerbaijan from nagorno-karabakh, they're in georgia from abkhazia, or, as recently, from south ossetia. but i've seen them in armenia, too. they are not from nagorno karabakh, but from baku, they even have their own street, a "corner" called baku. the problem is complex, and i think we have to remember that if we become a party to this conflict, if we become too much of one of these parties, then we will not be able to play a positive role in the caucasus. that's the first thing. secondly, all these conflicts and ethnic cleansings, because they are the first to be remembered, have only one common denominator: soviet imperialism. and that's something you have to remember. i believe in the minsk group's plan, but i don't believe in the minsk group's practice as it is. russia must be a partner in the settlement of this conflict because it has interests there, but we as europe cannot entrust russia with the negotiation of this issue because this will lead to an increase in russia's role rather than to the settlement of this conflict. your highness! this is a very important issue from the point of view of your tasks this year.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much again for this agenda item. i think it is important that we take time to reflect on the upcoming russian elections. may i also thank parliament for the resolutions on russia. your resolution of 9 june on the opening day of our most recent eu-russia summit had real impact. of course, russia is a partner with whom i work on a large number of foreign policy issues, but today i want to just focus with you on the upcoming elections. i think a number of decisions have been taken recently in moscow which give us some ideas as to what we can expect in december for the duma elections, and in march 2012 for the presidential poll. russia is already in pre-election mode, with new party alliances and increasing debate. there are some encouraging signs: president medvedev is calling for economic and political modernisation, and finance minister kudrin insists on free and fair elections. at the same time, political pluralism still faces obstacles. as honourable members will be aware, on 22 june, the russian ministry of justice refused to register the new liberal opposition people’s freedom party (parnas). parliament here is of course fully aware of this case; one of the party’s leaders, mr kasyanov, has spoken here several times, and i met briefly with him today in strasbourg. the main reason given for the refusal to register this party was that a few minors, young people and people who were dead had been found among the party’s 46 000 members. another of the party’s leaders, mr ryzhkov, has rejected these claims as false or groundless. but, even if you exclude those people, he would say that the party would still have the required 45 000 members. honourable members know that the earlier political party, the republican party of russia, met a similar fate in 2007, when authorities ordered its dissolution. on 12 april 2011 this year, the european court of human rights in strasbourg ruled that this dissolution was in violation of article 11 of the european convention on human rights. as far as i am aware, the authorities have not yet acted upon this judgment. parnas seems to have been denied registration on the basis of this very same and unchanged law. the court also noted that minimum party membership requirements in russia are the highest in europe. the court was not persuaded that these requirements are necessary, and stressed that small minority groups must also have an opportunity to participate in elections. it said that frequently-changing membership requirements, linked with regular checks, had imposed a disproportionate burden on political parties in russia. i think that ruling should give the russian leadership pause for thought. at the eu-russia summit, we again emphasised the need for political pluralism. president medvedev acknowledges that a focus on too much stability results in stagnation. two weeks ago, he introduced a bill which would lower the threshold for parties to enter the duma from the current 7% to 5% – but, of course, this only applies to the duma elections in 2016. we know that the purpose of democratic elections is to give voters a real choice, and a sense that their vote matters for the outcome. our main contribution is to offer election observation; consultations between russia and osce/odihr are ongoing. russia seems keen to cooperate, and to avoid a repeat of the situation we saw in 2007, when it did not admit any long-term observers. long-term observation is important, in particular to be able to evaluate whether there is fair access to television and other media during the campaign. we received encouraging signals at the summit, and i look forward to a request being sent from moscow to the osce. i am also sure that many honourable members would be interested in participating in this observation. let me close with a few remarks about other human rights and rule of law issues in russia. i believe our partnership for modernisation opens new opportunities for cooperation in this field, and i welcome the joint project with the council of europe on reforming the appeal system for civil and criminal court cases in russia. i also welcome the opening of new forms of dialogue with civil society, in particular the creation of an eu-russia civil society forum. likewise, i welcome president medvedev’s decision to examine the khodorkovsky-lebedev and magnitsky cases. the conclusions of the magnitsky case were presented yesterday, while those on the khodorkovsky and lebedev cases will take more time. let me restate that in their cases, the second verdict was disappointing. to conclude, russia remains an essential partner for the eu and a challenging one. i think there is an interesting debate going on within the country about the modernisation of society and economy, and changing attitudes and expectations will materialise and shape the new realities. the nine months ahead will be very important for russia’s future development. we believe the democratic process must come from within russia. we will continue to build our engagement, we will continue to build on our common interests and we will continue to stand firmly behind our values.
i would like to ask about the comparison that appeared in the final part of your speech, and about the fact that we cannot criticize russia because similar cases of human rights violations also occur in europe, for example in hungary. did i understand that correctly, or was it a translation error? i think they're two separate cases. i'm asking you to explain this.
on behalf of the ecr group. the december duma elections will show in which direction our largest continental neighbor will develop in the coming years. will it be a limited democracy or an increasingly authoritarian one? i'm afraid i'm not deluded. all the facts point to a slow drift towards the monopoly of the pro-kremlin party "united russia". what do i mean? the government's changes to the electoral law, which raise the voting threshold to 7%, the intensification of attacks and harassment against opposition political activists, the lack of pluralism in the media, and the refusal to register political parties, are among the most egregious examples. this clearly shows the path the kremlin has chosen. the intensification of these actions is linked to polls published by independent russian media that indicate a decline in support for the actions of the ruling party. what should we do about it? first of all, to seek the release of opposition activists and politicians. we must respond in solidarity to all human rights violations, with particular reference to attacks on the free press, and promote the development of free speech by inviting russian journalists to the european debate.
madam chairman, commissioner ashton, i have to tell you something. i thank you very much for raising the issue of human rights in your speech, and in particular the issue of magnitsky. i must inform the commissioner that exactly 90 minutes ago, here in a room 100 metres from the plenary, the delegation for relations with russia refused to vote on and adopt a statement on the magnitsky case and the desire to clarify as soon as possible the causes of his death and punish those responsible. it was a note from the bene committee asking for mr schulz's arrest, who spoke so beautifully and so truthfully about the problems with russian democracy. there are limits to hypocrisy. on the one hand we talk about how we want to help democracy in russia, and on the other hand we block the clarification of fundamental issues for this democracy, such as the death of magnitsky.
first of all, you didn't understand the blue card. it's about asking questions, not making statements. but i will tell you that four weeks ago, when you received the previous version of the magnitsky statement, you said that you did not want to comment on it and you decided that we should not vote on it because you did not want to sign it. so please don't try to justify your, in my opinion, hypocritical attitude today. i'm not going to change that wording, you might not like it.
in writing. before the upcoming elections to the duma, we are observing many very disturbing phenomena, such as the refusal to register the parnas party and the increase in the electoral threshold. this, along with the lack of freedom of speech and attacks on the media, which are already common in russia, is causing widespread concern. russia should change its policy towards the opposition and free press. in particular, i support the call for the lifting of the ban on the opposition leader boris nemtsov leaving the country. the russians should understand that respect for democratic standards is essential to improve russia's relations with the rest of the world. although russia is one of the european union's largest and most important partners and its international importance is growing, the european union should continue its efforts to change the situation in the country. i hope that the further action of the high representative will bring better results. in the long run, we should take concrete steps to mobilize russia to change its policy. i also hope that the observation mission for the upcoming elections will have a positive impact on the course of the elections.
in the european union, we talk a lot about freedom, democracy, human rights. we take pride in our achievements and in spreading these values. what is poverty, and what does it result from? the vast majority of these are unemployment or other causes beyond the reach of the people affected by poverty. how can we accept that in europe we have 40 million people living in poverty and another 40 million on the poverty line? is this not a restriction of human rights, of freedom? is that what democracy is? we are in a time of crisis, unemployment is rising, and what is the commission doing? it limits the funds for free food distribution to the poor. the current amounts of eur 500 million per year for this purpose should be maintained. i cannot agree with the view that the european court of justice ruling has annulled regulation 983 of 2008 as the legal basis of the programme. please note that this judgment annulled only article 2 of the judgment, which concerns the additional purchase of food on the market. therefore, that regulation remains in force and can provide the legal basis for the programme. in my opinion, there is no need to create a new programme, we just need to modify the existing one to increase the amount of food available to it. at the same time, in the european union, we've been spending a lot of money in recent years to reduce production. how is that possible? what's the point?
yesterday, when we were discussing the priorities of the polish presidency of the european union, we heard a lot about the fact that the eu countries are the happiest place on earth, which many people from outside europe are trying to get to. but in this happy place, there are also people, and quite a number of them, who are suffering poverty, who are in poverty and often cannot afford to buy food. there may be more and more of these people, because the food situation in the world is changing, we have more and more food shortages, food prices are rising, and more and more people will not be able to afford to buy it. that is why the food aid which the union has provided so far is a particularly important thing, one of the best things we are doing together here. and that should continue. eur 500 million per year is equivalent to a contribution of eur 1 per year per citizen of the union to this aid. legal issues shouldn't be an obstacle. they must be resolved as soon as possible and the conditions must be created so that this aid - at least at the current level - can continue, because there are really so many people who need it and expect it.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. fellow workers! we have a very difficult decision to make. first of all, we've created a great chain of support. first the european commission gives money, and then ngos deliver basic goods to the people who need it most. these staple products are cassava, rice, flour, sometimes canned, milk and butter. i don't understand how so many people in dire need today can be deprived of this basic help. i've met these people many times. they were very grateful. today, not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of the federation of polish food banks, the people who benefit from the aid, i call on the commission to withdraw from this bad, damaging decision. there's still time. the common agricultural policy is a multi-billion dollar policy. it's not worth throwing away such a wonderful program.
madam president, this is an ambitious proposal and one which we should support in principle. there are some elements in it which are not controversial, because we are all focusing only on the transnational list. i think we can all agree that streamlining the electoral procedure is not controversial. however, there are some proposals in it which have produced controversy, most notably the transnational list. i think that this is an experiment in transnational democracy. regardless of whether one is a true federalist or, more modestly, believes in creating a european public space, i think that we should support it. if we want the european political parties to be visible and citizens to take a well-informed choice – because decisions in this house are taken by political parties – and if we are really interested in how effectively our postulates are being realised, we should know what these parties do. if we want a european election campaign to be based on a truly european debate about european issues, i think that we should, in principle, support this proposal. there is one caveat. i support it if the transnational list is open, giving citizens a true choice and stimulating political parties to present the best candidates. here i am sometimes amazed when people from smaller countries say that it would actually benefit only big countries. this means that you have no faith in your parties to actually put forward good people. i will just give you one example. if the czechs were to put forward vaclav havel, i am absolutely certain that many people would want to vote for him – people who actually have similar ideas to mine. but if they were to put forward vaclav klaus, i am pretty sure that, maybe, many conservatives would want to vote for him as well. there are some problems. there are people who are not ready to embrace this idea, and it is true that having more meps at a time of financial austerity would send the wrong signals. but this is not andrew duff just being capricious. we are obliged by the treaty to take it up. we have to take the initiative: this is the only part of eu law where we have the initiative. it is too serious to be dropped, so let us talk about it a little more, because this proposal is really worthwhile.
madam president, we have all experienced, during campaigns for election to the european parliament, how locally concentrated the discussion is in our constituencies. discussions cover not only national issues, but often even local issues. we all experience, in our everyday activity in our constituencies, how weak or non-existent the perception is of our european parties and of our political families, of the differences between us and even of our main issues as parties. we all also know, madam commissioner, that participation in the elections – not only in european elections but also national and local elections – is falling in europe. it is a big problem and a big issue, but as a solution to that we cannot propose less europe, but more europe. we need to reinforce the discussion on european issues and on european political systems, and to involve our citizens in this, which is what the proposal by andrew duff is about. andrew duff is calling for real input to ensure more europe. strangely enough, listening yesterday to the speech by the polish prime minister, i had the impression that he, representing the council – i.e. the intergovernmental institution – is more community-oriented and often has more of a community spirit than this house, which should represent the community spirit in europe. let us think of this when we discuss the proposal by andrew duff, which i support very strongly and with full conviction.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report by mr kastler on the european year of older people. this week news agencies reported on the claim by some scientists that a man who will live to be 150 years old has already been born somewhere in the world. it shows how big the challenges are. it's not about breaking the longevity record. more importantly, the average age is increasing and the proportion of older people in the social structure is much higher than in the past. this in turn means that solidarity as one of the fundamental european values is also becoming increasingly important in the dimension of solidarity between generations. this is why it is fully justified to make active ageing a priority. paradoxically, it is also in the interest of young people to strengthen solidarity between generations. after all, today's youth are tomorrow's seniors.
democracy is the basic direction of development in the modern world. the european union has a huge role to play, particularly in the context of the current situation in the arab countries. i agree with the idea of promoting the building of civil societies in these countries and democracy based on the rule of law as a basis for relations with other countries. it is also important to continually raise the profile of the eastern partnership programme and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr. chairman, please! political pluralism is the foundation of democracy and modern society and a source of political legitimacy. the freedom and transparency of russian elections have been in serious doubt for years. since 2003, the russian democratic opposition has failed to get its representatives into parliament. the recent refusal to register the opposition national freedom party, the ninth such decision in recent times, raises a fundamental question about the state of russian democracy. in supporting the resolution, i call on the russian authorities to guarantee free and fair elections based on the standards set by the council of europe and the osce. limiting political competition cannot be the way to maintain power. i also call for an end to the politicisation of judicial decisions. the very draft law that allows courts to ignore the rulings of the european court of human rights is a clear violation of the convention on fundamental rights. the future of relations with brussels will depend on the strengthening of russian democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. - dear colleagues! the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. i personally think that we should promote the active participation of older people in civic life, speak out about volunteering, make it easier for older people to access new technologies and provide training in their use. at the same time, we must encourage member states, local authorities and ngos to support actions for older people. there is no doubt that the aim should be to combat their social exclusion, as the ageing population is one of the most important challenges facing the european union today. i would like to stress once again that the proposed european parliament and council initiative for the european year of older persons in 2012 is a great project and that is why i voted in favour of it. thank you.
in writing. - the debate on the demographic future of europe is one of the most important and serious debates in the european parliament. it concerns the elderly, the quality of life in old age and the future of each of us. this is a great challenge, and despite the dangers, it can bring many benefits to us europeans. the designation of 2012 as the european year of older persons is a very valuable initiative. we must be aware of all the consequences of the ageing of europe's population and do everything we can to counter the negative effects of this process. as for what we, as members of the european parliament, can bring to these activities, it is certainly the promotion of the european 'leonardo da vinci' and 'grundtvig' programmes. it is thanks to them that senior organisations are able to implement ever more ambitious plans and to encourage more senior citizens to take action. i would also like to add that i am personally and in collaboration with my local assistants, working with the universities of the third age, and our contacts are mutually beneficial. i therefore encourage similar actions to be taken so that 2012 is a key year for increasing the activity of older people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria, yemen and bahrain in the context of the situation in the arab countries and north africa. peaceful protesters in north africa and the middle east are demanding institutional, political, economic and social reforms. all this in order to create democratic states where corruption and nepotism are combated and human rights and respect for fundamental freedoms are promoted. they also want to eliminate the enormous social inequalities and create better economic and social conditions. in this resolution, parliament expresses its concern at the situation in these areas and calls for concrete steps to be taken to prevent further dramatic events. in particular, the european neighbourhood policy faces new challenges with regard to the southern neighbourhood. the european union and the member states themselves have decided to support the initiatives of governments that are genuinely committed to political and economic reform and to supporting civil society. at the same time, the european commission and the council of the european union must pursue a policy of 'more for more', which will reward real progress in democracy and human rights.
in writing. − in this resolution, parliament expressed its strong support for the creation of the european foundation for democracy, the flagship initiative of the polish presidency.
in writing. − the russian authorities' decision to refuse to register the national freedom party (parnas) in the upcoming december elections is worrying. the difficulties faced by political parties in russia in registering for elections are unacceptable in a country that aspires to become one of the union's most important strategic partners.
in writing. - the european parliament has today adopted a resolution on the schengen acquis. we oppose any attempt to limit one of the greatest achievements of european integration. the response to the migration challenges faced by some member states today is to build a common migration and asylum policy and secure the union's external borders, not to re-establish internal borders. however, safe external borders cannot in any event be the same as closed borders.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. ladies and gentlemen! the situation in south kivu is very difficult. there is a long-running conflict, resulting in daily acts of violence. since the beginning of this year, msf has only helped 500 victims of mass rape in the fiji region of south kivu. i agree with mrs de keyser that it is very frustrating that in the western democratic republic of congo there is a systematic increase in the number of mass rapes of civilians, and that we need to talk about this again. but we have to talk about it because sexual violence is unacceptable. this is something we can't keep quiet about. the local military is doing little to help with this situation. it's poorly trained, poorly equipped, and it's the soldiers themselves who are the rapists. so it's our duty to do more to help the victims. perhaps we should consider that instead of spending 7 million euros on election observation in the democratic republic of congo, we should spend it on helping victims and prosecuting sex offenders.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are few here, but we are here, and we are crying out for europe. this voice needs to be heard. the country we're talking about is one of the poorest in africa. on the one hand, there is no power, there is anarchy, power is on the street, and on the other hand, power is very strong because it is everything. sometimes a government official, a police officer or a military officer, can decide the lives and health of people. it's just awful. i wanted to say that the european parliament is once again dealing with this matter and is once again making a very dramatic appeal to the authorities of the democratic republic of congo to protect their own people. in conclusion, i would like to point out that - as mr kaczmarek said - we really do need to consider where the european taxpayer's money is going in this context.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the members for their interest and their sensitive approach. we all have again been appalled by perturbing news from kivu, where a group of armed criminals abused and raped a considerable number of women in a systematic manner. these criminals were apparently ex-mayi-mayi deserting the congolese armed forces after a transient and non-conclusive integration process. this is an outrageous crime, and we are all concerned. it is therefore important to clarify the facts and bring the suspects before a court. in this regard we have been informed that a prosecutor of the democratic republic of congo, supported by monusco, should now be in the field in order to collect legal evidence and to prepare a prosecution case. we demand that the drc authorities address this issue as a matter of urgency and to deliver justice. however, indignation is not enough: i can understand this, and so we must all ask what further action needs to be taken, including by the united nations security council and monusco. naturally, support for victims should be an immediate priority, and the eu is already committed to providing medical care and mitigating suffering. i can agree with you that victim support, especially healthcare, is one of the agreed priorities here, and i would like to inform you that the eu is at the forefront of these efforts through echo and development-funded health support actions. in addition, support for prevention, awareness-raising initiatives and political pressure is also part of the eu approach. these efforts will continue. sexual violence and rape continue to be pervasive in the drc, with more than 15 000 reported cases in 2009, according to the united nations: 15 000 rapes. it is therefore important to address the root causes of this serious issue and to ensure that congolese justice will not remain confined to episodic reaction. the root causes are known: they lie within the endless conflicts in the eastern territory of the republic of congo and the absence of the rule of law in a context where the state authority remains to be concretised. importantly, the prevalence of sexual violence both reflects and perpetuates the subordinate status of most women throughout the country. it also has a very negative impact on a lot of children being born, as ms de keyser pointed out. to improve this situation, it is important to continue military and non-military action against the rebels. in this regard, it is important to bear in mind that this type of conflict – in many cases involving groups without a real political agenda, or criminals from neighbouring countries – is difficult to address in the short term. however, it is more and more urgent that decisive steps are taken in reforming the security sector. the persistent poor condition of defence, the police and justice in the congo greatly worsens the situation. the european union therefore urges the congolese authorities to give renewed priority to this challenge. failure to make substantial progress in the defence, police and justice sectors will jeopardise the sustainability of achievements made in the economic, social and political areas. in this period of elections, tackling these issues should undoubtedly be an agenda shared by all congolese democratic forces, as the future of the whole country is at stake. the eu is already providing support to the security sector reform through common security and defence policy missions and the european commission, as well as bilateral support from member states. these actions pay particular attention to the need to combat sexual violence; for example, eupol has deployed a specific team of experts on sexual violence in goma (a city in north kivu). support to victims also needs to be continued. the eu is ready to do more if common ground for progress is found with member states and the republic of congo authorities. however, this is an area where the ultimate responsibility will always lie with the drc itself and where the congolese government needs to show true leadership and determination.
in writing. since independence, the democratic republic of congo has been the scene of incessant fighting, resulting in millions of deaths and forced displacement. these conflicts have led the country to a humanitarian disaster, making the guarantee of basic human rights a fiction. the most affected are ordinary citizens who live in constant fear for their lives and the lives of their families, living on the edge of poverty, without work, without schooling. the most critical situation is in the province of kivu. despite the 'act of commitment' signed on 23 january 2008, in which armed groups operating in north kivu province pledged to end atrocities, killings, rapes, torture of civilians and recruitment of child soldiers continue to occur on a daily basis. but the most common crime committed by all sides in the conflict is the mass rape of women. they are in a tragic situation. without psychological support, faced with a dire state of health care, they are often left alone, helpless, intimidated, often rejected by their husbands, who consider them disgraced. in the face of such a huge human tragedy, the authorities of the democratic republic of congo have been lax, disregarding the problem, leaving congolese women without help and the perpetrators unpunished. we must realize that the temporary stabilization of the democratic republic of congo is a facade behind which the world is witnessing unspeakable atrocities.
the author. - madam president! - what are you doing? the steady democratization of indonesian society is a source of great admiration, but it also raises expectations. the country's image is clouded by numerous cases of religious discrimination, which obscure the goals and achievements of its current chairmanship of asean. more than 15 percent of the population of the world's largest muslim country are religious minorities. it is therefore outrageous that indonesia has become the scene of bloody anti-christian repression. although civil society, religious leaders and moderate islamists strongly condemn attacks on religious minorities, we continue to witness events of death and destruction. reports of a lack of commitment and of the inability of the authorities and the police to address the violence are particularly worrying. the restrictive law, which allows for heavy sentences for blasphemy and heresy, and whose legitimacy is also criticized by muslim communities, becomes a convenient tool for discrimination and abuse. in the name of respect for human rights, i call on the indonesian authorities to take immediate action in a spirit of cooperation with the european union to guarantee the security and fundamental freedoms of its citizens.
the situation in the world's largest muslim country, where the authorities are unable to control the growing tide of radical islam, which aims to destroy christianity or limit its influence, is a very serious one. of course, we can say that this fits into the larger pattern of persecution of christians, for every few minutes a christian is killed in the world. but let's also be clear that it's not just a christian minority that is persecuted in indonesia. in fact, in the history of east timor and indonesia-occupied east timor, we have witnessed the slaughter of christians who fought for their country's independence. but this is a different situation. the european parliament should certainly react very strongly to this, because unfortunately inaction on the part of europe is a sin of omission, in theological terms.
in light of the tragic news from indonesia, i would like to express my deep concern about this situation. citizens of this country cannot feel safe in their own country despite the rights and freedoms that are theoretically guaranteed to them. attacks and persecution of religious and other minorities are not incidental but rampant. yet, in 2006, indonesia ratified the international covenant on civil and political rights, which guarantees basic civil and political rights, including protection for ethnic, religious, and linguistic minorities. the indonesian constitution, in chapter 29, also guarantees freedom of religion to its citizens. the public in europe is shocked and concerned by the aggression and discrimination against religious minorities, mainly christians but also others. a firm response from the public authorities to the actions of extremist groups terrorising religious minorities is needed and we, as the european union, should demand such action.
madam president! i join the call of my predecessors to express concern for the plight of minority groups in indonesia who experience violence and discrimination on the grounds of their religious or cultural affiliation. indonesia is a country with a long tradition of pluralism and civil society, which has previously set an example of high standards for many countries in the region and beyond. indonesia's ratification of the basic human rights treaties and its election as a member of the un human rights council are achievements that are highly appreciated in europe and the world. it is therefore surprising to me that indonesia, being a modern and progressive country, does not notice and does not respond to the recurring incidents of violence against religious minorities such as ahmadis, christians, buddhists and baha'is, who should be guaranteed freedom of expression and religion. i believe that the lack of respect for freedom of conscience in indonesia should be strongly opposed by the entire international community, and especially the european union.
the author. the circumstances in which the indian court found the suspect davinder pal singh guilty of his crimes are not debatable as we recognize that india is a democratic country which has granted the accused the right to a fair trial. the issue at stake is whether to sentence him to death, which has long been a subject of controversy and debate among countries around the world. the european union countries have abolished the death penalty, considering it to be contrary to the values of universal human rights and dignity. the union also continues to work towards the universal abolition of the death penalty in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the united nations general assembly in december 2007, 2008 and 2010, which explicitly call on all states that continue to use the death penalty to take steps to abolish it. in the case of the convicted man davinder pala singh, we europeans can only try to appeal to india, a sovereign and democratic country and an important strategic partner of the union, to refrain from executing this convict and others in the future.
on behalf of the ppe group. less than a month ago, india submitted its candidacy for the un human rights council. the country has therefore expressed its willingness to respect the standards in the field of promotion and protection of human rights. unfortunately, the practices of indian courts do not meet un standards. despite a seven-year moratorium on the death penalty and no executions since 2004, the courts continue to hand down death sentences. the vast majority of these sentences, according to amnesty international, were for people who were unable to secure adequate representation and defence during trials. that's why i'm appealing for the right to a fair trial. in the current situation in india, the death penalty should be replaced by life imprisonment. the authorities and judicial bodies should implement the relevant reforms as soon as possible. human rights are not a luxury, but a universal good, whether one lives in india or elsewhere in the world.
madam president, frankly speaking, i was convinced that we in this house all agreed that the death penalty is the ultimate denial of human rights. i am most astonished by some of our colleagues since, in my mind, the death penalty must be opposed in all cases without exception, regardless of the nature of the crime, the characteristics of the offender or the method used by the state to kill the prisoner. that is the standard for which i am struggling, as, i hope, are many of us. as a member of the european parliament, and also on behalf of amnesty international poland, together with many others here i call once again upon the government of india not to carry out the execution of davinder pal singh. he should immediately be retried in proceedings that are in compliance with international standards on fair trials, without recourse to the death penalty.
of course, we can talk about india, a country that has not carried out the death penalty for seven years. we can also talk about the death penalty as such and get applause. but maybe we should just hit our own chest. consider the responsibility of a member state of the european union that extradits a refugee to a place of probable or certain death. and i think maybe it's unpopular to talk about it, but maybe we should do a european conscience check. is that the right thing to do?
madam president, of course we listen carefully to our electorate and are in constant dialogue with them, but we also help to find the honest and proper way. we represent here the highest values and ‘thou shalt not kill’. (applause)
member of the commission. − madam president, we all share the deep concern of the european parliament about the possibility that india may soon break its de facto moratorium, in place since 2004, on the application of the death penalty in the cases of davinder pal singh bhullar, and mahendra nath das. vice-president/high representative ashton has been in regular correspondence with a number of members of the european parliament regarding the death penalty in india, and she is well aware of the circumstances surrounding this case, which has been discussed with the indian authorities in the past in the context of the death penalty issue. the vice-president/high representative wrote to india’s home minister chidambaram on 1 june, immediately after president patil rejected the mercy petitions of mr bhullar and mr das. in that letter, she made a humanitarian appeal on their behalf, as well as regarding mr surinder kohli, who has also appealed for mercy to the president after his death warrant was issued in early may. she urged minister chidambaram to commute their sentences to life imprisonment. the eu is opposed to the death penalty under all circumstances, regardless of the crimes committed. this is absolutely clear. the eu’s view is that capital punishment does not serve as an effective deterrent to criminal behaviour, whereas its abolition contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights. the vice-president/high representative pleaded for india to join the global moratorium that the eu aims to establish, in line with the global trend towards the abolition of the death penalty. at present, last minute appeals on health grounds are being considered by the courts, in both cases. we hope that the strong domestic and international pressure currently being exerted on the indian authorities will result in the executions not taking place, and in the moratorium being preserved. we stand ready to consider further urgent action in case the executions become imminent, and will continue to keep the european parliament and its members informed of further developments. i thank you all for your interest and for your support in this common cause.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 7 july 2011.
fellow workers! ladies and gentlemen! welcome to the rest of the world after the holiday break. i hope we had a rest, although this holiday was different from the last. we have been following the developments in the eu and the world during the holiday break. they were important to us, even during the holidays. i was in constant contact with the polish presidency on measures to deal with the economic crisis. we discussed the situation and the response. on 29 august, as you know, a special econ meeting was held with commissioner rehn, president trichet, prime minister juncker and minister rostowski. in two days' time, on wednesday, we will be discussing the commission's crisis response report, which will be presented by president barroso, and at the end of september, at the next session, the president of the eurogroup, prime minister juncker, will be in parliament. the last few weeks have also brought us closer to a successful end to the fighting in libya. we can say with certainty that from the very beginning of events the european parliament has been on the right side. our unequivocal call for the protection of the civilian population, as expressed in the resolution adopted in march, has been fulfilled. we must now do everything we can to ensure that the european union effectively helps the libyans to rebuild their country and put it on the path to democracy. i would also like to remind you that there is a discussion on this subject in the session of parliament, during which we will be able to develop this subject.
that will be the decision of the conference of presidents. thank you for bringing this to our attention. as regards the first point you raised, it is my understanding that prime minister berlusconi is not coming to the european parliament on an official visit. i have no information about the official visit of prime minister berlusconi to the european parliament. i can assure you of that in all seriousness. ladies and gentlemen! i just wanted to get to the next piece of information. tomorrow, we will welcome the president of the council of the european union, mr bronisław komorowski, who will address the plenary session at 12 noon. september 15 is the international day of democracy, established by the un general assembly. if democracy is not to be threatened, it must be constantly protected, nurtured and promoted in the world. this is one of the main objectives of the european parliament, the most democratic of the eu institutions. i will read the following information in english. i strongly condemn the violence organized on 2 july against our colleague, sajjad karim mep, in the united kingdom. his private house was attacked by around 30 protesters from an extremist organization. they entered his property carrying anti-islamic placards, while shouting at him and filming his house. mr karim was at home with his wife and children when this happened. we must at all times be very clear and always strongly condemn such incidents, especially when they are hate crimes. such threats to the freedom of speech of individual members of parliament are unacceptable. mr karim has been given a mandate in a democratic election by british citizens. any attack on him and on his family is an attack on democracy and against his electorate. all necessary steps should be taken in order to protect mr karim in exercising his duties and enable him to enjoy freedom of speech and freedom of expression without being threatened, and to do his political work as a democratically elected representative. having expressed my support for our colleague in a letter i wrote to prime minister cameron, today i publicly reaffirm my full support for you, mr karim, and for all victims of discrimination. this parliament stands beside you in defence of our common values. (applause) thank you very much. i met our colleague mr karim personally a few weeks ago, before the holidays.
i'll explain the matter to you in detail. in reply to the question put by mr rinaldi a moment ago, i have not received any request or request for an official visit by mr berlusconi to the european parliament. it's not out of the question that if the prime minister is in parliament tomorrow, if he is, there might be a couple of minutes of courtship. i can't rule that out, but there's no request for a meeting, an official meeting, there's no meeting. i'm telling you this very clearly. at the same time, i wanted to say that tomorrow we will receive the president of the republic of poland. i'm busy this afternoon receiving our guest and i don't have the opportunity at this moment to include in the program any longer visit of the italian prime minister. that's the current situation. i'd like to ask you to end this discussion. i've told you everything i know about this. i'm asking you to end this discussion. i take it that's the end of the discussion.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday, 7 september 2011. the following changes are proposed: [thursday] is the day: the group of the european people's party has tabled a motion for a resolution on the situation in libya, which is on the agenda for the second part-session in september, to be put to the vote at the current part-session. the point is to move the vote from the next session to the current one. i remind you that the debate is on wednesday. i would ask that someone from the epp group make a wider presentation of this proposal.
i would like to ask one of the members to support this motion. who would like to support this motion?
the first item on the agenda is the statement by the president on the 10th anniversary of september 11, 2001. ten years ago, september 11th shook the world. ruthless terrorists took the lives of nearly 3,000 innocent people - mothers, fathers, wives, husbands, and children - who died in the burning towers of the world trade center, the pentagon, and hijacked planes. americans died, europeans died. as we said then, we were all americans. innocent people from over 70 countries have been killed. those who attacked then did not win. the democratic world has not been intimidated. that day marked the beginning of a new era in the fight against global terrorism, which has reached our cities and our homes. new york, and then madrid, london and bali became targets in this new war. the war on terror is still going on. the number of failed attacks is a sign that we are slowly but surely winning it. but we will only succeed if we can change the minds of those who despise even their own lives as much as the lives of their victims. not just europeans, but the entire community of the free world has the right to live and build its future free from fear. let us not allow terrorism to become the new totalitarianism of the 21st century! it is our duty as politicians to leave europe and the world in peace and security for future generations. those whose faith commands them to kill those who think differently have no place in the societies of the civilized world. we also point out that today the liberation movements in north africa, in the middle east are based on the same fundamental rights and freedoms that we are talking about here in europe. in this respect, the last ten years have seen a great change, and this is a common success for us europeans and for all those who in many countries of the world today are fighting for freedom under the same values. today the european parliament joins in the american people in mourning and remembering, especially today, the hundreds of firefighters and police officers who died helping the victims of the bombings. i'll pay tribute to their memory. fellow workers! i wanted us to stand and observe a moment of silence for the victims of terrorism around the world. (the speakers stood and observed a minute of silence.)
the next item is the commission statement on the ongoing negotiations in ad-daws.
mr. chairman, please! the raw materials policy due to the uneven distribution of resources in the world is prone to monopolisation. this may involve unjustified economic or political demands. the sovereign management and efficient exploitation of the union's raw material resources by the member states is therefore necessary. the extraction of primary raw materials requires energy: in other words, the energy equivalent of the raw materials can be determined as one of the measures of the efficiency of their use. fiscal incentives for raw material production should be the domain of local authorities, responsible for water, land and geological structures. their efficient use allows for the full application of the principle of subsidiarity and a better use of public funds. the union's strategic partnership policy with the russian federation is becoming an important element in improving the balance of not only energy resources. the secondary raw material sourcing through recycling and material substitution is a large reserve which requires a rational investment in research and innovation. the development trend of the union materials engineering is a wider substitution of energy-intensive raw materials and materials by those that meet the criteria of use with lower energy consumption. examples include the use of wooden structures in individual buildings and the use of high-quality ceramics with high resistance to fracture to replace metals in machine construction. an ambitious energy and climate policy cannot be achieved without access to raw materials for materials with special physical and chemical properties, such as rare earths for super magnets or copper, which is a good conductor of heat and electricity.
mr. chairman, please! i thank our commissioner tajani and the rapporteur who have devoted a great deal of time to this really excellent report. today we are dealing with a very important issue: the resources that europe and the world need. we are talking about an effective strategy that will set new directions for both consumption and the sustainable use of our raw materials. natural resources are now the basis of all economies, both global and european, and they affect the quality of our lives. that is why we must ensure that the model of consumption and production that we have today is also of quality for future generations, so that we do not just use and give little to our successors. the high consumption of raw materials also blocks european economies as competitive, as low-carbon and as modern. that's why it's so important to deal with waste, which in large quantities contains very valuable raw materials. the transition to a green economy will require significant investment, but it will also require changes at the socio-economic level. integrated action is also needed in the fields of development of modern technologies, energy, industry and environmental protection. policies and strategies must be geared to reducing emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere in the near future. so it's important that we develop a strategy that is a legacy that we inherited from our fathers and that we pass on to our next generation.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to a matter somewhat similar to what my colleague tavares was talking about. in kazakhstan, the oil workers have been on strike for many months. they are on hunger strike, their demonstrations are broken up, strikers are arrested, their families are put under pressure. the union's lawyer natalia sokolova was arrested and sentenced to six years in prison. akzhanat aminov was also sentenced. but worse things are happening there: people are being killed because of the trade union movement. he was killed by zhaksylyk turbaev. zhansaule karabalaeva, 18, daughter of a well-known trade union activist, was also killed. without interfering in economic matters, i think that all the institutions of the european union should be guided by human rights in their dealings with the kazakh state. it should be the basis of our decisions and our support for this country.
i am sorry to say that there are clear cases of violations of the fundamental rights of citizens enshrined in the lisbon treaty, and in particular of the rights of national minorities, in the european union. the lithuanian state is in breach of eu standards in this area. lithuania has had no law regulating minority rights for almost two years. there is also no institution to which minorities can appeal when they are discriminated against. the administrative removal of bilingual signs with the names of towns and streets in areas where the minority is a clear majority, this is the case with poles, and the imposition of penalties on these people is an obvious example of this. in recent days, a new education law has come into force, which will lead to the closure of almost half of polish schools. how long will the union tolerate this?
in writing. the oil rig disaster in the gulf of mexico was a terrible memory. it turns out that the great ecological risks on the shelves are rising disproportionately as the difficulty of extracting hydrocarbons from wells in the deeper seas increases. this requires new solutions to better monitor drilling conditions to ensure that uncontrolled oil spills at the bottom of the sea are immediately cut off when pressure is increased. drilling companies must obtain a license from the countries in which they operate. the technical possibilities of 'cutting off' in the event of a sudden pressure jump in the well and full environmental and weather monitoring of the platform operation must be presented at each time. fire safety is necessary, as well as technical and financial security in the event of an emergency. the european union should support scientific research that will enable innovative technical solutions to improve the reliability of offshore drilling platforms.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fellow workers! i know from experience what it's like to be a female entrepreneur, because i ran my own business before i got into politics. i therefore vote with great enthusiasm in favour of the report on promoting female entrepreneurship. we need women in business, and in small and medium-sized enterprises especially. there are many young, well-educated women who are unfortunately unemployed in the labour market. it seems that for some of them, going into business for themselves would be a very good alternative. we need to encourage and help women to take the first steps. they need help in particular in the form of information on potential sources of finance for smes, grants, preferential loans, and the possibilities of using the european progress microfinance instrument. equally important is the training and career counselling for women who lack practical knowledge of how to navigate the legal system, how to find investors, how to create viable business plans. to naturally increase women's interest in self-employment, entrepreneurship should be taught from an early age in schools, which will not only increase the market share of women entrepreneurs but also help to combat the stereotypes that discriminate against women as unable to run their own businesses.
in writing. a group of women whom we call in official documents diplomatically approaching retirement age, or more media-specifically 50+, the polish writer olga tokarczuk once called invisible in society. i am therefore very pleased that next year the 'invisible' will become visible through the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the employment rate of women aged 55 and over in europe is currently too low for the union to achieve the 75% employment target for women and men that we set in the europe 2020 strategy. we're not going to do that if we don't increase the employment of women. in poland, the ministry of labour and social policy is implementing the 'solidarity of generations' programme. it is a government package to increase the employment of people over 50 in our country. it is shocking that in the labour market, women many years younger than men are often considered "old".
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have read the draft resolution on the situation of women of pre-retirement age and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. this is a very important issue, because an increasing number of women over 50 are facing the double problem of age and gender discrimination. increasingly, these are being found in isolated elderly populations. in the light of the facts and statistics presented by the rapporteur, the fact that 2012 has been designated as the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations should be all the more appreciated. in poland, too, measures are being taken to improve the qualifications of women and enable them to start an active life in old age. in many cities, training is provided for mature women, including computer training, accounting training, and career counselling. given that the proportion of people aged over 65 will increase from 17,4% in 2010 to 30% in 2060, such efforts need to be further intensified, thus enabling every woman to improve her skills and lead an active lifestyle.
in writing. in line with the europe 2020 approach, tackling poverty, discrimination and ageing societies is one of the most important social objectives, while avoiding or reducing intergenerational tensions. this is why it is so important to introduce concrete, long-term solutions in the field of the labour market and the pension system. in many eu countries, this will involve considerable change. the widespread discrimination on grounds of age and sex has meant that only one in three women of pre-retirement age can count on working, often part-time and for a lower salary. often, their good health, willingness and especially their qualifications and skills would allow them to work full-time for many years to come. the rapporteur rightly draws attention to the need for continuing training and the creation of opportunities to acquire new skills in order to remain in the labour market. action is needed to promote flexible forms of employment, which will enable women to reconcile their professional and personal lives. the biggest challenge is to change the attitude of employers towards older people and to end the compulsory retirement age. and let's remember that older people are the most valued, and as research shows, the most loyal employees. especially in the face of the problems of paying benefits guaranteed to citizens in many eu countries, we should see the potential of the 50+ generation.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. she has presented a very comprehensive report on something which i believe could be a wonderful alternative to court cases. access to justice is a cornerstone of the european area of justice, but mediation offers an important alternative to going to court in a cross-border dispute, as well as helping us reach to amicable settlements. as the rapporteur so rightly says, it saves time and money and also spares the parties involved in family cases the additional trauma of going to court. ms mccarthy’s report provides a political assessment of the way in which some member states have implemented the provisions of the directive. i agree with the rapporteur that we have to aim for a strict application of the provisions. i am pleased that, through this report, more member states will probably go for a smooth application. the rapporteur is correct that not all member states have put in place measures to transpose the directive. nine countries have not yet notified the national measures needed to fulfil the implementation of the directive. that is why, in july this year, the commission began infringement proceedings by sending letters of formal notice to these nine countries. they have two months to reply. we will follow up these nine cases and also follow up the way in which the other member states have already implemented the directive. we will check the conformity of national implementation. in 2012, i intend to present a communication on the way this directive has been implemented. it will focus on the effect of the directive with regard to the promotion of mediation. i absolutely agree with parliament that it is not enough merely to have a directive: you must make people aware that this possibility exists. i would like to add that nothing in the directive should prevent member states from applying similar provisions to internal mediation processes at home. it is not intended only for cross-border cases – where it is obligatory – but also for national purposes. i would like to thank ms mccarthy, her collaborators and teams and the other parliamentarians very much. the proposal which is on the table is a great help in pushing for mediation to become more popular and more widely taken up.
on behalf of the s&d group. cross-border mediation in legal disputes can only be effective if member states implement the relevant legislation at national level, as the european commission reiterated on 20 august this year, as the implementation of eu mediation rules has not yet been implemented everywhere, despite the deadline of 21 may this year. by promoting and enabling access to alternative justice options in citizens' daily lives, we are providing them with an effective and low-cost tool. the latest studies funded by the european commission estimate that the amount of time lost as a result of not using mediation in disputes is between 331 and 446 days across the union, with the associated additional legal costs per case reaching a ceiling of more than eur 13,5 thousand. in poland, mediation in civil matters was already introduced into the national legal system in july 2005 by the amendment of the code of civil procedure, which is consistent with the directive in terms of the main objectives, method and need to introduce a separate institution of mediation into procedural law. unfortunately, statistics from my country show that mediation in court cases represents only a small percentage of the total number of proceedings. in civil cases, it is estimated that on average only 20 to 40 mediations are carried out per year. the lack of adequate public education and promotion of this relatively new form of justice is hindering its development. most citizens are not aware of mediation and simply do not use it. therefore, in the interest of citizens, member states should intensively develop programmes promoting this form of dispute resolution. the benefits of mediation, both in terms of financial costs and in terms of reducing the burden on the justice system and saving time, are invaluable. finally, i would like to congratulate rapporteur mccarthy on a job well done.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i share the rapporteur's and the commission's view that frontex's activities should be based on the principle of solidarity, even if it is mandatory. i am thinking, among other things, of the organisation of european border guards and the transfer of technical resources from the various member states. it is also necessary to cooperate with europol or eurojust and other agencies, as well as to increase activities in countries with poorly functioning asylum systems. in summarising the agency's activities to date and planning its activities for the future, it is necessary to take into account its responsibility for the protection of the union's external borders, but also for the respect of fundamental rights. every effort should be made to enable the agency to fulfil its tasks properly.
i welcome the president of poland to the european parliament with all the more joy as this is his second visit to our parliament. his first visit came literally days after he was elected president in a free election. ladies and gentlemen! president komorowski is one of us, after all. he was a member of parliament for many years, was deputy marshal of the sejm, and then marshal of the sejm. it also shares the values that are most important to us in the european parliament: the freedom of every person, democracy, the building of a healthy economy for the people. these are the most important slogans and beliefs of president komorowski's life. at the time when poland was not yet an independent country, he published and printed underground newspapers. he was also interned during the state of war. immediately after the liberation of poland, he held important functions in the state administration. he was a deputy minister in several governments, and he was also the minister of national defence in the government i had the honour of leading. i should also add that the president of the comoros and i have a political and personal friendship. ladies and gentlemen! in an era of demographic threats to our continent, it is also worth recalling that president komorowski is resisting this and is the father of five children. (laughter) of course, as you can see, it doesn't interfere with his political career. everything can be connected. ladies and gentlemen! we are very interested in the polish president's remarks, especially because we are in a difficult period. the president of the comoros shall be the head of state of the presidency of the european union. we all want to overcome our difficulties, and today we are expecting positive, good signals from the polish presidency on the solution of many european problems. mr. president, i have to go. please, please!
president of the republic of poland. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house! thank you very much for such a nice introduction by my former boss, my friend george buz. i'd like to say that for me, meeting you is also a source of great emotion. i see many people in this room, not only from the circle of polish friends, but also many people with whom i have worked on issues that are important for poland's membership and for the whole region, our part of europe, in the european union. i would also like to say that, since jerzy buzek has mentioned my previous involvement, for me today's meeting with the european parliament is something extraordinary, if i go back to the most difficult time up to that point, from the very time of the state of war in poland, when i published an underground newspaper called abc (from the adriatic, the baltic and the black sea). we tried to write, to edit this paper with the hope that someday - perhaps in the distant future - not only poland, but also other countries in our region will be free, democratic countries, that they will be able to participate in processes from which my country and the entire region were separated by the evil sentences of history for several decades. today, the memory of that editorial work, which seemed basically to have no chance of success, is an important memory from the point of view of shaping also an attitude of optimism, an optimistic view of the world. if you can go from an underground newspaper printed in a conspiracy (but dedicated not only to your own polish problems, but to the problems of the entire region) to a meeting with the european parliament in a situation where poland holds the presidency of the european union, it is a source, again a source, of political optimism about the future of our continent. ladies and gentlemen! the history of europe is a history of conflict, a history of division, a history of strife and war. but they also bear witness to the unyielding desire of its peoples to be united. geographical, cultural, ethnic or linguistic divisions have not prevented people on our continent from building a united europe. because we have learned that diversity is not a threat, but an opportunity and an asset. the first project of european unity that was fully successful came from a small group of countries, born after the tragedy of wars, in a time of sharp ideological division of the continent. the schuman plan and the european coal and steel community were a kind of copernican revolution in the old continent. because just as that great scientist, nicolaus copernicus, changed the way we see the world, the practice of integration has changed the way we see international relations, and that's on a continent-wide scale. europeans have finally learned that cooperation and integration can build a better future beyond the divisions that are a difficult legacy of history. the price paid for peace, security and prosperity in europe, the voluntary surrender of a part of state sovereignty, has paid off like never before in history. but the plan of the founding fathers of the european union would not have succeeded without the bold ideas of perpetual peace and european federation developed by intellectuals in the old continent. among the authors of these projects were czech king george of podebrad, french princes and clergymen, german philosophers europeans of all faiths and languages. among them were also poles. and, as is characteristic of our history, they created their plans for unity and peace in europe even in the most difficult times for poland, because in the times when poland was not on the map of europe. they saw in a united europe a chance to recover and consolidate our nation's independence. one of them, wojciech jastrzębowski, wrote his "treaty of eternal peace", which he called the constitution for europe, just after one of the bloody battles of the november uprising in 1831, dreaming of an independent and secure poland. we know today that to build a united europe, it was first necessary to simply invent it. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the major breakthrough in european integration, the real unification of europe, came after the fall of the iron curtain, after 1989. the fall of communism and the transformation of central and eastern europe gave a new impetus to european integration. the countries of the european economic community and its institutions - the european commission and the european parliament - undertook to transform the common market into the european union, a union in which the area of the community was considerably enlarged. i will only mention three major projects which i believe are symbols of this transformation: the common foreign and security policy, the schengen area and the economic and monetary union. at the same time, the people of the european union have done something no less great and no less difficult, namely, they have made a great enlargement. the integration of the east and the west of the continent was made possible and is still progressing by a coordinated effort on both sides of the border that once divided europe. the great expansion of 2004-2007 involved a lot of work from all the governments involved, diplomats, parliaments, ngos, many actors that cannot be listed here. the countries of central and eastern europe have undergone major internal changes in preparation for membership. we had to make a rapid transition from totalitarianism and centrally controlled economy to democracy and free markets in our part of europe, in our country of poland. and it came at a price, and a painful price, in the form of unemployment, a worsening political climate, and a wave of populism. however, poland has managed to stabilise the political system and build an economic and financial system that proved its worth during the crisis of 2008 and 2009. and we know from our own experience that the courage to make a change simply pays off. the polish transformation was the work of the poles themselves, but its direction was determined by the desire to connect with a united europe. and europe has helped us a lot in that. it was solidarity with that part of europe which had been treated more kindly by history after 1945, solidarity with that part which had fallen victim to the judgments of history. the poles remember this solidarity. the european union's aid and solidarity are well known in this place, in the european parliament, which has been its spokesman. this parliament is the guardian of european solidarity. (laughter) (applause) mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. ladies and gentlemen! today, poland holds the presidency of the council of the european union - a dynamic country, full of confidence in the success of the european project, active in external relations and committed to strengthening europe's integration achievements. however, the polish presidency comes at a difficult time for europe, its societies and its economies. we are facing more challenges than we have seen in recent years. in most countries of the european union, we are facing not only a crisis of public finances, a crisis of fiscal policy, but also a weak economic growth. and then there are the demographic problems of europe, which have implications from economic to civilizational to political. the role of some financial institutions in bringing about the current crisis, their growing autonomy, the disconnect of financial markets from the real economy and social needs are all challenging the belief in the rationality of the free market. many economic decisions with serious social consequences are taken outside democratically elected parliaments and governments. the inadequate capacity of the union's governments and bodies to deal with the effects of the crisis is creating mistrust of europe in some places, arousing social anti-europeism and increasing the tendency to act unilaterally and to seek solutions on their own. today, one of the greatest achievements of european integration, the european social model, is being called into question. its core, its essence, has been a dynamic balance between three values, between freedom, justice and solidarity. it was this model that made life in europe what it was and still is considered to be the most human. that is why so many people from different parts of the world want to live in europe, want to take different routes to get here, often at great personal risk. the european union and its societies are at a turning point, perhaps the most difficult moment since the beginning of the integration process. the fight for the credibility and future of the single currency is being waged through accelerated decisions establishing crisis response mechanisms and deepening coordination of macroeconomic policies. although my country is still outside the euro area, we want to work together to develop and implement recovery plans. we know that the future of a project of fundamental importance to europe and its place in the world is at stake. the break-up of the euro and of economic and monetary union could be the prelude to a reversal of the process of integration with the worst possible consequences, including the abandonment of the union as a political project. (laughter) (applause) some people are talking (or hoping) about the inevitable return to the past, to attempts at domination, to nationalist attitudes, to the re-establishment of borders as a consequence of the collapse of the single currency. we don't allow such scenarios in poland. (laughter) (applause) we do not allow it, also guided by our polish experience and the experience of the last generation of "solidarity" in poland. we in poland know well how easy it is to destroy the civilization of many generations in a few years. we just lived through it. the union and its policies need to take bold decisions, as bold as those that launched the process of european integration 60 years ago. at first, not everyone understood the new nature of the relationship between sovereignty and security and development. that's why the european defence community project failed. it is worth remembering that the european coal and steel community and then the eec were not created by all those who could then do so. but then they joined the communities, they participate in the process, and they are the beneficiaries of the process. in the face of external challenges and internal problems, the european union cannot stand still. we have to change a lot if we want to avoid social unrest on a much larger scale than what we have seen in various countries in the last few months or weeks in the face of troubles, in the face of problems in the main economic area. ladies and gentlemen! crisis is also part of the polish experience. the crisis is not only a threat, but also an opportunity to give a new impetus to the process of deepening european integration. a chance to rethink and rebuild our common institutions so that the union regains its capacity for further development and integration. hence the polish presidency's programme, in which 'more europe!' is our response to the crisis. (laughter) (applause) french president charles de gaulle once compared the building of a united europe to the construction of a gothic cathedral. here, in the vicinity of the magnificent strasbourg cathedral, it is important to note and remember that the medieval cathedral builders did not know all the details of their planned construction, did not know its final shape, but they knew the purpose of their work, they knew what the building was supposed to serve. i believe that the situation in europe today also requires such awareness and a long-term perspective. our objectives should be guided by three interrelated values: security, development and solidarity. the new instruments are designed to ensure the european union's vitality, progress and international standing. at the same time, it is imperative to maintain the cohesion of the union as a whole. this requires that the process of deepening integration be kept open. the polish presidency will make every effort to finalise the reform of economic governance in the european union as soon as possible. i would like to thank the european parliament for its great commitment and valuable contribution to the improvement of the solutions of the so-called six-pack, which aims to strengthen the eu's stability and growth pact and to keep the public finances of the european union countries in balance. at the same time, i call for support for the presidency's efforts to adopt swiftly a package which is fundamental to the economic stability of our european community. (laughter) (applause) the success of the european project as a whole is a function of its most advanced and ambitious parts. i am thinking here first of all of the single currency, which, despite the current problems, is a great achievement. proposals to deepen the process of european integration on the basis of the euro area are increasingly being made. the reality, including the reality of the crisis, is that we are open to discussing this issue. however, it should be borne in mind that such profound changes if they are not to undermine the whole of the europe project should be made by means of changes in the treaties. e need to obtain the consent of all member states raises the question and the requirement of ensuring that all countries have the chance to be in the area of deeper integration after meeting clear criteria. he asks whether such a clear criterion should not simply be to have a healthy national economy. i do not see the public finance crisis as a failure of the single currency, but we should seek solutions that will allow it to be stabilised in the long term and to exploit its full potential to create prosperity for europeans. the current crisis has shown that it is essential to strengthen the economic pillar of the economic and monetary union. we need to coordinate economic policies better, and it is worth developing an emerging coordination platform in the form of the euro+ pact, which not only involves euro area countries but also all non-euro area countries that believe in the success of the single currency and are determined to join it. strengthening the coordination of member states' macroeconomic policies has the potential to further the political integration of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the international situation requires enhanced cooperation throughout the union. no single european union country is able to influence the international order, new phenomena or problems effectively, and to cope with external crises on its own. in the face of the global challenges of our time, whether in security, climate change or the global financial crisis, only a more integrated union has a chance to influence others effectively and to take part in the decision-making process. (applause) the current situation should provide an impetus for a stronger european security and defence policy. the relevant proposals were submitted by the weimar triangle countries. the european union faces a major challenge in developing a sound policy for its immediate environment. we've been talking a lot in europe in recent months about helping the arab spring. we remember the year 1989, the famous autumn of nations, the autumn of peoples. hence, no one in poland needs to be convinced of the importance of events in africa and the middle east and of the need to support the aspirations of freedom in these countries. however, attention cannot be focused only on the southern neighbourhood. we need a more serious approach by the european union to its eastern neighbours than has been the case so far. there is no contradiction between the need for the european union to be involved in supporting countries to the east and south of the union. this is all our neighborhood! (laughter) (applause) it is a long-term policy towards those eastern european nations which have the prospect of membership, even if it is remote. we see this in the case of ukraine, which is making efforts under difficult conditions to move closer to the union, to associate with it, and perhaps in the long term to have the prospect of membership. i would also like to share my personal experience of talking to the president of ukraine, difficult conversations about difficult issues. i would like to express my deep conviction that ukraine is determined to achieve the conditions necessary for convergence and for participation in european integration. this also includes working to raise democratic standards within the country. the eastern partnership summit in warsaw at the end of september should result in a clear and ambitious political declaration. the partner nations in eastern europe expect a clear signal from us as to what kind of partnership we want to build with them, how much we want to be involved in their european aspirations, how much we want to see borders as no barrier to people-to-people contacts. how much are we really prepared to do together to strengthen a common european identity based on common european roots? (applause) mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. ladies and gentlemen! "the concept of europe"... wrote zbigniew herbert, a great polish poet, important for the polish generation of solidarity, because the poet who spoke and wrote about freedom in the same way as my generation, the generation of solidarity people, felt this issue, the importance of the issue of the struggle for freedom. zbigniew herbert wrote: 'the concept of europe has always been a shaky and imprecise one for the simple reason that it is not the name of a continent surrounded by sea, precisely enclosed within its borders. instead, it evokes certain associations and, dare we say, a racing heartbeat. herbert wrote this in 1973, at a time of profound division in europe, which seemed to exclude from europe the nations that had been part of it for a thousand years, simply because they were on the eastern side of the iron curtain. i remember well the feeling of those times, the heartbeat of timid dreams of freedom, timid, then brave, dreams of poland's participation in the development of the free world. i remember that heartbeat, and i would like us to continue to feel emotionally connected to europe, so that the very thought of europe, of its future, continues to make our hearts tremble. but it's not the shaky shake, it's the shake, the rapid pulse, that comes with taking on new, bold challenges, making important decisions. we in poland believe deeply in europe and want a european union that is dynamic and courageous, open and united. we want a union which will ensure that europe plays a role in the world commensurate with the greatness of its civilization, a union which will protect the vitality of this civilization, the european civilization. we want a union that will give all its peoples security, that will respond appropriately to the needs and concerns of its citizens. we know that such a union is possible. this is the union we want to build with the other nations of europe. (the audience applauds the speaker on his feet.)
mr. president, i have to go. thank you for saying that. you mentioned your activities in the adriatic-baltic-black sea triangle 30 to 40 years ago. today you have added another very important sea to this triangle, the mediterranean, which is a key sea for europe. you mentioned our southern partnership and the need to work towards it. you said, "diversity is not a threat. it can be an asset and a strength. we agree with you. you also said that poland could be a source of optimism for our continent. we're counting on it. we need to be prudent and courageous in our actions. finally, as i pointed out, you said: 'the european parliament is the constant defender of european solidarity'. those are important words for us. we are convinced that the european parliament wants to and will participate in all the projects which aim to strengthen our community, to improve many of the problems which are still difficult to solve today. we as representatives of 500 million europeans take responsibility for the community action that has been so important for the whole of europe over the last few decades. we believe it will be important in the future. thank you, mr president!
mr. chairman, please! effective management of the raw materials policy is one of the key conditions for competitiveness. the scarcity of raw materials, especially rare ones, is a challenge for the european economy that requires a coherent and long-term policy strategy. i therefore agree with the need to improve coordination of activities in relation to the exploration, extraction and distribution of raw materials. the issue of recycling and resource conservation is also important. it is also necessary to develop a clear and predictable framework for the issuing of permits for the opening of new mines. the future of europe's industrial economy depends on wide access to raw materials, both energy and other. it will therefore be of great importance to develop an innovative, targeted strategy for resource management activities that guarantees security of supply and enhances the competitiveness of union enterprises. in supporting the report, i hope to see a revival of industrial strength and an increase in europe's scientific and research potential.
the gulf disaster has made us aware of the need to take action to improve safety in the mining industry. given the large number of active european installations, mainly in the north sea basin, where hazardous incidents have also occurred, it is necessary to establish a coherent legal framework and rules to ensure that only safe and sustainable operations are carried out. the development of a high level of safety in the mining industry aimed at protecting people and the environment will enhance public confidence and contribute to the union's position in strengthening global regulations. it is also in the community's interest to strengthen cooperation with neighbouring countries exploiting marine resources. in particular, with the mediterranean countries under the neighbourhood policy, but also with norway, russia and the united states. the establishment of common, transparent rules of procedure will bring both mutual economic benefits and increased security, which is why i support the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the amendment of the regulation on the eu agency frontex. the amendment of the regulation is necessary to strengthen the agency in carrying out activities to support member states in crisis situations requiring increased technical and operational assistance at the external borders. in order to operate effectively, frontex also needs more resources, including for the purchase of its own equipment. to date, member states have not provided sufficient financial support to the agency. i also support a greater role for agencies in respecting fundamental rights. in this respect, frontex needs to work more closely with other european agencies: the fundamental rights agency, europol, eurojust and the european asylum support office. i hope that the polish presidency will effectively seek to complete the work on the amendment of the regulation on the eu agency frontex.
in writing. - the overwhelming majority of votes cast for the report by mr busuttil is proof that parliament is in favour of a strong and capable border protection agency. the decision to set up european border guard teams is undoubtedly important for its visibility.
in writing. - dual-use products are the result of scientific and technical achievements, the fruits of civilization. the idea behind such products is usually to improve the quality of life, as in the case of chemical and medical products, or to make everyday work and communication easier, for example, as in the case of information technology. however, if misused, they can pose a serious threat to health and life. therefore, the control of exports of dual-use items outside the eu should be as thorough as possible and the standards for its implementation should be as high and rigorous in all member states. inaccuracies in inspection, lack of information on final customers and final use of products can lead to disaster.
in writing. − a vote was held on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community system for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items. i have supported the complex idea because i believe that control of these products is necessary to prevent the spread of biological, chemical and, most importantly, nuclear weapons. i believe that the european union should speak with one voice and that its position should be supported by the european parliament. in addition, coordination at the level of the european union and its role in the international arena should be improved. in order to achieve those objectives, it is necessary to ensure that member states and the commission establish a system for the collection, transmission and storage of notifications. the commission should also be required to inform the european parliament of the operation of the system and to request an annual report from the coordination group.
in writing. − consumers' demands on the european union market are constantly increasing, not only for the quality of food products, but also for their variety. the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation will certainly provide greater access to regional products for european union citizens and will also contribute to improving their quality. i believe that this agreement will strengthen trade relations between the two countries and increase the competitiveness of exported products, mainly from the agricultural sector of the european union, by increasing the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin. increased competitiveness and an increase in the quality of exported agricultural products will contribute to the stable and sustainable development of rural areas.
in writing. − the trade agreement with the kingdom of norway should be developed to mutual benefit and the gradual reduction of restrictions on the exchange of agricultural goods. the inclusion in the negotiations of products of a special nature which are important for agricultural production (such as meat or dairy products) is a most welcome initiative which allows the establishment of quotas and customs duties appropriate to market conditions. of course, we cannot predict today what concrete results this agreement will bring in a dozen or so years or decades. however, the progressive liberalisation of agricultural trade with norway has so far resulted in increased exports of agricultural products to the eu, which gives reason for optimism about the future.
in writing. − the audit policy report is a response to the european commission's green paper on the broad audit activity in europe. from the beginning of this report, i was convinced that the far-reaching reduction in the activities of the so-called big four audit firms could also have negative effects on the industry as a whole. i am glad that it has not gone in the direction of witch-hunting and finding the culprits of the current financial crisis. i believe that it is far more constructive to seek new and improve existing auditing standards than to blame the failure of global financial markets primarily on the activities of audit firms. i am also pleased that the report reflects the demands of the audit industry, which is not always flattering and which itself feels the need to make some changes. we should continue to insist on the independence of those who carry out audits of the financial situation of companies, which is a challenge not only for auditors but also for the supervisory boards of the companies audited. i would also like to emphasise that the report provides a balanced and balanced assessment of the activities of audit firms, while also highlighting the opportunities for the smaller firms in this sector to develop more fully and participate more in the market and to increase their competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as it touches upon one of the most significant social problems europe is facing today – the ageing population. low birth rate on one side, and growing healthy long-lived pensioners on the other, may create a problem for us with a view to ensuring sustainable pensions in the future. to prevent such a catastrophic scenario, the report examines the proportions of older women in the labour market, and suggests that maintaining their employment, instead of enforcing compulsory retirement, could prove to be a remedy to many economic and social problems. i am very much in favour of such a strategy. while many citizens today view the ageing population as a burden on society, i believe that proper management and integration of older labour can certainly prove the opposite.
in writing. − most eu countries are facing not only the problem of an ageing population but also the increasing unemployment of women over 50. the occupational position of these women on the labour market is much less favourable than that of men of the same age, which often results in early retirement. providing older women with better access to education, care and addressing the negative perception of their labour market opportunities could lead to a significant increase in their labour market participation. a number of options can be considered to avoid the situation where older women are faced with the consequences of pension benefits for having given up their professional activities to provide unpaid care. i also welcome the inclusion in the document of the issue of women in caring roles. in the context of the many thousands of polish women working in this profession illegally in other eu countries or, having given up their professional careers, doing it without pay in their own homes, action to prevent their future poverty and social exclusion is necessary.
in writing. - europe is in a difficult demographic situation. this is particularly true of the ageing of the population and the decline in population. unfortunately, the pension system and the labour market suffer. we should therefore pay more attention to the benefits of employing people who are approaching retirement age. there are many benefits to this. above all, a senior employee has a wealth of knowledge and experience, and he or she feels very satisfied because he or she can feel appreciated and needed. sadly, older people are often discouraged from working or even sent into early retirement. more should therefore be done to activate them. women are particularly vulnerable, as their potential is often under-exploited. in later life, they take on the role of caregivers for grandchildren or the elderly, thus excluding them from the labour market. in order to make better use of the advantages of women as workers, they should be allowed to remain in the labour market as long as possible. this requires special programmes to support older women to be able to work freely in the labour market, to the benefit of society as a whole.
in writing. − on 13 september 2011, a vote was held on the situation of women of pre-retirement age. it was adopted by a majority of votes. i supported the motion for a resolution because i believe that older people are an invaluable source of cultural, professional and social wealth. the 2020 strategy aims to reduce poverty and increase employment to 75%, but the employment rate for women aged 55-64 is only 37.8% and for men 54.8%. i think that we should create training and develop the skills of older women, which will help them find work. it should be noted that women's careers are often interrupted or curtailed and their earnings are much lower than men's. women are at high risk of poverty, exclusion and social exclusion because their working lives are much shorter. women are often not active in the workforce because of their domestic duties, and therefore have no chance of receiving pension benefits later on. the right changes in approach to the problem of ageing can have a positive impact on economic and social policies.
in writing. - i supported the report on the situation of women approaching retirement age. age is the most common reason for not getting a job these days. graduates are too young, too inexperienced, and the rest of the population is usually too old. the situation of the elderly is particularly difficult. people approaching 50 years of age have limited chances of finding employment on the polish labour market. at the end of december 2009, 391 672 people over 50 years of age were registered with polish employment offices. this represents 20.7% of the total unemployed. older women are particularly vulnerable. this group is characterised by low levels of employment. more than half of women of pre-retirement age remain outside the labour market. given that by 2020 people over 60 will represent more than 26% of the population, reintegrating older people into the labour market is one of the key tasks in the professional activation of disadvantaged groups in employment. i therefore wanted to draw particular attention to paragraph 10 of the report, in which parliament calls on the commission and the member states to create the conditions for older women to remain in the labour market or to re-enter it, and to help them to fulfil their professional potential and to respect their rights. at the same time, measures should be introduced to encourage employers to improve equal opportunities policies in order to eliminate discriminatory attitudes towards older women.
in writing. − it is not often that, despite the different models adopted in national systems, we can commend member states for implementing an eu directive. mediation as an institution is already widely recognised in national legislation, but we need to ensure that the letter of the law is alive and has a wide practical application. i believe that the current efforts of both the member states and the eu institutions should be directed towards promoting the mediation instrument among european citizens and businesses, as they are often unaware of the possibility of using mediation, do not fully understand its principles and fear that the outcome of such negotiations will not be legally binding. therefore, a campaign for mediation should emphasise that it is a fast, cheap and professional way of resolving disputes. the position and perception of the mediator is crucial. he must be a person of public trust, his neutrality and independence must be confirmed by the creation of codes of ethics and provisions in the law. the quality of mediation itself should also be based on the consolidation of good practices and standards, which, as the report shows, are already beginning to yield good results and confirm the assumption that mediation can be effective and, beyond the obvious benefit to the parties, can relieve the burden of overcrowded courts in the future.
in writing. − the eu's raw materials strategy is designed to ensure that europe has stable supplies of key raw materials for european industry, such as copper, at a time when the raw materials market is becoming increasingly competitive and raw materials, in particular rare earths, are available in few, often undemocratic, countries. in an increasingly globalised world, europe must take steps to ensure the security of its raw materials. this can be done by making better use of indigenous raw materials and, where this is not possible, security should be sought through appropriate international agreements. i believe that this report is a step in the right direction, but it must be followed by concrete action.
in writing. − i have decided to vote in favour of the report as it acknowledges the significant contribution of women entrepreneurs to our economy and society. this report points out the obstacles women entrepreneurs face while trying to balance family commitments with work. it also mentions other obstacles facing women wishing to enter a masculine-dominated business environment. while studies demonstrate that women are more than capable of succeeding in a working place, as they are better at time management, multi-tasking, business planning, etc, we do not yet have enough legislative instruments to support women who have decided to become entrepreneurs; we also lack sufficient instruments to encourage women who may consider becoming entrepreneurs. i personally view this report as the first step to enable such legislation by establishing a policy based on recognising the problems, exchanging good practices and debating solutions. this kind of policy can promote more female entrepreneurs in europe.
in writing. − micro-enterprises with fewer than 10 employees account for 91% of european enterprises. despite the increase in the number of women running smes over the last decade, women represent only one tenth of entrepreneurs in the european union. as someone with many years of experience in business, i am delighted to see the efforts to increase the number of women entrepreneurs. the project not only emphasises the implementation of policies to enable women to maintain an appropriate work-life balance, but also stresses the need to promote financial support, in the form of special grants or microcredits, and vocational guidance structures.
in writing. - small and medium-sized enterprises are a very dynamic sector of the economy today. the demand for various services is constantly increasing, and innovative business ideas are in demand. therefore, women who are in a weaker position than men on the labour market and whose creativity and specific qualities as workers are not fully exploited should be given special support. all initiatives that make it easier for women to implement their initiatives without unnecessary red tape should be supported. and you need training and help to start a business, because a lot of women want to, they have an idea, but they don't know how to do it. it is also important to provide support to encourage women to take up employment in such enterprises. facilitating young mothers, providing for example a kindergarten at the workplace, or supporting women approaching retirement age with invaluable experience and extensive knowledge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the very important ep resolution on women entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises because i support all initiatives for women. i am among others the founder of the polka potrafi association in poland, which teaches women how to live better, smarter and more pleasantly. unfortunately, in my country, it is still much more difficult for women to run a business than it is for men. they can't expect the same credit terms as male-owned businesses. it is therefore crucial that the commission, the member states and regional and local authorities make better use of the funding opportunities available to women entrepreneurs, such as the european progress microfinance facility, grants, social security and interest rate reductions. the information campaign for women on the european progress microfinance facility and all the funding opportunities it offers is also important. i would like to ask that special attention be paid to the situation of older women and that they be helped to set up their own businesses. it is important to increase support for vocational training programmes for women in smes in the industrial sector and to include support for research and innovation, in line with the seventh framework programme and the provisions of the european charter for small enterprises.
in writing. - the debate on women's entrepreneurship is one of the most important discussions concerning european business. increasing the number of women business owners is a major challenge, but through coordinated support schemes, it will bring tangible benefits to the people of the european union. the rapporteur should be thanked for drawing attention to this problem. we must be aware of all the limitations of the european labour market and intensify our efforts to improve its quality. women's professional activity is a particular area of interest to me. in my previous work with the councils of rural women and the lubuskie land employers' organisation, i have taken a number of initiatives to increase the rate of entrepreneurship among women in my region. i hope that the new forms of business (e-business) that i am promoting will help women to become self-employed in the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, i would like to warmly welcome my friend minister korolec, who, for the first time, is representing the polish presidency in this house. the goal of this regulation is twofold: to increase transparency and prevent market abuse. we in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection were obviously concerned with the impact on consumers. as commissioner oettinger said, it has an impact on energy prices, which is of utmost importance to consumers. it is also important because it has an impact on energy security. it would prevent the formation of monopolies abusing their dominant position. i am especially glad that our idea to take into account damages caused to consumers when determining penalties for breaking the rules was included in the final compromise. i thank the rapporteur for that. most importantly, this regulation brings us closer to achieving this house’s great ambition of creating the single market in energy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr minister, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i think the best thing the european union can do for europe's energy is to have real competition in the common market. this competition will have the effect of lowering prices for both individual and industrial customers. and that in turn will translate into profitability, into the competitiveness of our economy. genuine liberalisation can also improve energy security where it is threatened by the over-dominance and sometimes monopoly of suppliers. this is the situation in central europe, which is still too heavily dependent on russia's gazprom. in order for the market and competition to function, to operate freely, trust and guarantees for fair practices are needed. the development of the wholesale electricity and gas market, including the cross-border market for these products, requires better coordination of national monitoring and control activities, which will be possible with the entry into force of the remit regulation. parliament has corrected the commission's proposal. we have made clear, or at least more explicit, the distinction between the competences of the national regulators and those of brussels. we have clarified the rules for issuing delegated acts. we have introduced better safeguards for the confidentiality of data to be transmitted by the parties to acer. finally, we propose to extend the controls to derivative contracts in the market for co2 emissions trading, which is certain to grow very rapidly in the coming years. these are all reasons why we will certainly not avoid discussing better financial support for acer in the coming years. these are also the reasons why the conservative and reform group will support the report proposed by ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this report is a victory for those who want to strengthen the internal market and transparency standards in the energy field. in that sense, it is a further step towards the europeanisation of energy policy, and i welcome that very much. i am pleased that long-term contracts are included in the information that has to be reported. some said during the discussions that this is against market rules, that we should not disclose information, contracts, etc. i think that to exclude often secretive contracts would continue to distort the market. now, as these backroom deals will be more open, energy prices will truly reflect the reality of supply and demand. we must now take this transparency one step further. we should move towards more transparency in international gas agreements. they are often contradictory to the law and values of the european union, so i very much welcome the commission proposal for a decision on information for international agreements. the commission should also work towards greater transparency of the ownership of energy firms. today, it is all but impossible to know who owns what. companies that are in competition, in theory, could in fact be owned by the same individual. we should know more – of course, it is impossible to control everything and to know everything – but we should know more about who is actually controlling market activities.
in writing. the eu regulation on energy market integrity and transparency will apply to all energy trading companies in the european union. it will regulate the rules for the conclusion of contracts, the origin, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity. we seem to have reached a compromise which does not work against the development of competition in the european energy market and thus does not undermine the full liberalisation of the market proposed by the european commission. the european infrastructure and market instruments created by the third liberalisation package supported by the european commission's initiatives for trade integrity and transparency in the wholesale energy market should ensure the liberalisation of national electricity markets and the harmonisation of regulatory frameworks. the agreement reached will be a success of both the hungarian and polish presidencies and will bring the market integration process to a successful conclusion by 2014.
on behalf of the s&d group. as previous rapporteur on better lawmaking, subsidiarity and proportionality last year, i paid particular attention to the issue of transparency and citizens' understanding of legislation and to ex post evaluation, i.e. the careful monitoring of what happens to eu law after it has been adopted. i therefore support the report's demands to assess the impact of legislation, to correct its irregularities and to replicate successful initiatives, to focus on simplifying eu legislation and to refrain from drawing up legislation unless it is needed in a specific situation. however, i am still opposed to the rapporteur's proposed 'one in, one out' rule, which provides that new legislation can only be introduced if some previous legal arrangements are removed. it's just not practical. the reduction of administrative burdens and the simplification of the law must not lead to a lowering of the standards provided for in the applicable legislation. i believe that more action and ambition are needed if the target of reducing administrative burdens by 25% by 2012 is to be achieved. it is also worth remembering the regulation on the european citizens' initiative, which entered into force on 1 april 2011 and thus opened up the possibility for ordinary citizens to participate in the creation of better legislation. we need to take all of this into account if we want to see real change and improvement in the way we make good and understandable legislation. finally, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for a job well done.
ladies and gentlemen! when we talk about better lawmaking, we must first of all remember that it all starts here, in the eu institutions, and therefore also in the european parliament. we can and of course should draw the attention of the member states to delays, incorrect or complicated supplementary provisions in the implementation of individual directives or the imposition in national legislation of requirements which are more restrictive than those actually contained in community regulations. but first, we need to look at the parts of the legislative process that we can improve ourselves to make the law that comes out of this house better. the smart regulation that mr karim talks about in his report is no longer just clear and legible legislation, it is legislation that is based on rigorous and independent impact assessments that are consulted with all stakeholders. the situation of smes operating on the union market is a particularly striking and frequently cited example. the importance of these small businesses for the development of the common market and the european economy cannot be overstated. yet it is these individuals, these entities, that continue to suffer from a degree of legislative ignorance, continue to face excessive costs and administrative burdens, and continue to be too rarely considered in the legislative process, despite the call of the small business act. we're still discussing the financial crisis that is plaguing europe. however, it seems that this is the last moment to stop just discussing the need to improve the legal environment for smes and micro-enterprises, and to put these rules into practice. we all make mistakes, but let's learn from our mistakes.
so here i am. i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and i would like to emphasize very strongly that we still have many barriers in europe to the development of small and mediumsized enterprises. well, one of the obstacles that we have not talked about today is that very often the individual countries of the union do not recognize qualifications acquired in other countries. this makes it very difficult for individual companies to be active and flexible. they need much more time to adapt to the market. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner whether the european commission is actively working to adopt standards that would apply in individual countries, so that these standards are then respected and that these people can start work quickly without additional examinations.
member of the commission. − madam president, given the strange and precarious conditions which many people are living and working under, it is not surprising that homelessness is increasingly in the public eye both in the eu institutions and outside. we have to look at the social consequences of the financial and economic crisis, but in this particular case it is also important to understand that homelessness existed before, and the crisis just aggravated this situation in a number of member states. there is, however, also a growing understanding of what is needed to tackle it. the member states need to continue developing national or regional plans for action to deal with homelessness along the lines identified in the 2010 joint report on social protection and social inclusion. of course, the member states are responsible for much of what needs doing, but the eu can encourage and support the member states in their efforts – for example, by helping to improve our understanding of the problems and possible solutions, finding better tools to measure them, and disseminating knowledge better. eu funding can also help. the eu structural funds can and should be mobilised to tackle homelessness. the european regional development fund provides funding for social housing for marginalised communities, and should continue to do so in the future. the european social fund provides support for the social and labour market reintegration of homeless people. we are currently drawing up the post-2013 financial framework. in this connection, gearing cohesion policy funding to meeting the europe 2020 headline targets, including for reducing poverty, is vital. the european consensus conference identified possible avenues and we are following them – for example, improving knowledge and monitoring, applying housing-led approaches, and promoting innovation and experimentation. similarly, parliament’s declaration of 16 december 2010 on an eu homelessness strategy highlights a number of priorities, including the need for better statistics. the commission is actively engaged in work at eu level. preventing and tackling homelessness is an important aspect of work to tackle social exclusion and poverty under the europe 2020 strategy. it is also a key area of work under the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, which covers areas highlighted at the consensus conference. we have just commissioned a new study on the links between homelessness and migration. we are continuing our work on homelessness indicators in conjunction with the social protection committee. we have promoted social innovation based on housing-led approaches which we would like to see applied more widely. what matters now is putting all our energy and resources into carrying out the tasks identified at eu level so we get results quickly, rather than introducing new procedures or steering structures in the form of high-level groups or committees. last month, i met key stakeholders to talk about how to step up our work on homelessness and what framework would help ensure that enough attention and energy are put into doing what is needed. this dialogue continues and will also be followed up by action.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i have a particular reason to speak out in this debate, because it is a matter of great personal importance to me. it's a family tradition. one of my ancestors was a 19th-century founder of shelters and homeless shelters in the polish city of krakow. as you can see, this is a very old problem, much older than the european union. then, as now, the state too often laid its hands helplessly. today, of course, we can say, and it is true, that this is the responsibility of the member states of the european union, not the union itself. however, it seems that for moral and ethical reasons the european parliament can show the way, it can urge the member states to coordinate their actions in this area. the crisis has revealed what was once shamefully hidden. the water crisis that has fallen shows the essence of the matter: it is indeed a problem, if not a universal one, it is really growing. we're talking here, of course, about speculation in the real estate market. there is also the banking system in general, loans that often cause people who take them to go broke or become homeless. it's a much broader problem of modern civilization, which, consumed by consumerism, creates a growing margin of people who can't cope. we should remember that too. in closing, i would like to say that this case goes beyond political divisions. we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all try to speak with one voice, and we can all speak with one voice. especially since there are more and more of them in every country, rich and poor.
madam president! the problem of homelessness remains unsolved in europe. the characteristics of the homeless population are also changing. the stereotypical homeless person used to be a middle-aged man, but now young women, victims of violence and immigrants are increasingly homeless. the most visible and extreme form of homelessness is street homelessness, although it can take other forms as well. this phenomenon has a negative impact on entire societies and, despite the efforts of the member states, action at union level is necessary. not only do member states have different definitions of homelessness, but they also use different methods of collecting and presenting data. therefore, in order to create a common framework for the union to support and monitor the member states' efforts to develop strategies to combat homelessness, it is necessary to address these problems. that is why i would like to ask the commission a few questions today. the european consensus conference on homelessness last december divided the causes of homelessness into many categories, which arise from different backgrounds. in its work on the strategy, will the commission propose solutions that take account of the different circumstances that lead people to homelessness? does the commission intend to involve ngos in the work on the strategy? how would the commission like to involve ngos in the fight against homelessness beyond the activities they already carry out as part of their statutory tasks? how does the commission intend to measure the effectiveness of the strategy once it is in place, given that the situation of homeless people varies across the member states?
madam president! one of the five objectives of the new eu strategy europe 2020 is to lift 20 million people out of poverty in the european union. the 2009 poverty figures are alarming: 113 million people are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. this situation is so worrying that it may worsen due to the economic and financial crisis. homelessness is a very drastic form of poverty, and worse, it's hereditary, making it harder to fight and prevent. i welcome all the work of the european parliament, which has placed particular emphasis on combating this phenomenon. the initiatives so far have set out clearly defined demands for the prevention and eradication of homelessness, including the elimination of street homelessness by 2015 and the fight against its causes through adequate housing and social policies. the success of the strategy to tackle homelessness at european level will depend on how the commission fulfils its role of mobilising member states as soon as possible to develop effective and comprehensive strategies to tackle and respond to homelessness. the success of the project will also depend to a large extent on the openness to working with people affected by homelessness, ngos and other social partners. the creation of an effective policy against homelessness is therefore dependent on interinstitutional cooperation and the proper and effective implementation of existing legal acts. only a common political vision and the commitment of the european union and the member states can contribute to the full achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! homelessness is a serious problem. we should be using best practices in the fight against homelessness. we must do this because human dignity and its protection is one of the fundamental values of the european union. fortunately, we have many examples of successful work with the homeless. it should not only be done by ngos, but perhaps above all by local authorities. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, local authorities should not and cannot avoid this problem. i therefore encourage local authorities, including in my home town of poznań, to treat the issue of homelessness with due care and seriousness. after all, the goal of all politics, at all levels, is to serve the common good, to serve the people. and who is more in need of public assistance than someone who, for whatever reason, is on the street? let's keep that in mind. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. having been actively involved for many years in raising awareness among europeans about poverty and the fight against its extreme manifestation, homelessness, i support the european parliament's draft resolution calling for the establishment of a framework for the first european strategy to combat homelessness in europe. homelessness still affects people in all eu member states. the european union should therefore act in solidarity to coordinate homelessness policy at european level. the problem of homelessness requires a more strategic approach, which can only be achieved through the cooperation of all member states. i support the european parliament's call for an ambitious, integrated eu strategy, based on national and regional strategies, with the long-term aim of minimising the scale of this dangerous phenomenon. at the same time, while recognising the importance of monitoring and reporting, i call for the eu strategy to combat homelessness to go beyond monitoring and reporting and to develop actions to support the development and maintenance of effective national and regional strategies to combat homelessness.
member of the commission. − madam president, i can see that he is not here any more but concerning the first intervention by mr tănăsescu, i just wanted to clarify one thing. i think that most people here will be aware of it, but although it does sound as if we are always only addressing co2 emissions this is actually not true. the vocabulary we use for simplicity’s sake always refers to co2 emission reductions. this is because everything in the international negotiations is measured in co2 equivalents, but that of course means that other kinds of emissions are being translated, so to speak, into the currency of co2. sometimes therefore this might give the wrong picture as if we are only talking about or only addressing co2 emissions. that is not the case. on chris davies’s story about air conditioning in cars, i know that mr davies will be aware that i agree 100% with the view that we heard, that when you make a regulation it actually pushes innovation forward. the story we heard started back in 2004 when we drew up the f-gas regulation. i recall that very well because that environment council meeting was my first council meeting as danish minister, and we had this big fight about how ambitious the f-gas regulation should be. i still recall that a few of us – i think austria and denmark – fought so that we could have more ambitious targets in our respective member states, so i can assure the whole parliament that i have given a very clear message to all my services that the review we are going to make must be as ambitious as it can sensibly be. i look forward very much to working with parliament in securing that. i could ask a lot of detailed questions, saying what about this or that, but i think i addressed most of them in my first intervention. one key initiative to try to address many of these things will be the review that i mentioned for the thematic strategy on air pollution: the review will be ready for 2013. that is a major initiative and i think we will have a chance there to address many of these things. mr tremopoulos mentioned that it is fine that we have imposed a ban on hfc-23 for companies, but what about member states? i can tell you that back in march at the environment council the danish minister proposed that the member states commit voluntarily not to use hfc-23, and by the next council meeting in june this alliance had grown quite substantially. i cannot exactly recall here, but there were maybe 10 - 12 countries or more who said they would check and come back, so i think there is a growing movement among member states to follow our legislation. finally, i can also say that, since last week when i had the chance to discuss this in new zealand, in australia and elsewhere, it is my feeling that when we do things like this with hfc-23 in europe, others consider how they can follow. it is not that we do it in an empty room and then nothing more happens. i would very much like to thank you for the draft resolution and i will be looking forward also to working with the european parliament when we come with this review and the suggestions as to how to follow up on the f-gas regulation. that is one thing we can do relatively soon internally in europe. at the same time, as i mentioned, there are a number of international initiatives where we could try to mutually support one another and try to push forward this agenda at international level too. so thank you very much for this initiative. i am looking forward to continued cooperation on this.
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the economic crisis and the euro. as you know, the european parliament has already been working during the holidays to ensure that we start discussing the crisis immediately after the holidays and do everything we can to support the commission's work and to work with the council to solve the economic problems on our continent. a meeting of the econ committee took place on 29 august. we are now continuing our debate in the european parliament. at the next plenary session, prime minister juncker will also discuss the economic issues of our continent. so we're dealing with our most important domestic issue. today, the representative of the polish presidency, minister jan vincent-rostowski, and the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, are taking part in the discussions. welcome, both of you!
acting president of the council. - mr. speaker, the house! 219 years ago in paris, on july 11, 1792, the national assembly issued an appeal, and the appeal began with the words "la patrie est en danger". i think that today we have no doubt, we can have no doubt - and i will say this in french - que l'europe est en danger. two months later, a brief skirmish took place at valmy, and the french republic was saved. it was september 1792. we are still a long way from that victory, and i would like to draw attention today to the threats facing europe, ourselves, parliament and the institutions. first of all, i think we have to say clearly, unequivocally, that if it were not for the necessary intervention of the european central bank in august of this year, an intervention that was fully justified from the technical, legal and political points of view - i will return to these three elements in a moment - we would not be looking with alarm at the coming hurricane today, we would already be in the middle of it. i have no doubt that in those hot days, the european central bank, and in particular its president, jean claude trichet, saved europe. the technical justification for the intervention, which started then and is still ongoing today, is quite clear and also constitutes a legal justification. the level of uncertainty, the level of fear that exists in the markets due to the fear of giant shocks that could naturally sink europe, prevents the normal functioning of monetary policy. how can the central bank influence and ensure price stability if the normal channel of transmission, which is the setting of interest rates, the supply of money by the central bank does not affect the actions of either european families or european entrepreneurs, or of course, most importantly, fundamentally, the behaviour of european commercial banks. all these players in european economic life are aware of the risks and therefore do not know whether to hamper money, which prevents the normal functioning of the transmission mechanisms, or to get rid of money, which could cause dangerous inflation. in this uncertain environment, the central bank's first obligation must be to safeguard transmission mechanisms and to safeguard stability. for this we must not only be grateful to the european central bank, but also stand firmly and clearly behind its decisions. (laughter) i think it's also worth thinking about what would happen if we let the eurozone gradually disintegrate, if some countries, the poorer, the weaker, were pushed out of the eurozone, or if other countries, the richer, decided to leave the eurozone on their own. members of the house of lords are probably aware of the recent analysis published by the swiss bank ubs. according to these calculations, if a poor country, a country in trouble, were to leave the eurozone, or be pushed out of the eurozone, the cost to that country could be 40 to 50 percent of gdp in the first year, and then on a scale of 10 to 20 percent of gdp per year. if a rich country were to decide to leave the euro, the cost would be 20 to 25 percent of gdp in the first year, and then gdp would be permanently 10 percent lower than it is now. these may seem like abstract numbers. let's think about what would happen to unemployment in richer countries, in a country like germany, or if a large eurozone country's budget were to become insolvent, or if that country were to leave the eurozone. of course, we don't know exactly what those effects would be, but i think the unemployment rate of well over 15% is the minimum we could fear in such a situation. moreover, it can also be considered that the very continuation of this crisis in this vague, unfinished form, will also inevitably cause, if it were to continue in this way, and of course it is doubtful whether such a state of unresolvedness of this crisis is possible, but if this situation were to continue for a year or two, then we must expect a very, very significant increase in unemployment even in the richest countries, perhaps even a doubling. poland, therefore, as a presidency and as a state, fully supports all efforts to overcome this crisis through further integration of the euro area. but we must remember that this process should not be used to create a two-speed europe. of course, we must save europe at all costs, but we should only do what is necessary within the framework of the 17 to save the euro area and therefore to save europe, because let us not be fooled, if the euro area were to collapse, europe would not survive for long after such a shock with all its dramatic political consequences. that is why i would like to end by calling for the swift adoption of the six-pack of laws. the differences between parliament and the council are now really minimal. we need to send a clear signal that we are able to work together and quickly bring the six-pack of legislation to a close. i'll end with a personal anecdote. last week at the airport, i met a colleague who worked with me in the early years of poland's transformation in the ministry of finance. today he's the president of a big polish bank. we were talking about the eurozone crisis. he said, "you know, after such economic, political upheavals, it's rare that after 10 years there's not also a war disaster. i'm seriously considering getting my kids a green card in the united states. ladies and gentlemen, the house! we can't let that happen.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome this opportunity to debate the measures that are urgently needed to respond to the turmoil in the euro area and on the global markets. we are confronted with the most serious challenge of a generation. this is a fight for the jobs and prosperity of families in all our member states. this is a fight for the economic and political future of europe. this is a fight for what europe represents in the world. this is a fight for european integration itself. we must acknowledge the reality. our citizens, the markets and our partners in the world have not yet been convinced that we are capable of taking on that fight and winning it decisively. in the cacophony of criticisms, counter-criticisms, magic bullets and miracle panaceas that are proposed on a daily basis the truth has been drowned out – that solid, visible, concrete proposals have been made. they have been agreed upon but they have taken too long and have not yet been fully delivered. so my first concern is implementation of what we agreed. that is why it is now imperative that we demonstrate our joint resolve to act upon our decisions without delay. now is the time to prove our full commitment to the principles of solidarity and responsibility. all euro area member states have made commitments and are making efforts to put in order their public finances and to implement economic reforms that are indeed a precondition for growth. all of these member states must now demonstrate in a convincing way that they are serious. it is not enough to make plans. it is action that counts and those euro area member states that are providing the assistance so crucial for the survival and stability of the euro must also clearly show that they are determined to deliver support to countries that implement their programmes, as they have agreed. they must acknowledge that this is also to their advantage. supporting the euro is not just an act of solidarity towards others. it is an act of self-interest. none of this is easy and we in the european institutions must recognise that. we must make the case and persuade our citizens why they should give their support. national politicians need to do much more to explain the benefits that the euro brings and we in the european institutions have a special role to play. we must do more together to make the case and i count on you to do so in your countries as well. reassurance for our citizens, for investors and for our world partners can only come from the conviction that a comprehensive approach is being delivered in the short, medium and long term. so what is needed now in the short term? first of all, the implementation of the package agreed on 21 july 2011 by all euro area heads of state and government, the president of the european commission and the president of the european central bank in the presence of the imf. it is an important package which includes measures to increase the flexibility and effectiveness of the efsf that will help to ensure financial stability. it foresees lowering lending rates, extending the maturities and allowing the facility to do more than intervene only in a precautionary way, by allowing it to intervene on the secondary markets. these decisions are important but they have not yet been implemented. the obstacles raised by some in implementing the crucial decisions already in the days and weeks following the meeting exacerbated the extraordinary developments in the sovereign bond markets during august. of course, the fact there were also difficult moments on the other side of the atlantic, creating doubts regarding the situation of the united states of america, was also a major factor aggravating the general very negative investor sentiment. this also reflected an unabated concern among investors that the euro area is incapable of responding effectively to its own crisis, because it takes too long to enact its own decisions. we have to recognise that sometimes there is a real problem between the speed of the markets and the time we take to make democratic decisions. markets are impatient and democracies are usually slower. the commission worked tirelessly through the summer to support the work necessary to implement the decisions. both commissioner rehn and i came to brussels to drive this work forward. therefore i expect all euro area member states to make good on their promises and urge them to ratify the 21 july agreement by the end of september. last weekend, the greek government took significant steps to deliver on their commitments. i urge greece to finalise these efforts together with the troika. the perspective of recovery and growth should be made a national cause. another urgent priority is the six-pack on reinforced economic governance. i talked about the delivery gap. it is now almost one year since the commission put forward ambitious proposals to strengthen governance of euro area economies. after all the talk, we are now very close to what the commission originally put on the table. the european parliament has played a decisive role in keeping the level of ambition of these proposals. i salute you for that. i would now ask the co-legislators to adopt this package as a matter of urgency. part of the leadership we must provide means being honest with our citizens that we are also addressing the structural problems europe faces. the crisis that we are facing is the result of competitiveness problems. within the european union – and also within the euro area – some member states have been lagging behind others, which has led to greater imbalances. the same types of imbalances have also built up worldwide. this has resulted in an accumulation of debts and deficits that are simply not sustainable and have been further aggravated by the financial crisis. to tackle the crisis, we must correct the excessive deficits and debts in a determined and sustainable way. this is the only way to create a union of stability and growth and it can only be done convincingly through the community method. we have a duty to learn the lessons of the crisis and to focus on the creation of growth and jobs. at the top of the agenda is the need to build a strong economy and not to use fiscal or monetary stimulus to live beyond our means. we must look at the reforms needed to correct these imbalances so as to create growth and jobs for the future. growth is key. we must use all instruments available to promote growth. in the european union we have some instruments, from the agenda 2020 to the single market act, to promote sustainable growth. europe needs to reform to deliver the good jobs, the better healthcare and the comfortable retirement that all europeans aspire to. the purpose of reform is to strengthen our social market economy; to deliver a fair society where everyone has a chance in life and nobody is left behind; and to equip all europeans with the skills, talents and opportunities to prosper in the global economy. our impulse for reform must go hand-in-hand with our sense of fairness and social equity. a sound economy also means we need sound financial markets. they have to return to their original function of a service industry for the real economy. the development of their profits must reflect the real economy. we have presented a whole series of proposals to this end, including those on short-selling and over-the-counter derivatives. in the next weeks we will go further with proposals to tackle insider trading and market manipulation, among others, as well as measures to address concerns over credit rating agencies. as i promised, the european commission will also very soon propose a financial transaction tax. when it comes to the governance of the euro area, i am convinced we need deeper and more results-driven integration, and let me be clear: this has to be within the community system. a system based purely on intergovernmental cooperation has not worked in the past and will not work in the future. (applause) after all, this is why the community method and the eu institutions were created by the member states in the first place. the economic and monetary union cannot function properly only on the basis of decisions taken by unanimity, because if a eurosceptic fringe can determine the position of one member state and if one member state can block decisions, the result is that we are not credible. this is not about institutional positioning or power. it is about efficiency and delivery. market investors will trust us only when we can show that we are able to deliver on our commitments and in a real determined way. moreover, the independent work of the european institutions further strengthens the credibility of our economic and budgetary policies. it is only through the european institutions that the european interest of all euro area member states will be counted. it is only through the european institutions that we will avoid a fragmentation of the single market and a disconnect between the 17 members of the euro area and the european project of the 27 countries that are the european union. we must keep the euro united and we must keep the euro open. if we want to ensure democratic legitimacy for decisions taken at european level, full unequivocal respect for the role of this house is crucial. if we want european citizens to take ownership of european integration, re-nationalising euro area decisions is not the way to do it. we, the european commission and the european parliament, are the community institutions par excellence. and it is our duty to defend the collective european interest jointly. we must show that the community actors are strong, united and able to deliver. delivering also means that we need a better spirit of partnership and confidence between us – the european institutions – and the member states, their governments and national parliaments. honourable members, the signal i receive time and time again from our global partners, including in the g20, is that the world expects a more integrated europe. in the age of globalisation everybody expects europe to be stronger and united. we are a valued partner in global fora and debates and we have a significant influence on global issues such as trade and climate change because in those matters we are able to act together, united. but the fact is that our way of taking and implementing decisions in the economic and monetary union is consigning us to punching below our weight. only by acting together and maximising the benefits of our interdependence will europe reach its true potential and be able to act as more than the sum of its parts. the conclusion i draw is crystal clear: the right way to stop the negative cycle and to strengthen the euro is to deepen integration, namely within the euro area, based on the community method. this is the way to go. (mixed reactions) it is also the way for the euro area to really play the role that investors and global partners expect it to play. what we need now is a new, unifying impulse: un nouveau moment fédérateur – let us not be afraid of the word – un moment fédérateur is indispensable. honourable members, the road to recovery is long and it is painful for millions of our citizens and businesses, but it will not be made less painful by continued procrastination or by presenting as quick fixes ideas that will necessarily take time. it has become clear that we need an even greater integration of our economic and budgetary policies. there has been much debate on the need for eurobonds. today i want to confirm that the commission will soon present options for the introduction of eurobonds. some of these options could be implemented within the terms of the current treaty, others would require treaty change. but we must be honest: this will not bring an immediate solution for all the problems we face, and it will be one element of a comprehensive approach to further economic and political integration. let us not confuse these projects for deeper integration with immediate necessities. ideas that would require substantial treaty change are not going to be a substitute for greece doing its homework or for euro area countries strengthening their fiscal surveillance. we must avoid compounding the dissatisfaction in public opinion by being seen as failing to deliver overnight what we already know takes time. what we need now is for greece to fully carry out its reform programme; for the six-pack to be adopted; and for member states to ratify the july 21 agreements. what would be our credibility on deeper integration if we could not deliver the six-pack or the 21 july agreement? only by proving ourselves in this way can we regain the market and public confidence necessary to even aspire to longer-term goals, to a more ambitious euro area and to a stronger europe. the commission will continue to play its role to the full, putting the key proposals on the table that shape both the immediate and the long-term response: proposals that are ambitious, that should reflect the interests of all. what both the citizens and the investors want is political determination and economic discipline. to deliver this, we need more, not less, europe. deeper integration is part of the solution. it will happen – not overnight – but in a solid, democratic process with the participation of this parliament. i believe that with courage and wisdom the european union will – as was always the case in the past – come out of the crisis stronger. it is certainly our duty to work for that purpose. (applause)
the speaker asks a question to mr joseph daul by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. in these big projects, i'd like to ask a question about something concrete. that is the question i wanted to ask president daul at the outset, but i have not been able to get through to the bureau. the commission has repeatedly stressed the need to harmonize the taxation of companies. i would like to ask whether they are specifically referring to the harmonization of the rate of corporation tax in the european union. i would also like to ask whether they do not think that such harmonisation of the corporate tax rate means an increase in the corporate tax rate in some of the countries of the european union which are developing more rapidly today, partly because of tax competitiveness.
in writing. everyone in europe is aware that the eu is at a turning point in history. the debt crisis is not only a threat to national economies, but has also exposed the weakness of the eu's institutional architecture. in this context, the community must act effectively on two fronts - institutional and economic. the crisis exposed the weakness of the multi-stakeholder crisis management system. it is difficult to identify clearly who makes decisions and who is responsible for them. the result is a multitude of conflicting messages. it seems that effective governance is only possible today at community level, because only this strategy will prevent the union from fragmenting or, in the worst case, from becoming a 'two-speed europe'. institutional reform would help to rebuild the credibility of the community institutions and restore confidence in the integration process. in the context of national economies, we talk a lot in the european parliament about debt. but we must remember that debt is not only the cause of the crisis, it is also the consequence. the debt increase is not dangerous as long as it is accompanied by economic growth. if it were not for the lack of competitiveness, which is reflected in the persistently weak economic growth of some countries, no one would be talking about a crisis today. what we need are reforms that allow for debt reduction, but also reforms that provide long-term financing for growth. stability of public finances is not enough in the long term, we need sustainable economic growth.
the president of the council in office. - mr president! - what are you doing? high isbo! thank you very much for this very brief debate on the 2012 draft budget. i would like to highlight just a few of the important elements of the council's position. first, the council does not question the priorities of the european union. please note that, as regards the expenditure for the europe 2020 agenda, the council has not reduced the appropriations foreseen as commitment appropriations in any way. secondly, the cuts proposed by the council are not the result of its short-sightedness, nor are they the result of member states' lack of awareness of the challenges facing the european union. they are mainly due to the very difficult budgetary situation of the member states and the need to find a balance, that level, the lowest level of resources that is necessary to finance all the priorities of the european union. we must be aware that for many member states it is very difficult to find an extra 100 or 200 million euro in their national budgets at the moment. they have a large deficit and they have problems with debt financing on the market, so these are not imaginary problems that overshadow the whole discussion of the eu budget. i hope that this year we will be able to have a budget debate focused on the 2012 budget problem, that we will all learn from the previous debate that took place last year, from all the bad elements that appeared there, that this time we will avoid it. i look forward to working with commissioner lewandowski, and i hope that the european commission will, as always, play the role of an honest mediator and suggest solutions to all parties that are good for the european union as a whole. thank you so much!
we are therefore closing the agenda item. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. we are all aware of the financial difficulties facing europe and the importance of a rational use of european funds. however, we must be mindful of the responsibility for decisions made in the past and strategically choose areas of savings. i am afraid that the cuts proposed by the council in payments in areas such as lifelong learning, youth mobility, support for small and mediumsized enterprises, can only bring about apparent savings. as a result, we risk not achieving the strategic objectives that europe has set itself. i am also concerned about the proposed budget cuts to the agencies, which run counter to the increased powers of some of them, such as fronex, and do not guarantee them sufficient resources to meet their new tasks.
the next item is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
please explain to us exactly what the oral amendment is. i understand you'd like to...
would anyone like to stand up and protest this amendment? (more than 40 members were elected) the oral amendment was not accepted.
ladies and gentlemen! it's a few minutes past 12:00. i'm suspending the vote for a few minutes to honor the victims of the massacre in norway. this tragedy happened in july, almost in front of our eyes. let me say a few words to you first. i'm here to make a statement, so you can take your seats for now. fellow workers! we're talking about a very serious matter that has affected all of us. on 22 july, europe was again the victim of a terrorist attack. in norway, a cold-blooded killer murdered 79 people, most of them very young. xenophobia and hatred showed their worst - and deadliest - faces that day. the killer of utoya and oslo struck at the core values of the foundations of our democratic society, at the hearts of people, mostly young people, who dreamed of a future, including public service. these cowardly attacks deserve the utmost condemnation. the events of july 22 showed that terrorism is not necessarily an external threat, as was the case on september 11, 2001, in the united states. the fanatic turned out to be a member of the same community that was so brutally attacked. it's important that we learn the right lessons from each of these tragic events. first, we must do everything we can to integrate ourselves internally, so that the people who live with us, in our community, wherever in europe or the world, also feel the satisfaction of sharing their presence with us. we also need to work with all the countries that are fighting terrorism. this is a big job for all of us. in the age of the internet and globalization, terrorism knows no borders. norway the country that awards the nobel peace prize has been so ruthlessly and painfully compromised. but terrorism will never change our value system. the most important thing is that the value system that we will protect and nurture is based on openness, tolerance and respect for the other person, for every member of our community. i would like to express on behalf of the european parliament our great solidarity with the norwegian people and the norwegian authorities. i also extend my deepest sympathy to the families and loved ones of the victims. we are still with you today in our thoughts, prayers and affections. two months after the tragedy, we don't change our minds about you.
member of the commission. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened on 22 july in norway was a horrible tragedy; a brutality hard to imagine, the worst of nightmares. on the beautiful island of utoya that nightmare became a reality. eight people died in the terror attack on the government area in oslo that day; that was the attack of one man. later that day he brutally, cold-bloodedly shot 70 teenagers while disguised as a policeman. a policeman who in norway and in many other countries is a symbol of safety and protection. our thoughts are of course with the families, relatives and friends of the victims and of all the norwegian people. but we are all concerned by this attack because it was an attack on democracy, on the democratic institutions, on our values and on our ideals. it was an attack on young people preparing to take an active part in public life in party politics. this event brought to light the dangers of right-wing extremism because the ideas of a sick man are nurtured today by xenophobia, extremism, attacks against multiculturalism, populism, etc. this ideology of hatred we must all fight. the norwegian people have handled their grief in a dignified and determined way. i think we have all been impressed by the firm commitment of the norwegian people to stand up for democracy, openness and our common values. in that determination we must all join them. (applause)
let us now observe a minute’s silence in commemoration and honour of those who died, murdered in july in norway. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)
ladies and gentlemen! we are in a mood of great sadness. i'd ask that we not bring up any personal matters right now. we're all in a very serious mood.
the next item is the continuation of the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
sir! sir! what are you doing? this is a substantive discussion, and it's not in accordance with the rules.
sir, my friend! i agree with you. you've given your statement. thank you, lord. we're taking your word for it.
under article 151 you are not allowed to speak on the merits of the case. i understand you've made the most important part of your statement, and we thank you. thank you for coming out!
mr. chairman, please! i have decided to support this report because it has a significant impact on the level of energy prices and in particular on the budget of individual consumers. however, it should be noted that the best way to price is healthy competition, and above all competition on the market for suppliers of raw materials for energy production. the lack of diversification of the supply of raw materials, and in particular of gas, narrows and limits the control of energy producers and their ability to influence prices. this is the case in post-communist countries, which remain under the gas domination of russia. and the construction of the northern gas pipeline is only making that worse. if there is no proper diversification, the newly created control agency will have no choice but to serve gazprom's interests.
mr. chairman, please! unfair practices in energy markets have a significant impact on high price levels and, consequently, on the material situation of final customers, i.e. citizens and businesses. they also reduce the confidence of potential investors. the provisions of the regulation should, in my view, make it possible to eliminate abuse and manipulation in wholesale energy products. i agree with the need to prohibit the use of inside information to market on one's own account. i also think that the unification of sanctions in the context of price manipulation is very positive. under the direction of the recently established agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, transactions in the marketing of energy products are becoming more transparent. the system of cooperation between the agency and national regulatory authorities provided for in the regulation improves the procedures for detecting and eliminating infringements of union law and fraud. i hope that the new rules will improve the stability of wholesale energy markets, which is why i support this motion for a resolution.
well, i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. i too - and i think all our colleagues - supported the report on public access to documents. it is one of the rights of union citizens which derive directly from the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. however, i would like to point out that the classification of documents as public, confidential or secret documents has a very important impact on the practical application of the right to the public disclosure of documents. the member states of the union very often go beyond this qualification. i would therefore ask the commission and the council to work together in the union on common rules for the qualification of documents, because i believe that this will have a fundamental impact on whether it is a law on paper or whether citizens will be able to apply it in practice. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! my group in the ecr is in favour of greater transparency in the european institutions and of the widest possible access to documents. transparency is a general principle and one of the fundamental rights of union citizens. it is also an excellent instrument for its control, in conjunction with the right to good administration. documents relating to international agreements should also be made available to the public. i therefore support the call for the eu institutions to develop clear rules establishing freedom of information based on the latest case law and treaties. the internet broadcasts of parliament's proceedings, both at plenary level and at committee level, are a good practice. any restriction on access to documents at the stage of their preparation may be considered as a manifestation of blocking public information. as representatives of the public, we must take a leading role in promoting openness and transparency in work. that is why i support this resolution.
it is difficult to agree with all the assumptions of the report presented, which in times of crisis can have a destructive effect on european union enterprises. under the kyoto protocol, individual countries have committed to reducing non-co2 greenhouse gas emissions, and this process is being implemented. but in many countries, factories emit excessive amounts of toxic gases that are extremely harmful to health. under the guise of reducing co2, they emit gases that are harmful to humans and animals. the fight against such practices should become a priority for the european union and such actions should be supported.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i consider that the application submitted by austria qualifies, according to the criteria laid down in the egf regulation, for a grant of eur 1 221 128. the case of at&s in this context is directly linked to the worldwide trend towards mass production in economies with lower production costs, such as asian countries, and i therefore consider that the austrian request is fully justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the decision to lay off more than a thousand people in less than nine months was unforeseen and closely correlated with the global crisis causing a sharp drop in demand for metals, which in particular hit austrian exports of this material. i therefore consider that austria's request is fully justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that there is a need for continuous technical assistance to enable all measures to be taken to speed up and improve the implementation of the egf in each member state. it is necessary to plan, monitor and control the newly created aid instruments and cash flows on a continuous basis. the commission's own-initiative request for technical assistance is fully reasoned.
in writing. − the main objective of this regulation is to organise the european energy market in such a way that its integrity and transparency will exclude the monopolistic or oligopolistic tendencies of large energy corporations. they lead to a disincentive to innovative energy-efficient solutions, which may have a negative impact on the situation of the final customer. this is to prevent speculative activities and to avoid, among other things, the risks that arise from abuses, especially in the derivatives market. the possibility of speculative declaration of the need to purchase energy should be limited where it cannot be immediately taken over and transferred and where there is no financial possibility to carry out this transaction. the transparency of the energy market also requires full information on actual prices, which is a sine qua non for fair play. the regulation does not include new forms of energy trading, such as capacity payment, which would prevent speculation. the costs of transporting the energy are not taken into account in the pricing of the energy (nodal pricing), which makes the total costs inappropriate. the data, even the so-called sensitive ones, should also be made available to selected scientific institutes for independent analysis. for these reasons, and considering that this regulation needs to be improved, i abstained.
in writing. - we all know how important energy security is nowadays, how important constant, preferably independent and reliable access to energy is. oil, coal and gas markets are linked to the electricity market and are vulnerable to abuse and manipulation. the legislative changes should address the issues that are currently of great concern, address the problems that distort fair competition in the single european market in this sector and remove the obstacles that stand in the way of new, small, newly-entered companies without imposing excessive licensing requirements. we need to ensure that the energy sector and the markets associated with it are characterised by the transparency and integrity that this report seeks to achieve.
in writing. − on 14 september 2011, a vote was held on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on energy market integrity and transparency, which i supported. in my view, a sectoral approach to the energy market is needed, which requires different regulatory cells, while maintaining principles consistent with financial market regulations. i believe that wholesale energy markets should be made more transparent by introducing a register of market participants. unfair practices affect the level of energy prices. market participants should report data on their (wholesale) transactions to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. in addition, the national control authorities should cooperate with the agency.
in writing. − the new eu regulation on energy market transparency and cohesion, which includes monitoring wholesale trade, protecting wholesale end-users and imposing financial penalties on infringers, is an important step towards the establishment of an eu energy market. the new rules are good news for the eu as a whole and for each member state individually, as the regulation provides legal sanction for greater transparency in the functioning of the eu market. this is part of the requirement to ensure energy security not only for poland but also for all member states. this is important because regular energy supplies, carried out in a transparent and corruption-free manner on the european market, are of vital importance to our economy, which would not be able to function properly without adequate energy supplies. the added value of this document is the potential benefit for ordinary consumers, the new rules of the game in the energy market mean more competition between energy suppliers, which in turn should translate into lower purchase prices.
in writing. - clear rules of the game in the energy market mean more competition and lower prices, and that is good news for consumers. removing barriers, removing regulatory disparities, in short, deepening the eu's single market, including energy, is the answer to today's crisis. this is the position of the ep and the programme of the polish presidency. this is also good news for poland, because the regulation means more transparency on the eu market, which, as we know, is occupied by many companies, for example, russian companies, including gazprom. they'll have to adapt to the new rules, too.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the rules for interviewing commissioners-designate need to be changed, both at organisational and political level. i believe that the proposed changes are sufficient to introduce an improved and transparent procedure.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament's committee on petitions, i am well aware of the many problems facing europeans that cannot be solved at local and national level. so they come to us for help. not all petitions that come to us fall within the remit of the european institutions. we can't help you in every case. but because of our constant contact with petitioners, we are the committee that is most closely involved with ordinary, everyday issues. it is very important that we should not forget what europeans are going through on a daily basis when we are dealing with big ideas, with far-reaching strategies.
in writing. - homelessness affects people in all eu member states. but it turns out that we're still not doing enough to prevent it. i fully support the design of this strategy. i just hope that it will not be another one of the many documents we have adopted and that, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, we will be able to lift at least 20 million people out of poverty by 2020.
in writing. − on 14 september 2011, a vote was held in strasbourg to adopt a resolution on a european union strategy to tackle homelessness. i believe that homelessness and the social problems of the poor are important issues to which the union should devote more attention. the right to decent living conditions is a right guaranteed by, among others, the charter of fundamental rights, and therefore appropriate measures should be taken to prevent homelessness in the countries of the european union. homelessness is one of the most serious forms of poverty and deprivation and has increased in recent years in many member states. the resolution calls on member states to achieve the goal of ending street homelessness by 2015. an ambitious, integrated eu strategy to tackle homelessness, based on national and regional strategies, should also be developed, with the long-term objective of ending homelessness as part of a broader strategy for social inclusion. i think that there should be a way to monitor the progress of the fight against homelessness, which would certainly help to fight it. these arguments led me to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! homelessness is a widespread problem, not only in europe but also worldwide. last december, the european parliament adopted a written declaration on an eu strategy to tackle homelessness to support member states in developing effective national strategies in line with, inter alia, the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that we should have an active programme to combat poverty and social exclusion and, above all, to support actions to identify effective solutions to the problem of homelessness. the eu's strategy to tackle homelessness supports these actions, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the call for an eu strategy to tackle homelessness. homelessness is a problem today that affects all countries of the union and therefore needs to be addressed internationally. only coordinated action at all levels - local, regional, national and international - can make progress in tackling homelessness. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the binding character of the charter of fundamental rights, the union and the member states are to respect 'the right to social and housing assistance to ensure, in accordance with the principles laid down by union law and national laws and practices, a decent existence for all those who lack sufficient resources' (article 34 (3)). the european year against poverty and social exclusion is therefore a time for concrete action. we need both local and regional strategies to combat poverty and a common 'catalogue' for the exchange of best practice at international level. the eu's strategy to tackle homelessness should focus on promoting high quality services for homeless people. it should cover urban planning, housing and social policy.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. given the post-revolutionary situation in libya, i think that the first thing to be emphasized is the need for the european union to take a common position. it was painful when we felt that we were not speaking with one voice. when we speak with one voice as the european union, our voice is heard, clear and unambiguous. today, we need a very clear signal not only to libya, but also to other countries that have gained freedom as a result of the revolution. but we're really talking about the societies of those countries. i am very worried that our interest will end only in this very important period of transformation, which concerns the preparation of free elections, the preparation of all forces for these elections. it takes a lot of work and a lot of support from all the countries of the european union to send a clear signal to these countries that we know how to help them and that we are showing them the path that many countries in the world have successfully taken. but this tactical action should not be the end of it. when we think about what is happening in north africa, let us remember the young people who stood in the squares and those who demanded freedom because they did not see the possibility of linking their individual destiny with the destiny of their country, because they felt that they were not needed. so my point is that we should remember these long-term programs that are not just about humanitarian issues, not just about water issues. let us make it clear, also in the context of the southern partnership, that these programmes must also address the issue of education and universities, the issue of opportunities, so that those people who protested and risked their lives do not feel bitter after 10-20 years that they risked something and their lives have not changed. today too, as the european union, we are responsible for the hopes and aspirations of the people who have won freedom in north africa.
in writing. europe's role in the political and military stabilisation of libya is crucial, and the nature of our engagement is also a test for the new tools we have at our disposal following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. strong diplomatic engagement and financial support are the foundations that are expected of us, but it is worth asking what our action on the ground might look like. many would like to see a csdp mission in libya, but there is no consensus on its nature and certainly no mandate that would risk direct combat. at this stage, therefore, the most important thing is to have a constructive discussion and decision on eu engagement in the field, which would complement the un's existing and planned activities. libya in the post-conflict phase will need many reforms, including those in which the union undoubtedly has a lot of experience, such as security sector reform. but for the eu's engagement in libya to be effective, coordination is needed, from the very diplomatic front - where ashton works with the presidency - to the structures responsible for preparing the mission. but what is needed above all is the will of the member states, because the lack of it will be the greatest threat to our credibility in libya.
mr commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. indeed, as my colleagues have said, the takeover by bashar al-assad was accompanied by a lot of hope. many diplomats, many politicians around the world thought that if this power in syria was taken over by a young, british-educated doctor, that he would lead the country towards reform. i would like to make a personal reminder: two and a half years ago, i had the pleasure of chairing a delegation of the foreign affairs committee of the polish sejm and, during a meeting with president assad, we asked him whether after economic reforms, the time would come for political reforms, for state reforms. president assad's response was, "there is no need. there's no need for that. the syrians haven't gotten to that yet. today we see how wrong mr. assad was, today tens of thousands of syrians in the streets are showing that they want a free state, that they want democracy, that they want to live in a normal country. we must support these efforts and that is why i welcome the european union's efforts and the cooperation with the united states. we must, of course, step up our efforts to convince russia, to convince china, and to get a security council resolution.
madam president! it should be clearly stated that you were already - i think it would be appropriate to say - president assad joined the ranks of previous graduates of outstanding european universities who failed, with whom we had high hopes - obviously ardent. and that should be a conclusion for the future, because those who say that for many years we were deceived, we were hoping for reforms in syria related to president assad, which were burning, are right. and you have to be aware of the consequences in the future. i would like to assure the decision-makers, mrs ashton and the commission that we will draw lessons from this in the future for other countries with which we have normal relations today and which are not democratizing either. first, we must democratize, not just pursue economic relations. these processes must be parallel.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe is expected to have a political presence, financial support and development in the middle east. it's obvious. but too often we forget that the issue of religious freedom for all minorities in the region requires special attention from the european union in particular. i would point out that particular sensitivity is particularly needed where there are major political upheavals. the most persecuted group, of course, are the christians, who have lived there for hundreds, sometimes thousands of years, and yet the radical part of islam wants to remove them from society. for example, in iraq, christians are not allowed to run schools, build churches, or publish books. they're second-class citizens in their own country. it's a program of religious cleansing that's been going on throughout the region and has been imposed by the radicals. religious freedom is interpreted throughout the region as the freedom to worship in secluded places, in accordance with sharia law. this is not in line with the international law's understanding of religious freedom, which includes freedom of conversion, the building of temples, and the pursuit of publishing and educational activities. i ask that our diplomacy keep the issue of religious freedom for christians in the middle east, not excluding the places we're talking about today, in mind in all the activities we undertake in that region of the world.
nobody in this room is questioning the palestinians' right to have their own state. no one in this room is questioning the dignity of this nation. we are here to debate whether unilateral recognition of membership in the united nations will bring us closer to peace or not. in this room, let's ask ourselves, what kind of palestine is actually going to be sanctioned by the un - the cooperative one represented by abbas in the west bank or the one represented by hamas in the gaza strip? - in the gaza strip, which israel unilaterally withdrew from and which is today the source of rocket attacks. in this room, when we think about how to help solve a difficult problem, a hopeless problem, how to build peace, let's not commit the worst sin that you can commit in politics, the sin of naivety. my predecessors said, "something has to be done, something has to be done". it must be well-grounded in reality, and no unilateral solution will bring the palestinians any closer to having a state of their own, or to the peace that israel also wants.
mr. chairman, please! when we talk about the middle east problem, the palestinian-israeli relationship, we talk about three very important problems and values. first, the right of the palestinians to self-determination. second, the right of israel to security. thirdly, the maintenance of lasting peace, which is a key interest of the european union. in this context we should consider all the decisions that will be taken, including the request that has been submitted to the un by palestine. in short, will this proposal and the way it is implemented bring peace? i am deeply convinced that the palestinians have the right to self-determination and that the process of creating a palestinian state should be closely linked to peace talks, to talks that build good neighbourly relations, very close cooperation with israel. it is extremely important that this is not just an act of statehood, which does not really solve the problem, but that the european union is very strongly involved, that this act is linked to the success of the talks with israel and is conditional on it.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. my dear colleagues! we have already spoken a lot about the un resolution on the recognition of a palestinian state, which is likely to be adopted in the near future, but i agree with those of my colleagues who say that unfortunately this will not bring us any closer to solving the overall problem of peace in the middle east. this is a problem that great politicians, great diplomats have tried to solve, but to no avail. the only solution to this problem is, of course, the success of the peace talks. i realize, and we all realize, that these talks are difficult because of the external conditions and because of the internal situation in palestine and perhaps even more complicated internal situation in israel. it is not possible to hold these bilateral talks today, but i think the quartet is the forum to be reckoned with and in which the european union should give its full support to and participate in these talks.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this morning, the polish finance minister, speaking in this house on the eurozone crisis, presented in his exalted speech a vision of the war that the crisis in europe could lead to. he did so to the astonishment and dismay of many of the members in the chamber. these ill-considered words require an apology from me as the polish mep. it would be better if the minister of finance, instead of talking about war and raising the possibility of a vision that could cause fear, presented concrete proposals to improve the situation in the euro area, or supported the fight against corruption. when i was the attorney general in the previous government, we took a number of actions to fight corruption. we have shown great determination. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of minister rostowski's government. you don't have that determination anymore. but the people who are being prosecuted are the people, the officials who have been fighting corruption. i welcome the initiative of the european commission to reduce corruption. but this can only be done if there is a clear determination in the individual countries to actually reduce the disease. (the speaker agreed to answer the question asked under the blue card rule under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i want to ask mr ziobro whether he thinks that this debate is just continuing the election debate that is currently going on in poland. that national debate does not have much to do with the report and the commission’s efforts. i do not think it is very proper to bring up the euro crisis in this debate.
i thank the honourable member for this question, but we all know very well that the debate here concerns a very important problem, namely corruption, just as the debate in the european parliament earlier today concerned an equally important issue, namely the crisis in the euro area, and that is why we should have expected - and i think we all expect - substantive speeches here and there: not about war, not about terror, but about concrete proposals to solve the crisis in the euro area. we must also do everything we can to curb the pathology of corruption, which is causing so much harm in europe, including in poland. and i hope that we can act in solidarity here, by showing determination, by being consistent, and not just saying empty words.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. corruption must be tackled at many levels simultaneously at european, national and local level. that is why the commission's declaration is so important that it will accelerate the fight against corruption. i am very pleased that the commission has presented an anti-corruption package, especially as it emphasises the monitoring of this phenomenon and, above all, the proper implementation of the legal instruments already in place. as we know, one of the problems of the european union is that we do not fully implement european law. but at the same time, which i think is very important, we shouldn't even stop there. we need new instruments and policies that will continue to fight corruption. we did that today in this house, voting for the energy market regulation. the aim of these regulations was to increase transparency and accountability, which are key to fighting corruption in the energy market. i want to emphasise that we must also fight corruption in sectoral policies, and not just talk in general about introducing certain tools. this is possible, as we see in the commission's case.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the commissioner for the information today, but also for the european commission's quick response, for the fact that commissioners georgieva and piebalgs were still in the region in august. the representative of the polish presidency, minister stanowski, was also there. it seems that the european institutions have reacted correctly and quickly enough. sadly, it can be said that this is one of the most dramatic humanitarian crises to have hit our planet in recent years. the famine is spreading to new areas, so all the indications are that we are in the early stages of a humanitarian crisis. and we must not forget that this is not the first time this has happened in this region. in the last quarter-century, food shortages have struck the horn of africa twice. in the mid-1980s, more than a million people died of starvation in ethiopia and sudan, and in the early 1990s, at least 200,000 people died of starvation in somalia, caused by drought and civil war. unfortunately, the region is still short of two basic necessities for survival: food and water. east africans also need seeds and tools for farming and better conditions for raising livestock. congressman berman talked about that. the development of agriculture will make it possible to become independent of humanitarian aid. to meet this challenge, we need to be more effective and long-term. they should lead to the creation of conditions for the independent production of food. we need to develop better coordination between humanitarian aid and long-term development projects. this requires both time and long-term commitment on our part, and on the part of the european union and other international organisations. it's the only way we're going to be able to help this region in a sustainable way.
in writing. africa needs more eu aid. a severe drought has affected nearly 11 million people in kenya, ethiopia, somalia and djibouti. in these countries, more than three quarters of the population are employed in the agricultural sector, which accounts for only one third of sub-saharan africa's gdp. that's why every crisis on this scale involves the tragedy of millions of people. the last two years have been the driest since the 1950s. food prices, especially grain, have risen by over 240%. this increase, which has been ongoing since june 2010, has already pushed 44 million people below the poverty line. the basic needs of millions of people in this region cannot be met. lack of access to clean water, nutritious food, and health care is a daily reality for more than half of sub-saharan africans. the situation is expected to worsen further in the next three to four months. due to the very weak and late harvest, we can expect a possible improvement as early as next year. it is therefore urgent to increase both the emergency humanitarian aid to the regions in need and the long-term investments to combat the effects of drought. better use of resources and investment in infrastructure and local coordination, as well as contingency planning, including increasing grain and seed stocks and repairing water reservoirs, are important.
ladies and gentlemen! we have a very special guest in the gallery of this parliament today. wojciech jakwiec came to us from fatima and santiago de compostela on foot, as a pilgrim who is going to assisi to meet benedict xvi on october 27 and brings to all the message of peace, a reminder of the value of civilization of life, which should be - i think - remembered also by the political community. the soldier! welcome to the european parliament!
madam president! the political turmoil in syria over the past few months has been a determining factor in the international community's response. we cannot remain indifferent to the more than 2,000 deaths of civilians who have been pacified by the forces of president bashar al-assad's regime. the brutal attack on the protester's supporter, the world-renowned artist ali farzat, cannot go unchallenged either. the un experts report indicates that the regime may have committed crimes against humanity. i therefore welcome the introduction of sanctions by the eu countries against syria, including an oil embargo. i also welcome turkey's condemnation of the syrian regime and its commitment to helping refugees. the regime should be further targeted with the aim of ending the use of force against peaceful protesters. by voting in favour of the resolution, i call on the syrian authorities to implement the public commitment to democratic reforms, and the implementation of this commitment remains a priority in relations with that country.
the world radiocommunication conference is an important international forum for radio and satellite frequency regulation. the main topic of next year's conference will be the availability of radio spectrum, and in particular the digital dividend of the 800 mhz band. accelerating work on harmonisation, and thus on the earlier provision of this protected frequency to mobile operators, and on roaming regulation is one of the priorities of the polish ministry of infrastructure during the current presidency. the european union must take a consistent stance in multilateral negotiations, especially with its eastern neighbours, including russia, in order to obtain free access to the 800 mhz band throughout its territory. that is why the support and involvement of all member states is so important. other issues, such as the galileo project, also require broad support for the commission's efforts. i support the resolution, hoping for effective action by the countries and institutions of the european union.
in writing. − more concrete actions from the side of eu with the republic of moldova, based on the recognition of the efforts undertaken by the latter throughout the recent past, are of crucial importance. the signal sent by us today proves that we are open to dialogue and cooperation with a country that shows a clear will to continue as our trustworthy partner.
in writing. - we have to admit that the arab spring was a surprise to all of us. we welcome the developments in tunisia and egypt. however, not all accidents develop as they should. an example is libya, which is in the middle of a civil war. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in libya, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. − after six months of fighting in libya, which has led to the deaths of some 50,000 people and a tragic humanitarian situation and immense suffering, the gaddafi regime has collapsed and the interim government led by the national transitional council has begun work to build a new state. this marks the end of a long and enormous enslavement of the libyan people under the dictator. the process of building a democratic, human rights-respecting and prosperous libya is fully supported by the european union as a whole. these words are followed by concrete action by the union. the european parliament supports the european commission's swift response, which has allocated eur 70 million in humanitarian aid and opened a humanitarian aid office in tripoli. equally beneficial to the new authorities is the release of $15 billion in frozen libyan assets, as well as the eu's decision to lift sanctions on 28 libyan companies, including ports, oil companies and banks. the european parliament's role in this context is to call for a shift from short-term financial assistance towards long-term political and technical support, consisting of the transfer of expertise in priority areas identified by the new libyan authorities, and for the resumption of negotiations on the eu-libya framework agreement as soon as possible.
in writing. - when civil unrest erupted in tunisia and egypt, we hoped that in other countries where societies had declared their allegiance to authoritarian regimes, power would be transferred peacefully. but that's not what happened. i wanted to give my full support to the demands of the ep expressed in this resolution: calling on president bashar al-assad to resign immediately, ending the brutal repression of protesters, releasing political prisoners and human rights defenders, and holding human rights violations to account. i wanted to emphasize that syria has a chance for a peaceful transformation and a transition to a democratic system. for these reasons, i not only supported this resolution, but i was also one of the signatories.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the brutal and unjustified arrest of ales białacki is obviously causing outrage in the international community. additional concerns are raised by the unseemly involvement of polish and lithuanian law enforcement agencies in the case. in the face of such a blatant case of persecution of human rights defenders, we cannot remain idle. the events in belarus show that the belarusian regime is still far from a constructive dialogue with europe. only a firm and decisive stance by brussels towards the authorities of belarus, which is in the throes of an economic crisis, can help to improve the political situation in the country. i therefore call on president alexander lukashenko to immediately release ales białacki and all political prisoners and to clear them of all charges. i call on the belarusian authorities to respect human rights and civil liberties, including the legalization of independent civil society organizations. at the same time, i call on the european institutions and the member states to step up their efforts against the belarusian regime by increasing pressure, expanding entry bans and pursuing a firm policy towards those responsible for the arrest of ales bialiatski.
mr president, the arrest of mr ales bialatski on 4 august in minsk is another display of the poor human rights record of belarus. mr bialatski is a public human rights defender and activist. his work has made a great contribution to ensuring the rights of many citizens in his country. therefore, his detention on the grounds of financial fraud is particularly disturbing and unacceptable; not only do these charges abuse the belarusian criminal justice system, but they are also an insult to belarusian civil society in general. we must remember that mr bialatski is only one case among many others in belarus, a country which repeatedly allows the targeting and harassing of media personalities and human rights activists; this must stop. i join other colleagues in urging the belarusian government to immediately release mr bialatski and to put an immediate end to all forms of harassment against human rights defenders in the country.
mr. chairman, please! it is obviously shameful and outrageous that a man of such integrity as aleś białacki, a man who defended other persecuted people, who helped the persecuted, who helped their families, is being arrested just outside the borders of the european union. and of course we should adopt this resolution and we will probably adopt many more, but we must not be under any illusions that president lukashenko does not read our resolutions, and even if he does, he does not seem to care much about them. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international criminal law instruments. we have to tell lukashenko and his colleagues, the judges, the corrupt prosecutors, the police: we will remember their names and their names. we'll remember who's putting opposition activists in jail. one sentence of explanation, regarding the comments of colleagues about the polish authorities. well, in poland, the prosecutor general's office has provided information to the lukashenka regime, both the prosecutor's office, which is independent of the government and the parliament, and the prime minister, and all the leaders of the political parties have condemned this action of the prosecutor's office and described it as extreme stupidity.
mr president, i agree with all those condemnations. it is appalling that this human rights defender is treated as he is being treated, but it is not a problem affecting just one person. let me quote the declaration of the euronest assembly meeting which we have just held in another room here – i am co-chair of the belarus working group. the declaration speaks about ending the persecution of opposition leaders; about 700 persons who have been detained; about 24 opposition activists charged for organising mass disorder, which resulted in imprisonment, house arrest and suspended sentences. we condemn in this text the use of brute force. we urge the belarusian authorities to stop harassment, intimidation and threats against civil society. we ask the international committee to freeze assistance to the belarusian regime until the detained and arrested leaders, human rights defenders, journalists, presidential candidates and their supporters are released and cleared of all charges. what i am trying to say is that we need a change in the system and saving one person will not solve the problem. i also think that we will not resolve the situation of this person, because lukashenko is releasing some people and putting others into prison, so the true reason lies elsewhere. let me inform this assembly that the euronest assembly failed to accept this resolution, because of the opposition in general from mps from five – because the belarusians are not admitted – countries and because of the more than weak presence of our house. so we cannot speak here and vote here, but refrain from acting there.
mr. chairman, please! aleksander białacki is one of the most well-known activists among belarusian human rights defenders. what's shocking is that he was arrested, but what's also shocking is that legal international legal procedures were used to do this. this situation is a warning to the member states and shows how careful the provision of information under the legal aid mechanism should be. assistance in criminal investigations is a recognised international practice on which the cooperation of police authorities of all countries in the world is based. however, this cooperation shall not be exploited and shall not be intentionally abused. the european union should strongly oppose the manipulation of legal legal procedures to obtain information for the purpose of political persecution, as was the case with the arrest of bialiatski. as my predecessor, mp lisek, said, the prosecutors who committed this act were punished by the prosecutor general of poland. the european union must demand that the belarusian authorities ensure respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
mr. chairman, please! two issues are particularly important in the context of this resolution: the need to ensure the protection of civilians; the massive bombing is devastating, thousands of people are leaving their ruined homes, living in unimaginably difficult conditions, lacking shelter, medicine, running out of food. this is a crime against humanity that must be stopped immediately. south kordofan is in dire need of humanitarian aid. we must support international agencies and ngos in their dialogue with the sudanese authorities to lift the restrictions that prevent them from receiving aid, including food. it is estimated that some 200,000 people are in need of urgent assistance, including 70,000 women and children. humanitarian agencies should have unlimited possibilities to provide such assistance. the presence of independent human rights monitors in south kordofan should also be ensured. thank you for your attention!
mr president, i wish to express my deep concern over the fighting in southern kordofan and blue nile state which broke out on 1 september between the sudanese armed forces and forces of the sudan people’s liberation movement. these clashes have already proven to be extremely brutal. they have resulted in the loss of too many innocent lives and in the displacement of many people. this spread of violence highlights an urgent need to supply humanitarian aid to those affected by the violence. it further highlights a need to establish, as soon as possible, negotiations between the fighting sides to ensure peace and stability. a political settlement is now absolutely vital for the country, therefore it must be insisted upon. as a member of this house, i appeal to both sides to cease hostilities by stopping all acts of violence. moreover, i call on both sides and on the international community to take all appropriate measure to ensure that all sudanese citizens are protected.
mr. chairman, please! in the next conflict, or rather the aggression of the khartoum government against south sudan, parliament's attention should be particularly focused on the extremely dramatic situation of the civilian population. he is denied access to incoming humanitarian aid, which is distributed by entities controlled by the authorities. the situation is further aggravated by the fact that the organisations responsible for delivering aid have difficulty in reaching those most in need and that basic supplies are already running out. the international community must take concrete action in response to this situation. the civilian population is not able to defend itself against the bombing. the parties responsible for the escalation of the conflict should bring peace and security to the disputed area as soon as possible, and the european union's role in this situation should be to mediate effectively in the dispute and to provide further increased humanitarian assistance.
member of the commission. − mr president, i certainly hope we are giving south sudan a chance. i would like to thank honourable members for bringing the human rights situation in sudan, especially in kordofan and blue nile state, to the fore, even if the debate has tended to focus on sudan. we must demonstrate that a war without images is not a forgotten war. the government of sudan is restricting humanitarian access to southern kordofan and blue nile state. fifty thousand civilians have fled their homes in blue nile state and 200 000 have been affected by the conflict in kordofan. access restrictions are making it very difficult to know what is happening on the ground and to bring assistance to the population in need. a few weeks ago, commissioner georgieva called for increased humanitarian access and for the united nations to be able to carry out its work in south kordofan. the same call now applies to blue nile state. despite the constraints that we have had, some assistance is being provided, in particular due to prior pre-positioning of relief items in both areas, to which the eu has largely contributed. the humanitarian budget for both sudan and south sudan is eur 100 million, and it has been topped up with an additional eur 40 million from the emergency aid reserve. this reinforcement will help to maintain relief efforts in both sudans while humanitarian needs are increasing, including in south kordofan and blue nile state. severe human rights violations are taking place. there are reports of aerial bombardments of civilian targets by the sudan armed forces, abductions of security forces, arbitrary arrests and detentions, and targeted and extra-judicial killings. these are very worrying reports. additional reports are coming in of mass graves, systematic destruction of dwellings and extensive looting. the situation is generally characterised as a disproportionate use of force and a lack of distinction between civilian and military targets. in many instances, people are targeted because of their ethnic affiliation. we are trying to defuse the situation. the eu has made a statement and declaration on the ongoing violence and urged the parties to work out a peaceful solution. the eu special representative to sudan, dame rosalind marsden, is calling on numerous interlocutors in khartoum to pass on the same message. we are also coordinating with key partners such as the african union, the united nations and the united states to ensure a common approach. we support mediation efforts carried out by president mbeki and prime minister meles. for the european union, security and stability in the border area between sudan and south sudan is a prerequisite for a peaceful and good neighbourly relationship between the two sudans, but of course neither stability nor security can be achieved without respect for human rights and democracy. (applause)
in writing. it would seem that the proclamation of a new state, the republic of south sudan, would end the bloody conflict between the northern and southern parts of the african country that has lasted for over 50 years. violence and terror have killed more than two million people and forced twice that number to flee their homes. however, fighting between the sudanese army and rebels in the blue nile province continues. that is why the united nations called a month ago for a full investigation into human rights violations and crimes against humanity. polska akcja humanitarna, which has been carrying out a mission in south sudan since august 2006, draws attention to a number of problems, including the lack of permanent access of international organisations to regions at risk of unrest. the health service in south sudan is in a state of disrepair. 75% of the population doesn't have access to basic health care. there is virtually no education system that was destroyed in the 1990s by the integration of teachers and students into the military. there is no universal access to drinking water and basic sanitation. the continuing acts of terrorism have also exacerbated the problem of migration of the south sudanese population. the tragic situation of the civilian population is exacerbated by years of fighting and ongoing ethnic conflicts. we should call on the authorities of neighbouring countries to try to resolve social, political and economic disputes together.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank commissioner malmström, chairman buzko and all those who participated in the demonstration yesterday to free david isaac. i also thank the member of parliament, olle schmidt, who organised this demonstration. it's really very important that we remember and advise prisoners of conscience. that is the purpose of the resolution we are discussing. we demand and will continue to demand freedom for the journalist, the citizen, the human being. ladies and gentlemen! in 2008, i was part of a european parliament mission that visited eritrea. we were meeting with the president of this country. before the meeting, we asked european diplomats, including swedish diplomats, if we should raise the issue of the release of david isaac. the swedish ambassador asked us not to ask because there were secret negotiations, secret talks about the release, which was supposed to happen in a few days, a dozen days. so we didn't ask the president about it, and three years later, isaac david's fate remains unknown. we'll ask for it at every opportunity.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it's hard to believe, sitting here in brussels, in comfortable armchairs, that in the 21st century there is a country in the world that is rather reminiscent of the darkest places and moments of the middle ages, and where the leader is not a modern leader, but a man who should be included in the long list of torturers of this world. i know that our resolution will not change much and the eritrean president will not care, but today, after ten years, we should symbolically show that we remember the fate of david isaac and that we will do everything possible to bring about his release. we should use diplomatic means and the means available to the european institutions or european countries, but of course we should also try to get help from other organizations and countries in the world, from the united states, from african countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for once again raising the fate of dawit isaak in public debate. the european parliament always defends human rights very strongly, and on this you have been extremely clear and are sending a very strong message. we also appreciate the letter sent by president buzek not long ago to the eritrean authorities calling for the release of dawit isaak. i would also like to salute the initiative by mr olle schmidt yesterday, where a number of parliamentarians gathered to ask for the release of dawit isaak ten years after his imprisonment. we are indeed very preoccupied by his fate and that of the other prisoners of conscience in eritrea. the commission and the external action service have repeatedly and regularly raised this matter with the eritrean authorities, both in private and publicly. on every occasion that the commissioner or an eu official meets an eritrean representative, the case of dawit is raised. his case is also raised regularly in any dialogue that we have with the eritrean authorities in the framework of our cooperation. the delegation in asmara has a constant instruction to inquire of the eritrean authorities, and any other party that might have any information, about the whereabouts and health of dawit isaak. so far, as you know, the eritrean authorities have refused to give any information. they insist that dawit isaak is an eritrean citizen. we cannot accept this position from the eritrean authorities. his treatment is a breach of universal human rights and fundamental values. the eritrean position is also in contravention of eritrea’s international obligations in the area of human rights. respect for human rights is the cornerstone of european identity and human rights and fundamental freedoms are universal and no man, no woman in this world should be deprived of them, neither in eritrea nor in the rest of the world. we do engage through development aid with the population of eritrea. this is humanitarian assistance to a starving population in a very poor country. we do this and try to find some way to engage and have dialogue with the eritrean authorities. it is becoming increasingly difficult because the eritrean government is also blocking access for ngos to get to the most vulnerable areas. ten years after the arrest of dawit isaak, he is still not free. the european union should not cease its efforts to secure his release and that of other eritrean prisoners of conscience, as well as of other prisoners of conscience elsewhere in the world. i would like to thank the european parliament for its strong commitment in this regard.
member of the commission. − mr president, in reply to mr tannock: no, i cannot answer that question. you will have to raise it with mr piebalgs.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 september 2011.
i have the following messages for you. on 22 september, the european union marked a milestone: the permanent president of the european council, herman van rompuy, addressed the 66th un general assembly for the first time on behalf of the union as a whole. this is a very important event for us. (laughter) (applause) another thing. september 21st, troy davis was executed in the united states. the punishment is inhumane and unacceptable. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our strong opposition to the death penalty. (laughter) (applause) we have repeatedly condemned the death penalty, whether it was carried out in democratic countries or in countries such as iran, where a 17-year-old boy, alireza mollah-soltani, was publicly hanged on the same day. the execution of a minor is a violation of international law. the european union has always and without exception opposed the death penalty. this kind of retaliation is not an act of justice. finally, announcements related to the current session. we have a very important plenary session ahead of us. this week we're voting on the six-pack. we know it's a big success. we have significantly improved the original proposal for these legislative solutions. this is proof that the community method plays an important role in combating the crisis. but it took a long time to negotiate this package, almost a year. the financial crisis to which the six pack refers has deepened during this time. i think we should consider creating a fast-track procedure that should shorten the current procedure. when we're dealing with such extraordinary circumstances, as legislators, we should have the tools to be able to act quickly. this is not true of all the legislative proposals, of course, but of some. i intend to hold discussions on this subject with the chairmen of the political groups and also with the chairmen of parliamentary committees, particularly those with the most legislative acts. let's see if we can work out a procedure. it's just a suggestion on my part. we also recall that president barosso will be delivering his state of the union address on wednesday. we also look forward to the presentation of the commission's annual work programme. this second performance is gonna be important. we expect legislation to come out next year - because it has to - to help us fight the crisis. they will require rapid adoption if we are to strengthen our economy, stabilise financial markets and send a signal to the european union public that we can act quickly and efficiently in accordance with the community method. i also wanted to remind you that tomorrow, for the first time, there will be a question and answer session with the president of the eurogroup, mr jean claude juncker. so far, we've had a round of questions to president barroso and vice president ashton, and so this is an extension of our way of representing voters in a situation of universal crisis. vice-president ashton will also take part in the debate on the eastern partnership summit in warsaw on 29 september. i would like to ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take part in these debates. these are indeed crucial debates and we want to - firstly - have a very serious discussion about the issues that concern our citizens, but also to show our citizens that we are interested in them and that we are actively involved in the debates. this is my big appeal. i think you're all aware of that, too.
the next item is the report by mrs marisa matias, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the green paper 'turning challenges into opportunities: a common strategic framework for eu funding for research and innovation' (2011/2107 (ini)) (a7-0302/2011)
thank you very much. thank you. i'll keep an eye on that.
since you mentioned jarosław wałęsa, our colleague who couldn't appear before us today, i wanted to tell you that i visited him in the hospital last saturday. he said he had such a deep conviction that by february, march at the latest, he would be here in the room with us in perfect health. he conveyed his best wishes to all his colleagues in the european parliament. i hereby give them to you.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur warmly for her attempt to reach a compromise. in the european parliament we are in agreement on the merger of all the eu's financial instruments for research and innovation so that they will operate in all the common strategic frameworks in the next planning periods. i agree that this will not only help to strengthen europe's international competitiveness, but will also significantly help to simplify the rules and speed up the process of obtaining grants for beneficiaries. we can also see a great disparity between member states, mainly reflected in the different levels of expenditure on research and innovation and access to scientific facilities. please note that the line of such a characteristic contrast between countries runs primarily along the countries belonging to the so-called old union and the new member states. it is in the interest of all member states to apply a common catalogue of administrative, financial, organisational and information procedures and to ensure harmonisation of the rules and conditions for participation in the various programmes, with a view to creating a common and transparent system within the european research area. it should also be added that the proposal to address the low representation of member states at european level by trying to exploit the potential of all the regions of the european union seems fully justified by eliminating the risks of fragmentation and reinforcing the principles of excellence with criteria such as the impact on integration, cost-effectiveness and fair remuneration. i support the need to maintain an open system of crossborder scientific cooperation, but i consider the budget for the framework programme to be an open debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: tourism is a springboard for the economy of many countries, including, of course, the country of your rapporteur, including the country of your commissioner. i think it's also an opportunity for these poorer countries in the union, like my country, one of the five poorest members of the european union. i think that's something to be seen in that context, too. i would like to thank the honourable member for his excellent report. i would also like to stress that, especially in times of crisis, tourism is an opportunity - as my predecessors have said - because tourism may decline, but it may also increase in some areas, and paradoxically it is not dying. i would like to draw attention to a few specific areas or, you might say, areas of tourism that have a certain potential. first, it is ecotourism, which means visiting those parts of europe where nature has been preserved in its former form. for example, in the east of my country, there are nature reserves, special plant and animal species that are not found anywhere else. it is a europe that is not well known, but it is very important, and i think it is worth thinking about this kind of ecological, natural tourism. secondly, sports tourism, which is very important in statistics, is becoming more and more important, more and more people are travelling for sporting events and, in the process, are getting to know new countries, new regions - here i invite everyone to the next european football championship in my country, poland, next year. we'll welcome everyone with the old polish hospitality. finally, there is the question of tourism on the periphery of the european union. a lot of europeans go to the maghreb countries. and then there is the second lung of europe, eastern europe, the border of the union and countries like belarus, ukraine, eastern parts of poland - it's really a fascinating thing. finally, the agro-tourism. tourism as a bridge between countries that are in the union and countries that are coming into the union. i am glad, as commissioner tajani said, and i will end here, that parliament and the commission are on the same team on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much for allowing me to speak in this important debate. i am very pleased that our parliament has dealt with tourism in a comprehensive way, as the european commission has been doing for some time. in my country, poland, too, the tourism sector is becoming increasingly important, both socially and economically. i think it is particularly important that we promote an increasingly diversified range of offers throughout the union, and that we encourage the extension of the tourist season in the union and create the financial and legal conditions that are conducive to this. we should also be more active than ever in fighting for and promoting tourists from outside the union. i think one of the most important issues here is breaking down the visa barriers. here, more dynamic changes should take place across the union.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the direction of tourism development is a common approach at european level, while respecting the diversity of situations in the member states. the development of european tourism and its competitiveness is directed towards central and eastern europe. these are countries that have joined the european union in recent years. european funding should be provided and cultural expenditure should be increased. the new challenges facing europe are economic and tourism development and flexibility. historic industrial plants in poland and other european countries are the promotion of regions and cities, as well as the creation of new centers, historical and cultural objects. industrial buildings, including in łódź, have been converted into a modern hotel-recreation base or commercial infrastructure. the new element in tourism development is the regeneration of post-industrial areas. the creation of artificial lakes in the quarries, the construction of artificial beaches, bike paths, afforestation, the creation of parks, the conversion of mine shafts into ski slopes are examples of the use of post-industrial areas for tourism.
in writing. tourism is an economic sector that generates millions of dollars of income worldwide. europe, especially in the face of a huge crisis, cannot afford to squander such opportunities. some of europe's regions have a chance to defend themselves thanks to their attractiveness and tourist base. but there are some that, despite their great value, are not properly promoted or prepared to serve tourists. this is why infrastructure development and marketing activities to promote the project are so important. the development of agro-tourism is a great opportunity for this sector of the economy. with the right investments, it is possible to create many new jobs in the countryside and provide tourists with opportunities to enjoy nature and healthy leisure. it is also an opportunity to promote regional products, culture and traditions, as well as organic farming.
in writing. according to some projections, by 2020 the number of people aged over 65 will reach 20% of the population. this segment of the population has a potentially high purchasing power and leisure time, but at the same time requires a specialised tourism offer. the year 2012 has been designated as the european year of active ageing. this will be a special opportunity to address the needs and preferences of this age group and to promote various forms of activity and leisure activities aimed at older people. it would therefore be useful to develop a strategy and use our capabilities and potential to create an image of the european union as an attractive and high-quality holiday destination. to achieve this, we need highly qualified staff who are able to adapt to new technologies and new market expectations. the committee of the regions believes that young people, a group where unemployment is particularly acute today, play a key role in creating jobs in the tourism sector. according to the european commission, one in five young people under 25 in the eu is unemployed. i therefore believe that the idea of entrepreneurship, as well as vocational education and training, should be promoted, offering opportunities both to young people starting their careers, to those already working in the tourism sector and to those who want to improve their skills.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the tourism sector is a very important sector of the economy, generating many jobs, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. tourism is an opportunity for the development of non-industrialised regions and a significant contribution to the national budgets of the eu countries. in the report presented today, the author has identified a number of important issues that need to be addressed in order to facilitate travel for tourism purposes. this will make the sector even more profitable and the objective of promoting europe and its cultural heritage will be fully achieved. the integration of activities to promote and develop tourism infrastructure through enhanced cooperation at national, regional and local level and cross-border cooperation, while coordinating with other directly related sectors, is of the utmost importance. in the virtual area, the potential of the www.visiteurope.com portal should be extended and maximised and ticketing systems for different modes of transport should be integrated so as to avoid unnecessary difficulties in crossing borders, in particular by rail. the harmonisation of the classification of accommodation throughout the union and the promotion and sale of holiday packages during major sporting and cultural events will also be a major facilitator. but we cannot forget about accidents like the one in iceland and the need for crisis management scenarios to be developed so that the rights of tourist passengers are not violated in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur - he has dealt very thoroughly and comprehensively with the issue of strengthening europe's position on the world tourism map. the document was produced in a rather favourable situation - the european union, in terms of the number of people coming from outside the community, is still the most popular tourist destination in the world. but we must remember that even a dominant position requires consistent strengthening, especially in times of crisis. in my view, one of the good ideas for strengthening the european union's leading position as the world's most popular tourist destination is to promote travel to central and eastern european countries, especially in the context of the introduction of the european heritage label. for most of the second half of the 20th century, central and eastern europe was excluded from normal tourism. given the increasing competition from other tourist destinations outside the eu, and the fact that we cannot build our competitive advantage on the promotion of the same places for more than half a century, i think it is highly desirable to open up european tourism to the east, which is still little known both in the community and in the world.
madam president! the current plenary session will see a very important vote on the so-called six-pack - five regulations and one directive - which are intended to strengthen economic governance in europe in the light of the negative experience of the economic crisis. this strengthening will be achieved mainly through a thorough reform of the stability and growth pact, whose shortcomings in crisis prevention have been brutally exposed, inter alia, by the recent turmoil in the euro area. after the initial green light for the legislative package was given by the ecofin council at its meeting in wrocław, the decision on the fate of the six-pack lies in the hands of parliament. only its swift adoption will be able to calm the recently volatile financial markets and prevent another recession, which is becoming more and more real. we can't afford to have the situation we had before the holidays, when a dispute in the council prevented the package from being adopted earlier. new regulations providing for budgetary discipline in the member states and strengthening the economic stability of the union are absolutely necessary in the context of continuing economic disruption in the world.
in writing. mr president, road safety is a very important issue from the perspective of us, who travel across europe every week, both to strasbourg and to the european parliament in brussels. i think the report is right in general to point to the need to minimise the number of victims of the so-called 'vision zero' accidents. however, the report also mentions controversial solutions, such as the installation of devices that check the blood alcohol content of drivers before they start driving. i welcome the proposal to provide additional training for emergency services in the areas of accident victim assistance, harmonisation and enforcement, and the creation of road infrastructure focusing on the safety of road users and the protection of vulnerable road users. i therefore believe that we should spend more time on developing a common vision for road safety in europe, while maintaining a certain degree of rationality.
madam president! and so what we have now is that we know that in some countries, there are near-disasters that are caused by poorly equipped or not equipped. and where they're even needed, they haven't always been built. we have to realize that with this climate change, there will be temporary weather anomalies, there will be situations where it may turn out that a country will be repeatedly flooded. so it's very important for us to build very good systems. we know how to build it because dams are not water devices that we don't know. these are not new technologies. these are old, effective technologies. so it's just a matter of being able to give those countries information on how to do it.
madam president! i agree with most of what you said. what mrs băsescu said, and what mrs neveďalová, mrs matera and mrs dăncilă said - i agree with most of them and thank mr cavadze for this report. there are a few things that are valuable and worth highlighting, such as the fact that the report acknowledges the full responsibility of the member states for the organisation of their national education systems. what you said also means that the education system of european schools should make it possible to teach all subjects in the mother tongue. and that's also quite important, and it's worth pointing out and noting. my group will vote against this report, mainly because it contains some ideological language about the continuing attempt to build a common european identity, and that is precisely why the committee on the environment will vote against it. we also appreciate the things that are valuable and precious there.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, first i would like to thank mr theurer for his report and for putting this very important topic on the agenda. i think that we really need to discuss these issues in great detail because they are very important and they will be even more important in the framework of the forthcoming discussions on the details and the future of the mff. we would also like to welcome this report because we see it as a very important contribution from parliament to the debate on absorption capacity as a very important part of the commission’s policies. we are also very pleased that the report refers to absorption capacity using the broader approach to, and broader concept of, absorption which goes beyond a purely financial notion and also includes effectiveness and good management of funds. implementation of projects without jeopardising the effectiveness of resources is a very important issue which is challenging for some member states, as we could hear in this discussion. the commission believes that there exists an important common ground in the analyses of the absorption problems between parliament and the commission. the commission has shown in the current discussion its willingness to provide available absorption data, although some of these data depend on the information provided by the member states. we share the concerns in the report on the delays in absorption in some member states in particular and reasons for this, notably difficulties in adoption of compliance assessments and the parallel implementation of the programming periods of 2000, 2006, 2007 and 2013. we can say, however, that absorption has accelerated, particularly in the last year, and our latest figures show that the absorption rate stands at 29.2%. these show that the absorption of structural funds has acclerated and is currently in a good place. but judging from all the speakers we have heard this evening, i think it is quite clear that we need to learn a lesson from the current period and we need to improve the way in which the rules are set out for future spending in this area. therefore, whilst we are currently preparing the proposals for the regulation for the period 2014-2020 we are going to take all these lessons into account. these proposals, therefore, will incorporate the results of the analyses which we have just been discussing and a very important part of this will be the push and pressure for simplification of the procedures and a reduction in gold-plating, both at eu and national level. here, we very much need your support because gold-plating always occurs at the final stages of the legislative process, be it at eu level or very often at national level as well. we will also encourage the member states to boost administrative capacity and to increase the efficiency of their public administrations because, from what we can see in some of the member states, it is clear that the levels of administrative capability and capacity have direct consequences on the ability to absorb the funds efficiently and on time. we have therefore come up with the idea of improvement to the partnership and multi-level governance which, we believe, would set out the conditions for closer cooperation between the commission and the member states and will provide an essential improvement and contribute to better management of funds in the future. in reply to monika flašíková-beňová, concerning the absorption funds for roma inclusion, i would say that here, we in the commission are waiting anxiously for the national programmes and national strategies which should be sent to the commission before the end of the year and i believe that once this is done we can evaluate them and have a wide discussion on how eu funds are used in the very important issue of roma inclusion.
in writing. colleagues and colleagues. i welcomed the european commission's proposal to set a limit of 2.5% of gdp for the absorption of european funds by a country. among the member states, there are still many countries which qualify for the first convergence objective. access to eu funds will allow these regions to develop more rapidly, to flourish in innovation and thus to better cope with the recession that the whole world is now facing. the idea of concentrating funds on fewer priorities, monitoring their use more effectively and rewarding the countries and regions that best deliver on the europe 2020 objectives is also a good idea. this certainly motivates member states to make more thoughtful and effective decisions on the spending of structural and cohesion funds. i am also pleased that attention has been paid to the more effective use of the european social fund, as the funds should go to effective programmes that will help the beneficiaries of these projects to find jobs. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. it's a good thing we're doing this, because the number of natural disasters in the world has increased by 500 percent. at the same time, i would like to stress very strongly that this is not just a matter for pakistan or haiti, but also a matter for europe and the europeans who die in natural disasters, who suffer significant material losses. this initiative by the european institutions is very much needed because, let us be honest, nation states do not always cope with this problem. for example, in my country, poland, the government has failed to meet the expectations of the victims of recent natural disasters, hurricanes, both those who lost their homes and those who are entrepreneurs. this is why this initiative at union level is absolutely necessary. it is a question of real aid, ladies and gentlemen, and the victims really want real aid, not european symbols - as we have heard - to be placed where the aid is to be given, but real aid - and that will be the best advertising for the eu institutions. it is very important that we are not just talking about disaster relief here, but also about prevention, about preventing disasters, for example forest fires, but also - which is very important in the case of my country, poland - preventing floods.
madam president! on behalf of our group, i would like to thank mrs gardini for her excellent report on all the priorities. the european disaster response capacity will help to increase the sense of security of the citizens of the european union, but it also has a great task in the international arena, in terms of also carrying out rescue and humanitarian operations in countries that may be affected by disasters in the future. the proposal to create a european threat response pool is a very important element. i hope, however, that the member states will retain full autonomy in the management of emergency resources and will have the full right to use these resources at any time, and that they will be made available on a voluntary basis, but also in the spirit of european solidarity. there is a need to establish such a 24-hour response centre (many countries already have such a centre, so that these experiences can be transferred) which will be a link between international actions, in combination with those we already have. there is also a need to develop scenarios for different types of disasters, both within and outside the european union. the idea of using a crisis response centre to improve the flow of information between the union and other countries is essential.
madam president! in the face of increasingly frequent disasters, a rapid and coordinated response and the ability to maximise the use of all available resources are essential to limit human and material losses. i am very pleased that the report has highlighted the role of local and regional authorities, who are on the front line in the event of a disaster. we all know that they play a very important role in both preventing and mitigating natural disasters. i am also glad that the question of flexibility in the solidarity fund has been raised, because - ladies and gentlemen - it cannot be that those affected by the tragedy wait for months or years for financial assistance to be provided. i congratulate and thank the rapporteur and hope that we will be able to implement all the recommendations in the report and improve coordination, communication and speed of response at all levels.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - what are you doing? i am speaking today on behalf of mr andrzej grzyb, rapporteur for the itre opinion committee on the future of the european union's trade policy. the rapporteur drew particular attention to the need to maintain equal access for companies in the european union and beyond when markets are opened and to place particular emphasis on access by eu companies to public procurement markets in third countries. the opinion also stresses the strategic importance of access to the world's natural and energy resources for europe's security. this accessibility should be guaranteed by the relevant provisions of the international agreements of the european union. markets should be opened in such a way as not to undermine the competitiveness of union undertakings and to protect them against unfair competition. the measures adopted should also prevent pressure to move the activities of these operators outside the common market area. these issues are of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most vulnerable to unfair practices and which need to be guaranteed the opportunity to grow and compete in the global market. i am glad that most of these demands have been incorporated into daniel caspary's report.
in writing. world trade benefits all its participants. i therefore believe that we must continue to work towards the removal of barriers and restrictions. however, liberalisation also has its limits, which arise from the need to maintain a balance of benefits between the parties to the exchange. trade policy must meet certain criteria - in particular, that imported goods comply with european requirements in terms of safety standards, social issues, but also production conditions and environmental impact, as this is the basis for maintaining competitiveness. this is particularly important given the fact that the european producer is facing huge costs related to environmental compliance, working conditions and wage levels. the trade strategy is an important element of the broader development strategy. it is of additional importance in the face of the economic crisis, and trade conditions established at wto level must therefore assume equality in the level and scope of trade. i would also like to draw attention to the extremely important problem of unity and solidarity in the eu in trade with third countries. we have too many examples of our partners dividing the union by offering preferential conditions to only selected member states. the common market requires us to be uniform in our external trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the eu-us agreement on civil aviation research and development provides an opportunity to strengthen mutual cooperation and exchange experience in this field of research and development. i believe this will have a direct impact on creating a more efficient and environmentally friendly air transport system and help in the international standardisation of the industry.
in writing. − research, development and innovation require huge financial commitments. the european union is seen as a land of prosperity, a place where people live in abundance and where eu funds ensure sustainable economic, social and scientific development. yet, as the author of the report points out, our combined funding for research and innovation is lower than that of asia or even south america! do we not have a wonderful cultural heritage? aren't our education systems among the best in the world? is europe not home to many great inventors, pioneers of solutions that make our lives easier and better? to support the development of our continent, we should consolidate our efforts in the field of innovation, intensify cooperation between member states and harmonise the procedures governing scientific research. this is how we will ensure that europe has a sustainable and balanced growth.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report by my portuguese colleague marisa matias. the report's theme is extremely relevant, research and innovation is our future and it is our duty to strengthen its funding. adopting a strategy and setting concrete objectives has enabled the european union to remain a major player on the global stage. particular attention should be paid to the need to establish and strengthen cooperation between member states, which will allow for the exploitation of economies of scale and synergies in research and development. we should remember that the defence sector must also focus on achieving these objectives, and i hope that this will be achieved within a reasonable timeframe.
in writing. − in building europe's future, we must pay attention to the development of scientific research and invest in innovation, because these fields contribute to job creation and to the improvement of the quality of life of citizens. high technologies and innovative solutions available to smes will make them more competitive on the world market and thus create additional jobs. that is why i voted in favour of the marisa matias report on eu funding for research and innovation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eu funding for research and innovation. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i wanted to draw attention to two things in particular: firstly, the need to increase the number of women in senior positions in research institutes and research projects. here, the pattern is always the same: the higher the rank in the scientific hierarchy, the fewer women. i therefore support the initiative to appoint at least one female professor to university decision-making bodies, especially to staff recruitment committees. i also support greater support for women who return to scientific work after giving birth, and for those who combine their working life with child-rearing. i'm proposing a pool of grants, scholarships, research programs geared exclusively to women. i also call on the commission to increase the number of women entrepreneurs in the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. i also support the commission's initiative to promote women's entrepreneurship and create an environment conducive to the development of women-led businesses, the so-called european network of women's entrepreneurship ambassadors.
in writing. - i believe it is very important to combine multidimensional activities for industrial development and research. in the face of increasing globalisation and the crisis that accompanies it, maintaining competitiveness is a major challenge, and research and innovation are the most important elements of this process. at the same time, the financing of these programmes at national level leads to duplication of procedures. more efficiency could be achieved by acting at a higher level at union level. integration and the proposal of a common financial framework are needed to make effective decisions to secure the common future in the most effective way. equal opportunities are also an important factor in consolidating europe, but not the only one. one of the key objectives would be to increase investment, especially for new countries which, as mentioned in the report, require significant assistance to increase investment to the required 3% of gdp, including not only short-term but also long-term objectives. the involvement of those regions and countries which are not beneficiaries of european programmes in this field should be encouraged and small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported. the social dimension of research and innovation is also worth noting. there is a need for direct communication with society, for example through education or the promotion of science, to encourage and, in a way, awaken europe's potential. in addition, procedures should be simplified, not only to facilitate the use of the programmes, but also to provide additional financial opportunities.
in writing. − the european schools are primarily a project to provide education in the mother tongue for children whose parents have left their own country. they also promote multiculturalism, learning in several languages at the same time, and a mobile, dynamic education system that makes it easy to adapt to the education model in the home country when the family decides to return from emigration. these establishments should be equitably co-financed by the member states, which also delegate teachers from their language sections. financing systems should be flexible enough to take account of emerging economic disruptions, but cuts caused by the financial crisis cannot be allowed to disrupt the development of young europeans.
in writing. the european union, as such, must contribute to the development of quality education and, above all, to cooperation between member states. i believe it is important to encourage member states and regional authorities with legislative powers in the field of education to promote the concept of a european school in their territories by organising awareness campaigns on european education. in addition, investing in young people should be our priority, which is why i voted in favour of the jean-marie cavady report on the european school system.
in writing. - i voted with satisfaction to accept the document. the european schools system has been in existence in europe for over 50 years and its model is very inspiring. more and more educational establishments are trying to meet the demands of the present and to educate children and young people in a comprehensive way, oriented towards the development of talents and skills. this should be the primary objective of modern education, and its achievement requires specific legal solutions and a clear system of funding. in poland, european-style classes are becoming increasingly popular, where students are educated in the para-university system. many universities already have courses taught in a foreign language, and at a few universities, studying (non-philological courses) is possible only through the knowledge of a foreign language. we are therefore at the beginning of a journey which will mean major changes in the european education system for the benefit of future pupils and students.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future of eu cohesion policy. i stress the need to simplify and make more flexible eu and national rules and procedures for raising funds. the current level of complexity of the programmes does not allow for effective control of how the money is spent. i pay particular attention to ensuring that beneficiaries of eu funds have constant, free and easy access to information, advice and training. i support the proposal to set up an eu-wide cooperation programme for the exchange of information between high- and low-use regions to facilitate the dissemination of good practice. i also support the idea of creating an online platform for the exchange of good practice for beneficiaries, local and regional actors and government institutions. it is also important that future funds, in particular the globalisation fund and the european social fund, take into account the current socio-economic challenges, in particular the economic crisis. member states should better inform about the resources of the funds and simplify national procedures for their mobilisation. to this end, i am in favour of the creation of so-called 'european single contact points' to help both local authorities and eu citizens prepare their applications for funding from the funds.
in writing. − in the face of the natural and man-made disasters that are affecting europe and the world, the european union should coordinate the actions of its various institutions to be able to help victims as effectively as possible. the creation of a crisis response centre is a good move, which i hope will improve and accelerate the response of the emergency services. solidarity is the value on which the community was built, and with this in mind, we should help those in need. the cooperation of all the institutions and all the member states is essential for our actions to be effective. as one of the richest organisations in the world, we must remember the most neglected and poorest regions, which cannot cope with the disasters that beset them.
in writing. - today we voted on a very important and very good report by mrs elisabetta gardini on strengthening europe's response capacity to disasters and emergencies the role of civil protection and humanitarian aid. working in the committee on regional development, i believe that by implementing all the recommendations in the report, we will be able to improve coordination, respond at regional and national level and make the most of our strengths and resources. only such actions will reduce the impact of disasters and natural disasters. in addition, it is a good idea to merge the monitoring and information centre with echo's humanitarian crisis centre into a single entity crisis response centre, which will allow for faster information flow and better cooperation, which is why i voted in favour of the whole report.
in writing. - i supported the report on 'european disaster response capacity: the role of civil protection and humanitarian aid'. in the event of a disaster, the current union procedure is not able to provide adequate and sufficient assistance to member states. improvements in its efficiency, effectiveness, coherence and visibility are urgently needed. more efficient use of available resources will avoid additional financial and administrative procedures, especially for regional and local administrations. a more effective and early response is a much more cost-effective solution than simply repairing the damage. the consistent use of available funds for this purpose ensures effective assistance at all levels (human resources, infrastructure). sufficient aid means better identifying shortcomings and defining the eu's specific role in providing assistance to member states. i also point out the need to amend the regulation on the solidarity fund. the criteria for receiving assistance from this fund should be adapted to the specificities of the regions and the disasters. moreover, as with other funds, it is also important that they can be mobilised flexibly according to needs.
in writing. - the problem of the lack of good and efficient response systems for disasters of all kinds is unfortunately often remembered only after the fact. in recent times, we have seen many tragic natural disasters in europe and around the world. the regular torrential rains that cause floods, storms, forest fires, the icelandic volcano eruption - all these events cause huge financial losses and cause traffic paralysis. events outside europe - haiti, pakistan, japan, the explosion of a drilling rig in the gulf of mexico - have also led to thousands of deaths and negative changes in the european economy. in times of crisis, we cannot afford to duplicate the work of several member states, which means duplicating the costs and efforts of the responders in each of the community countries. we therefore need to develop a coherent, comprehensive and coordinated system for the whole of the union that is not only effective but also rational. i also call for attention to be paid to cooperation with third countries and neighbouring countries of the union. these countries should be the ones to be involved in the cooperation and coordination of actions and measures in order to exploit their potential in the most effective way, bearing in mind that disasters of all kinds have no territorial boundaries.
in writing. − the many disasters that have recently hit the community and other parts of the world require all possible action to strengthen europe's capacity to respond to disasters and emergencies. as vice-president of the delegation for relations with japan, i have been following the developments in that country with particular attention, which was hit by a major cataclysm in march this year, which was compounded by an earthquake, a tsunami and a serious nuclear power plant failure. recognising that we cannot exclude the occurrence of natural or man-made disasters, it is necessary to develop scenarios of action based on existing mechanisms and taking into account the pool of pre-determined resources. a coherent strategy, including action plans, an integrated monitoring system using satellite information, improved information flows and coordinated cooperation between member states, will certainly help to reduce environmental, social and economic damage in the event of disasters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is good that the european parliament is paying more attention to the union's ability to help in the event of disasters. it is worth noting that the number of disasters reported worldwide, including in europe, has increased fivefold in the last 30 years. we must therefore do much more to help overcome the effects of increasing disasters. i believe that the european union is increasing its resources for this purpose, but the union's actual capacity is still far from sufficient. they cannot rely on resources declared on a voluntary basis by individual eu countries. the union should establish its own capabilities, at union level, which would require, for example, the provision of a fleet of transport aircraft to be used immediately when humanitarian aid is needed in the event of a disaster.
in writing. - mr. chairman, i voted to reject the report. tourism is a powerful sector, accounting for 10% of the eu's gdp, a sector of the economy and a major job creator. it is also a sector of key importance for the integration and sustainable development of the regions concerned. the need for continuous innovation in this economic sector, in particular in ensuring full access to the internet throughout the union, is also unquestionable. unfortunately, many of the provisions of the report refer to areas reserved for member states, which in my view violates the principle of subsidiarity. among other things, suggestions to simplify visa procedures for tourists, given the increasing problem of illegal immigration, could contribute to the economic crisis in some countries. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european tourism area is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − tourism is one of the largest economic sectors in the modern market, providing many jobs and at the same time offering broad prospects for development. promoting europe's diversity, ethnicity and the attractiveness of its regions is a tremendous asset. many of the tourist attractions of individual countries, despite their extraordinary charm, are still not promoted among the european population, which is why it is so important to support the promotion of the regions. comprehensive information makes such areas more attractive not only to tourists but also to potential investors. that is why i voted in favour of the report, which addresses these important aspects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe there is a strong need to create a common programme to promote europe as a valuable tourist destination in the world. it is therefore essential to create a joint action to promote a common brand 'europe' that could showcase the unique values of the member states in the world, particularly in the field of tourism.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it is the first time that the european parliament has dealt comprehensively with the development of european tourism. it is an increasingly important sector in europe, but also in my country, poland, including the kujawsko-pomorskie region, where tourism is increasing its social and economic importance. the main cities are toruń, bydgoszcz, grudziądz, inowrocław, włocławek, chełmno, tuchola, brodnica, żnin and golub dobrzyń, which are also the main cities of the region. i would like to point out, however, that we should also be more effective in attracting tourists from outside the european union, including our neighbours in the so-called eastern countries. this requires significant changes to the union's visa policy. preferences should be given to tourist groups and to individual tourists, so that they can obtain visas much more easily.
in writing. - the statistics on road safety in europe are alarming. thousands of people are killed or maimed for life because of the stupidity of irresponsible drivers. the european union is therefore making it a priority to harmonise its legislation and adapt it to new technologies. the next step is to improve the infrastructure. especially in central and eastern european countries, the quality of roads is poor and often causes accidents. it is therefore necessary to check that these countries make good use of the funds available for the construction of new roads and motorways as well as railways. modern rail transport would help to relieve the road and replace the dangerous trucks, especially for other road users. i would also like to stress the need for early education. future drivers should be taught the principles of cultural participation in road traffic as early as possible and given good role models to follow.
in writing. - on 27 september 2011, a vote was held on the report on road safety in europe 2011-2020 (a7-0264/2011), which i supported. with the implementation of the third european road safety action programme, road fatalities have been reduced by 36%. despite improvements in the road situation, 35,000 people were killed and over 1.5 million injured in 2009. we must contribute to improving road safety for the benefit of the public. the actions of traffic participants and all stakeholders should be coordinated. to this end, a european coordinator office is needed to act as a liaison for the implementation of new strategies at different levels with the support of the european commission. more concrete steps should be taken to reduce the number of casualties. reliable statistics and accidents data are key to solving the road safety problem. since citizens are largely responsible for road safety, the best possible training for future drivers must be provided and those who break the rules of the road must be severely punished. the system of penalty points should be harmonised. continuous driver education and vehicle inspections are also important.
in writing. − i am a strong advocate of improving road safety through the coordination and harmonisation of road rules and signs and the implementation of a common road safety strategy. however, i believe that the negative effects of certain proposals in this legislation would outweigh the benefits. this was the case with the idea of introducing a speed limit of 30 km/h in built-up areas, which would not only have a negative impact on the transport sector, would be incomprehensible to a large part of the public, but would also not improve safety, since such a law could simply be ignored. another proposal i could not agree with was a ban on the production of road-traffic radar detectors. consequently, i voted against the regulations.
in writing. − accident statistics on european roads have improved in recent years, but still about 35 000 people are killed and 1.5 million injured in road accidents every year. the commission estimates that only 27.5% of the objectives of the third rtd programme have been achieved. i am convinced that the legislative framework on this issue is not yet fully exhausted and that further regulation at european level is possible. the koch document contains many interesting ideas, but it is not without flaws. i find interesting, among other things, the initiatives to improve the quality of training for young drivers, to make vision tests compulsory for vehicle users, and to improve safety at railway crossings. unfortunately, i am not entirely convinced of some of the rapporteur's ideas, such as the speed limit of 30 km/h in built-up areas and on all single-lane roads in urban areas that do not have a dedicated bicycle lane (i voted against this provision). for some initiatives, neither a timetable nor a way of implementing them has been defined and, given the complexity of the problem, it is not possible to implement them at the moment. however, i have endorsed the document and i trust that the european commission will take the ideas in mr koch's report seriously and present a sound analysis of the impact of the proposals as soon as possible.
in writing. − the nirja devy report on infrastructure in developing countries highlighted, among other things, the adoption of a multilateral strategy to prevent floods in regions where there is a serious risk of flooding. this is a very important problem, considering that no other natural disaster in the world has been more destructive to property or more costly to life than floods in the last century. the flooding tragedy and its consequences affect many countries in europe and the world, which is why it is so important to have a comprehensive solution to this problem. that is why i supported the report and voted in favour of it.
in writing. − there are still around 1 billion undernourished people in the world, and rising food prices are not improving the situation. the rapporteur stresses that eu member states are still not making food security and the fight against poverty - the millennium development goals adopted at the un millennium summit in september 2000 - a priority in their policies. we need to look at food security in a broader, global context. developing countries must achieve independence and stability in the access to food for their people, and our actions should be directed towards that end. let us work to ensure a level playing field on the world market and support farmers so that they can guarantee consumers healthy, easily accessible products.
in writing. − this report originates in a request by the conference of committee chairs addressed to the constitutional affairs committee in order to clarify the position of parliament as regards the meaning and legal status of unilateral statements entered in the minutes of council meetings. several committee chairs expressed their concerns about the proliferation of such statements, in particular in the framework of the codecision procedure where they could weaken the legal force and scope of the adopted acts, and so possibly affect parliament’s will as a co-legislator.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a new trade policy for europe in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that the forecast of weaker than planned gdp performance and the relative decline in export and import performance make a change in trade policy necessary in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. i agree with the main assumptions of the report by mr daniel caspary, member of the european parliament, that the future european strategy in the field of trade policy should take into account the specificities of the individual industrial sectors and territories of the eu and the dependence on external growth. like many other members, i expected the commission to have a forward-looking trade strategy, taking account of developments in the medium and long term. we should not rely on the mistaken assumption of maintaining the status quo in world trade. i believe that it is necessary to raise awareness among citizens of the benefits of international trade and globalisation, which is often mistakenly associated with a decline in european production and the loss of jobs. i would expect the commission to pursue the objectives of the strategy for a global europe. i also believe that a more critical analysis of the strategy in the light of current trends in world trade is needed to better understand some of the failures to achieve the objectives.
in writing. − the report addresses an important trade policy issue in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. we must conduct european trade policy in a way that encourages job creation. the right policy can be a driver of growth in europe. agricultural, environmental, poverty reduction in the european union and beyond, energy and raw material security are some of the areas that should be taken into account in the conduct of trade policy. at the same time, it should not be forgotten that this topic is one of the most important elements of the union's industrial policy. a stable european manufacturing sector must be based on fair competition. the above actions would contribute significantly to the achievement of the union's agenda for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in conclusion, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission document shows the right direction for the community, but it lacks a real strategy for the future, which europe is particularly lacking today, in order to be able to escape from the crisis, even to a small extent.
the next item is a series of questions to the president of the eurogroup, jean-claude juncker. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the prime minister. (laughter) (applause) this is one of the few important debates and conversations we have in the european parliament this week. it is also the european parliament's response to the economic events taking place in europe today. as you know, thanks to the enormous efforts of our rapporteurs in the econ committee, we have come to a good solution with regard to the six pack. we will be voting on this tomorrow, so the decisions have not yet been taken, but it has been a great deal of work by parliament, especially our rapporteurs, including the shadow rapporteurs. today we have the opportunity to discuss the most important issues concerning europe's economic and monetary situation with you, mr president of the eurogroup, mr prime minister of luxembourg. i'll remind you of the rules: the question round will be in two parts. the first part of the questions is put by the chairmen of the political groups. the first question of each chairman is one minute, one minute to answer. if any of the chairmen wish to ask an additional question, they may ask an additional question within half a minute with the prime minister's half-minute answer. the second part will be questions from the room catch the eye procedure procedure that we know perfectly well.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i believe that spain is at a turning point in its recent history. i do not wish to interfere in the course of this decisive stage, which will take place in a few weeks' time, when the spanish people have had their say in the ballot box. the european council of 21 july expressed its satisfaction with spanish policy in seeing the spanish government take the consolidation measures we wanted. subsequently, and after 21 july, the spanish government took further measures. i assume that whatever political formation will govern spain in the next few weeks, this path of consolidation will be pursued. i would not like to see the consolidation efforts that are under way come to a halt - and i have no reason to believe that this will happen - but it must be remembered that spain was in an uncomfortable situation and that many efforts were made in spain by both sides to get the country out of that situation. for the rest, i never give - as you know, my dear antonio lópez-istúriz white - public recommendations to governments that i can see once a month in a more restricted formation.
mr president, prime minister, please! as i come from a country outside the euro area, but one which aspires to join the euro area, i wanted to ask whether the eurogroup envisages any measures, any ways of reacting, should it turn out that a country outside the euro area, which has ten million citizens, or even forty, would find itself in a situation like greece or ireland? i would like to know whether you, mr prime minister, would advise us, as non-euro countries, to set up something like a non-eurogroup, so that the dialogue between the eurogroup and the non-eurogroup is more balanced, in order to mitigate the negative effects of the intergovernmental approach and to move closer to the community approach?
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, in general terms i would like to say that i have always considered that even imperfect treaties can lead to perfect results, if the will of those responsible for applying them is perfect. this is the prerequisite for us to be able to give the treaty legs, even where the second leg does not have all the toes it would need to be able to walk in an aesthetically acceptable way. the articles of the treaty you mention can be used provided that there is unanimity in each case. on all the elements of possible progress which you mention and indicate, i do not see this unanimity being achieved within the european council or the council of ministers, or even in our national parliaments.
mr president, prime minister, please! i wanted to get back to greek affairs. it turns out that this year, greece's budgetary expenditures will be higher by more than 8%, and thus the country's deficit will increase even more. so there's no savings, which is the foundation of the aid program that was adopted. the greek finance minister recently admitted that the main reason for the country's difficulties in implementing the reforms it has adopted is the lack of an effective state apparatus and tax administration. given that it will take at least a few years to create such an apparatus, i would like to ask whether there is any chance that the aid being implemented for greece will be effective. you spoke of the responsibility of our generation. is it not worthwhile to show more of the irish society, which is very responsible and actually uses this aid effectively? isn't it worth talking to the greeks and finding ways to explain to them that society as a whole is responsible for the situation it's in?
president of the eurogroup. − mr president, i am not a spokesman for the european central bank, nor its president, so i cannot give an answer to the point raised by the honourable member. parliament has regular meetings with the president of the ecb. he is the one this question should be addressed to. as far as the member's first point is concerned, advocating the exit of greece, the answer is ‘no’. the answer to his third question is also ‘no’.
president of the eurogroup. − i am not sure that i have got all the elements of the question. if the question is whether or not countries should be treated on an equal footing, i am strongly in favour of seeing ireland being treated in exactly the same way, as far as interest rates and maturities and so on are concerned, as the other countries. i said just before you took the floor that i admire the recent irish performance. i really do admire this performance because it clearly shows that there is a way out of the situation different countries are in. ireland is on a good track.
mr president of the eurogroup, prime minister of luxembourg, this was a very interesting discussion. thank you for coming to the european parliament. thank you, colleagues, i did not shorten a single speech in this debate because it was an unusual discussion and it was necessary to discuss deeply and widely. thank you very much once again to our guest.
mr goerens, thank you for this remark. i know that it is a very difficult situation. we have been debating for 37 minutes longer than expected because it was a very important discussion. i had altogether 44 colleagues on the list and it was possible to take only 24. so i am very sorry about that, you are probably right and i will think of you next time. the debate is closed.
mr goebbels, you are right but i am not a guard of the members of the european parliament, you know that very well.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the eu for foreign affairs and security policy on the eastern partnership summit (warsaw, 29 september).
you were right, colleagues, to mention commissioner füle. i would like to thank him for being with us during the discussion, being responsible for our closest neighbours.
i would like to apologise to mr dowgielewicz. i have noticed that you are present with us as well, in the second row. welcome to the polish presidency in this chamber. thank you for being present.
mr president, the eastern partnership has passed its examination. it's a policy that's been in place for a few years. today, after the review, after the work done by the commission (i thank the commissioner very much for the excellent communication on this subject), we can say that we are moving in the right direction. indeed, the eastern partnership is a policy that must be diversified. this is the policy that belarus and moldova fall into, but these are two completely different approaches of the european union to what's happening inside these countries. so more for more, but less for less -- that's how we're going to shape this policy. we want to build a strong democracy based on people-to-people relations, we want everything that is related to the future of relations with the european union to have a strong foundation in society. three things in the foyer of the summit, which is a great celebration. warsaw deserved it, because warsaw and stockholm were the two capitals that promoted the eastern partnership and that this summit is being held in warsaw, it is a celebration for us, also for poles. first of all, ukraine and what is happening around the association is a great historical process. knowing and accepting the injustices that have been committed in this country in terms of justice, let us not confuse historical matters with current affairs. secondly, visas they are meant to be a great incentive for people who live in these countries that it's worth striving, that it's worth working to be closer to the european union. thirdly, membership. we should give the signal that it's possible. for many countries, membership is a motivation to change their country and it should be emphasised at all times that the treaty of rome is binding on european countries.
mr president, madam high commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, i would like to thank you for your support for georgia on the eve of the eastern partnership summit. i want to make it clear in the run-up to this summit in this house that georgia's territorial integrity is a matter of western honour - and i believe it is. of course, a very big part of our debate today is the situation in ukraine, and i want to say that while i am very far from being a supporter and admirer of president yanukovych, i think it's crazy inappropriate to compare the current situation in ukraine to the stalinist era, because such a comparison is simply unfair, especially in the mouths of those who are silent about human rights in russia. i would like to say that if our colleagues in this house are showing - and very rightly - a great deal of interest in the issue of human rights in ukraine - i would like to stress, very rightly - that i expect these colleagues, their political parties and their chancellors to show the same concern for human rights in their relations with the russian federation, where, i will remind you, successive parties are being de-legalised, successive parties are not allowed to participate in the next elections to the duma, while the verkhovna rada of ukraine is almost half-composed of opposition members.
mr president, when i compare this hemicycle during the debate about the south and the debate about the east, i am less optimistic and less able to be as optimistic as my predecessors. i approve the course of policy, mrs ashton and mr füle, all the texts and documents and declarations, but i am worried about the capacity to deliver. the summit is happening – and not let us hide this – in a very difficult context. we have negative dynamics in the eu due to the crisis and the south, we had an example of the failure of euronest to agree a message to the summit and we have negative dynamics in the east because of the retreat of democracy. does our offer, what is on the table, create sufficient leverage for our policy in the east? we have been taken by surprise in the south. we do not want the same to happen in the east. we need to have a good answer or another tahir square will happen in minsk, baku and in yerevan. i have a question about ukraine that must be asked. commissioner, madam high representative, do you exclude the possibility that yanukovych is playing a double game by declaring himself for the european cause and at the same time sabotaging it in terms of the abuse of democracy standards displayed in the tymoshenko case? he is blackmailing us by saying that if not, he will turn to russia and he is blackmailing russia by saying that he will turn to the european union. but ukraine is the test. we should conclude an association agreement by the end of the polish presidency and then refuse to ratify it if matters continue in ukraine as they are.
i have one question for mr vigenin in the context of your statement and that of mr saryusz-wolski. do you think, based on your experience, that this euronest offer was and is sufficiently attractive and interesting for our eastern partners? would you consider such an offer, in your experience, and in your country, to be worth considering?
mr. chairman, please! the eastern partnership is one of the priorities of the polish presidency. the outcome document of the partnership summit should include specifics on, inter alia, the future introduction of visa-free travel for the countries covered by this project. the european commission is spending far too little on this in view of the importance of this area. the recapitalisation of the eastern border regions of the european union, including the lublin region, which could largely take over the practical implementation of contacts under this project, should be seriously considered. we see an asymmetry in the european union's neighbourhood policy in its southern and eastern dimensions. the political turmoil in belarus and ukraine must not overshadow the whole project. the eastern partnership should become a platform for cooperation in order, inter alia, to prevent a repetition of the arab spring scenario in the form of a sharp conflict just beyond the eastern border of the union. the death of the eastern partnership idea through a lack of funds may therefore create the impression that there is no concept of the european union's continued existence.
mr. chairman, please! i remember how in the 1990s the prospect of poland's membership in nato and the european union disciplined us and helped us to respect democratic standards. if today our epp partners are so concerned, and rightly so, about human rights in ukraine, for example, that they extend the life of comrade stalin by as much as four years, then i understand that they will also agree that a clear membership perspective for the eastern partnership countries is what we can do best for these countries and for human rights in these countries. and that means that it would be an appeal to the commissioner and, of course, to the polish presidency, to make the warsaw summit a holiday, not because it is taking place as mr siwiec wanted, but because it will be able to give a clear prospect of membership to all these countries. this will help them in their geopolitical situation as well as in their human rights situation. i would appeal to the commissioner to send a clear signal at the warsaw summit that these countries are to be integrated into the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i'll be honest, i didn't quite understand the last sentence, which is, you don't want us to send our delegations and observers to countries where we suspect that elections may be rigged? i'm the one who doesn't understand. i believe that the only reason to send observers is if they are doing their job, to observe and report on possible irregularities. that's why i think we should send our observers to russia, even if we suspect that this election may be rigged or cheated.
mr. chairman, please! the eastern partnership summit is undoubtedly the most important event of the polish presidency in the field of external relations. the final declaration of this summit, which is summarised in concrete terms, can become a permanent element in the dynamic development and intensification of brussels' cooperation with its eastern neighbours. in view of the crisis raging in europe and the increased commitment to southern relations, there is a serious concern that interest in the eastern neighbourhood policy is waning, and it is worth noting that the next enlargement will take place in this direction. so we need to build a solid foundation for it now. i therefore hope that the negotiations on an association agreement with ukraine will be speeded up. it is still possible to sign this agreement before the end of the year. the free trade area with the partner countries is also an excellent mechanism for improving the economic situation of the community as a whole. recognising the ambitions of georgia and moldova will be a significant step forward and the introduction of visa-free travel, especially in view of the upcoming polish-ukrainian european football championship, will bring significant benefits to the member states. in our relations with our eastern neighbours, we must not forget the constant promotion of the idea of freedom. political persecution is still commonplace in belarus. the long-running conflict in the caucasus is not conducive to stability and positive relations. the european countries must take a firm stand on these issues.
mr president, madam president, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. i do not share the view that everything we have done in the eastern partnership has been done properly. i have the impression that europe has been talking about the eastern partnership from the beginning, as if it were a half-sponge, and about the prospect of membership, and about this financial offer. but i appreciate your personal commitment and that of the commissioner to the success of the partnership summit in warsaw. i would like to ask you, and especially you personally - this is a great opportunity, we in central europe understand what a civilization opportunity is - to look at the partnership not through the prism of what is today, but through the prism of the future, that is, through the prism of youth and education. i would like to call for a major educational project, a new breath of the eastern partnership for those who will grow up, mature, educate themselves and create a common europe with us. that's why i'm speaking boldly about the eastern partnership university, about something new. we need your new initiative, in terms of the membership perspective, in terms of the financial perspective, but also in terms of the generational perspective. the whole experience of north africa tells us clearly: the generational perspective is what we should be thinking about in the context of partnerships.
mr. chairman, please! it is very optimistic that the eastern partnership summit will be a success. i wish that for you and commissioner füle, and above all for the polish presidency. i would like to see the atmosphere in parliament after the last euronest meeting, when the conclusions were not adopted, not re-emerge in the run-up to this summit. but it must be said that the success of the assembly is that it has been able to assemble and begin work. what do i expect from the eastern partnership summit in warsaw? first, a decision to agree to the conclusion of the association agreement with ukraine. i think that the ukrainian government and the president of this country will do everything that needs to be done to release the opposition, in particular prime minister tymoshenko. secondly, the summit should provide an impetus to start work on an association agreement with moldova and georgia. i would also like to see it give some impetus that will allow for changes in belarus. thirdly, the summit should provide an incentive for the partner countries to cooperate with each other in the eastern partnership, as this is one of the most important tasks. what incentives can they provide to encourage further cooperation within the partnership? among other things, visa facilitation. there are no visas with russia, and there is a schengen barrier with the european union. it is the citizens of the eastern partnership countries who are disincentivised. so here we have to work ukraine, and in the future moldova are undoubtedly on this path. and support also for civil society, support for border infrastructure, for all the projects that bring civil society together.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. of course, as a pole, i'm proud that we can host the summit. i think that poland and sweden and the whole european union can be proud, because this is a step in the right direction. this is something that maybe the most important is waiting for the citizens of these six countries that are part of the eastern partnership programme. these are people who also dream of economic development for their countries - which we can help with - and of political stability, and of democracy, and of security, finally. if we are talking about economic development and our aid, it would certainly be a good move to conclude the association agreement talks with ukraine later this year and it would certainly also be a good move to send a clear signal to open talks on an enhanced free trade agreement with georgia and moldova.
madam president! despite the scepticism of some member states, stemming from the regime in belarus and the trial of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko in ukraine, i believe that the polish presidency should consistently continue to work towards deepening cooperation with the eastern partnership countries, and in particular towards signing an association agreement with ukraine. i believe that the warsaw summit, as well as the forum and conference on the role of civil society, will contribute to a greater dynamism in the process of bringing the eastern partnership countries closer to the european union. i would also like to stress the importance of strengthening the regional dimension in this integration. the committee of the regions inaugurated the eastern partnership conference of local and regional authorities in poznań on 8 september.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i am delighted that the upcoming eastern partnership (eap) summit will take place in warsaw, which will undoubtedly be one of the most important events of our polish presidency. the eu and the eastern partners are expected to meet on 29-30 september, with the participation of the eu and the eastern partners' heads of state or government, in a strong political signal to deepen integration and to engage the eu and the eastern partners in joint action. the first summit of the parties took place in prague on 7 may 2009. today, promoting democracy across the eu's neighbourhood is one of the priorities of the polish presidency. the aim of the summit is to stabilise and increase the prosperity of our eastern neighbours, and while the weu does not promise them the prospect of eu membership, it does envisage their gradual and far-reaching integration into the eu's policies, economy and law. the cfsp envisages strengthening cooperation in the form of enhanced bilateral relations and multilateral regional cooperation, the establishment of a free trade area, visa liberalisation in the long term and the extension of the erasmus programme. the commission is preparing to launch institutional development programmes for the ldcs later this year with a total budget of €173 million. the commission is also in talks with partner countries on pilot regional development programmes, for which over €150 million is planned for 2010-13. these are important first steps towards closer cooperation with our eastern neighbours. engaging in joint action to promote democracy and remove borders across the eu's neighbourhood should be a priority for all of us.
this court is now in session. we have an important debate today - a statement by the president of the commission: the state of the union. after yesterday's very important discussion with the president of the eurozone, mr juncker, this is the next debate to bring us closer to the best solutions for the union today and to answer the most important questions. that is why we as a parliament take this debate very seriously. welcome to the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel barroso, the vice-presidents who are present with us, the full college of commissioners, and representatives of the polish presidency. minister dowgielewicz is also with us. i give the floor to the president of the european commission, jose manuel barroso.
mr. chairman, please! president barroso said today that the european commission is the de facto economic government of the union, and it can be assumed that it will seek to formalise this state of affairs. the union wants to bounce back from the crisis by deepening its integration and laying the foundations for a european superstate. but when we talk about the economic crisis, we don't see the crisis of democracy and the crisis of values. today, another opportunity was announced to amend the treaty of lisbon, which was adopted against the will of the citizens expressed in referendums in several eu countries. in building a european state, we are not talking about the most important values on which europe is built, namely christian values. what's more, we're seeing an attempt to disable them. it must be stated clearly and unequivocally that no reform will succeed without a return to the true european roots.
president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, let me start by thanking this house for the strong support given to my statement on behalf of the european commission. i think it is very important for all of us in the european commission to feel that support coming from the most important political forces in europe and for you, who have been directly elected by our european citizens. of course i was not expecting unanimity. one member of parliament, a british nationalist, attacked me on the fact that i am not elected. i want to tell you that since the age of 29 i have always been elected by my own parliament. i was prime minister of my country, i was leader of the opposition of my country and i am here, as president of the commission, because this parliament voted for me to be president of the european commission. (applause)if you do not respect the institution to which you belong yourself, this is not my problem. regarding britain, i would like to make this point to you. as far as i know, you have tried several times to be elected to your own british parliament. how wise the british people are that they have never elected you to your own parliament and sent you here. (applause)if you want your country to leave the european union, say it in london and try to get your country to agree. but do not say it here because, as far as we know, your institutions and your country want to remain in the european union. if your country does not want to be in the european union, do not speak on behalf of the others, do not speak on behalf of poland, that just today set their commitment to the community approach and to a stronger and ever-closer european union. if britain believes that it can, because of its past empire, or because of its dimension, defend its interests in the world alone, try to get that point across in your country. but i think the majority here believes, as was said, that to protect our interests, to defend our values in the world of globalisation, to speak with one voice with our american friends or china and russia, we need a stronger european union. this stronger european union is also a way to reinforce our countries, the countries that we all represent around this house. (applause)this point is very important. this is a point of substance, apart from the other funnier parts. how we build a european union is a point of substance. are we going to build a european union against each other or with each other? that is why i welcome this message of support, not only from the most important political forces here and the consensus expressed, but also from the current presidency of the council, poland. we need a community that matters: a community spirit and a community approach to reinforce our common interests. we need to build a european union with our member states, but we also need to build a european union based on the rassemblement of all the major pro-europeans, the most important political forces of europe. i agree with andrew duff that we also probably need to reform some of our european political parties, so that we can also have a collective expression in the european public space of this european democracy. today some of you said ‘yes, but’. please, among pro-europeans, do not say the ‘but’, just say ‘yes’. you do not say to your loved ones – your wife or your girlfriend, your husband or your boyfriend – ‘i love you, but’, you say ‘i love you, i support you’. we need your support to make europe stronger because europe’s real problem is, as i said, also a problem of confidence. let us be completely clear. the problems we have in europe today did not arise because of the european institutions. the problems we have in europe today arise because of narrow national interests that have prevented the european project from moving forward. so i say to those of you that criticise me, or the commission, that we are ready to accept all your criticisms, but the commission is proud of the work it has achieved. today we have not only made a speech, but we have put forward a programme with proposals. everything i said last year in the european sate of the union i checked; we have delivered. every proposal i made today to you, we will deliver and we need your support and not your doubts and your scepticism. that is very important today because we need to build this stronger support for a stronger europe in a spirit of confidence. today you are going to vote on the six-pack; some of you do not agree but the proposals were made by the european commission one year ago. we have tabled 29 proposals for the financial regulation. some of the points you have made are already on the table for the council. about capital of banks we have put forward a capital requirements directive. some of you do not agree but it is there, our proposal. about tax evasion we have asked the council, and so far we have not yet received a mandate to negotiate with third countries the issues of taxation because what is happening so far is that countries are negotiating alone. we have put forward the tax savings directive. regarding the services publiques, the public services, i have committed to present it before the end of the year and we will do it. we are going to respect all our commitments and today i also put forward before you the financial transaction tax. so there is no lack of proposals. the question today is to get the support, not only of the parliament but also of our member states. so when we speak about europe we have to be clear about what we mean by europe. because this is one of the problems in terms of the scepticism in europe. some people say europe does not deliver. let us put it frankly: is it europe that does not deliver or some governments that do not deliver? this is the real question in terms of the european union. (applause) as i said, one of the problems is political and political confidence and we need to make the case for europe. today when some governments say: ‘we do not have enough support for the euro; we do not have some support for the european union’, probably they are right. but we have to ask them: did you make the case for europe? did you make the case for the euro? did you explain to your citizens what we have to lose if we do not keep our strong commitment to our common achievements? so we need to make the case for europe. and this is a collective task from the european commission, of course, from parliament – and you have been elected and you can of course discuss this matter and i know you are doing it with your electors but also from our governments. we need to make the case for a stronger europe, that is why i have highlighted the importance of the political leadership, the political responsibility, and i believe that we can unite ourselves in terms of the points i have made. the reality is, honourable members, we have different sensibilities around europe. we have those who like to highlight stability; others prefer to speak about growth. those who prefer to insist on responsibility and discipline, others want to insist on solidarity and cohesion. we need all these ideas. we need to put together this vision of a common europe and the points i have made today to you – and once again i want to thank you for all your support – are not only the points of a speech: they are the points of a commitment programme, and so let us work together to make it happen. let us work together to make europe stronger, let us work together in a true community spirit with the respect for community matters to deliver for our citizens a stronger, united and open europe. i believe this is what we need in europe and what the world needs from us.
thank you very much, mr president of the commission, for the state of the union, for the debate and for all the comments and replies you have given. we are convinced that this annual debate in the european parliament in september is of fundamental importance for shaping the future of the european union. we now close the agenda and proceed to the vote.
ms figueiredo, i had 56 colleagues’ names on the list, so 10 of you could not take the floor. you were one of the 10, that is all. i do not have any other explanation. we did not have enough time. i am very sorry about that. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! there is no doubt that the european union is in a deep crisis. moreover, the crisis has not only an economic dimension, which is the most visible, but also a political, social and identity dimension. we're focused on rescuing the single currency, trying to develop a rescue plan for greece and other countries threatened with bankruptcy. but above all, we should ask ourselves: what should the union be like, soon to be 28? in focusing on economic reforms, we must not forget that our community is much broader, that we are not just an economic and monetary union. the budget crisis in some eurozone countries seems to have obscured other threats. do we see a rising tide of xenophobia in our societies? do we see our economy becoming more and more penetrated by china, and beijing playing individual member states against each other? do we have a strategy for what's happening in north africa? do we see the united states no longer a reliable and stable ally? do we have the answers to the questions that we have today, or do we have a strategy that we can implement?
in writing. today is a big day. a day when, by voting on the six-pack, the ep will speak more strongly about the crisis than ever before. the outcome of today's vote will show what our vision is for the eu and the euro area and where we are going. i believe deeply that the path we choose will be a path of stable finances, low deficits and declining debt. but we must remember that simply tightening our belt is not enough. the next decisions we will have to make will be decisions about how to increase the competitiveness of our european economy. in my view, the solutions contained in the euro plus package should be implemented as soon as possible, i.e. responsible pension reforms, wage indexation reforms, reduction of vat labour costs and the creation of a genuine common market. the next issues to be addressed are the methods of financing research, education, innovation and infrastructure.
in writing. three issues are most important in the debate on the state of the eu: 1.fundamental rights in the annual report on the application of the charter of fundamental rights the european agency for fundamental rights called for special attention to be paid to the treatment of asylum seekers, the social exclusion of roma and the protection of personal data. if the union is to continue to be proud of its role as guardian of fundamental rights, it must urgently address these problems. in addition, two eu countries, namely the current polish presidency and the united kingdom, have not fully adopted the charter of fundamental rights. 2. women equality between women and men is only a formality. in fact, women are discriminated against politically, economically, socially. they earn on average 17% less than men, occupy lower positions, have a harder time getting promoted and combining their careers with child rearing. half of european women have experienced violence, 1 to 2 million women every day. women are underrepresented in legislative and executive bodies at all levels, in the boards of banks, business organisations and large companies, and in science and research. poverty almost 84 million europeans are at risk of poverty. the fight against poverty and social exclusion must be a priority. child poverty has increased dramatically during the economic crisis. in this context, i call on the council and the commission to develop and implement a strategy to halve child poverty by the end of 2012.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i take the liberty of speaking because we have not had a debate on this amending budget, which deals with a very important issue, namely the co-financing of the european union's activities relating to refugees and migration. i also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this amending budget which will finance this important policy.
member of the commission. − mr president, i can confirm to you that the commission statement is accurately reproduced in amendment 11, but as it is a very important statement i would like to read this for you to make sure: ‘before the end of 2011, the commission intends to present a report to the european parliament and the council on the setting up of a system of common issuance of european sovereign bonds (eurosecurities) under joint and several liability, in line with article 8a(5) of the regulation on the enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area’. these euro securities would aim to strengthen fiscal discipline and increase stability in the euro area through markets as well as by taking advantage of the increase in liquidity, ensuring that member states enjoying the highest credit standards would not suffer from higher interest rates. the report will, if appropriate, be accompanied by legislative proposals. in the context of its first report to the parliament and council on the application of this regulation as foreseen in article 8a, the commission intends to review the functioning of any successor mechanism to the european financial stability mechanism and the european financial stabilisation facility during the period covered by the report. this review will assess the contribution of this mechanism to the preservation of the financial stability of the euro area as a whole, to the reinforcement of budgetary discipline among member states and to the improvement of economic governance and coordination at eu level. it will also assess the effectiveness of the institutional arrangements which govern the aforementioned mechanism and evaluate the possible benefits in terms of the effectiveness, efficiency and accountability of different institutional arrangements.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to make the following statement on behalf of the commission. the commission welcomes the adoption of the regulation on the prevention and correction of macro-economic imbalances. the regulation recognises that the nature, importance and urgency of the policy challenges may differ significantly depending on the member state concerned and that, given vulnerabilities and the magnitude of the assessment required, the need for policy action is particularly pressing in member states showing persistently large current account deficits and competitiveness losses. it also recognises that in member states that accumulate large current account surpluses, policies should aim to identify and implement the measures that help strengthen their domestic demand and growth potential. in implementing the regulation, the commission is fully committed to respecting this approach and will ensure that macroeconomic surveillance covers countries with current account deficits and surpluses with appropriate differentiation as regards the urgency of policy responses and the type of corrective actions required.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to make a statement as adopted by the commission.‘ the commission recalls its commitment towards ensuring that member states establish correlation tables linking the transposition measures they adopt with the eu directive and communicate them to the commission in the framework of transposing eu legislation, in the interest of citizens, better law-making and increasing legal transparency and to assist the examination of the conformity of national rules with eu provisions.‘ the commission regrets the lack of support for the provision included in the proposal for a council directive on requirements for budgetary frameworks of the member states which aimed at rendering the establishment of correlation tables obligatory.‘ the commission, in a spirit of compromise and in order to ensure the immediate adoption of that proposal, can accept the substitution of the obligatory provision on correlation tables included in the text with the provisions encouraging member states to follow this practice. however, the position followed by the commission in this file shall not be considered a precedent.‘ the commission will continue its efforts with a view to finding together with the european parliament and the council an appropriate solution to this horizontal institutional issue.’
thank you and congratulations, mrs. ford. we're done voting on the six pack. i would like to congratulate once again all the econ rapporteurs, who have done a great deal of work, and the committees that have given their opinions on these reports. i think it was a great job and our rapporteurs, all our colleagues who put in so much effort and got a good result, deserve another round of applause from the whole room. (laughter) (applause)
we shall now close the vote and proceed to the explanations of vote.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much. this regulation is not only relevant for the countries whose currency is the euro, but also for the union as a whole. i think the most important problem is that there is a real and sustained interest, very strong instruments to put pressure on countries that are not making progress in terms of consolidating their budgets. tolerance in this area leads to great crises, from which it takes a long time to recover and for which a high price is paid. the solutions adopted by our parliament seem to me to be only a first step. it's a good start, but i want to emphasize with all my strength that this is only the first step. it will take further determination, further consistency and very tough policies by individual countries.
in writing. − this report grants additional funds for the management of migration and refugee flows via agencies such as frontex. the european parliament has shown that it is united when it comes to the political developments in southern mediterranean countries.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mrs corien wortmann-kool. i also voted for the whole set of what we call the six pack. this is a very important package. i'm surprised some of our colleagues don't understand that it's our duty to fight the crisis. i am proud that an interinstitutional agreement was reached during the polish presidency. i am proud that, although poland is not part of the eurozone, it has actively participated in the search for solutions and agreement. it is characteristic that the opposition in different countries tries to deactivate the provisions of the sixth package. party interests win out with a thoughtful concern for the common good. what a pity! the socialists voted against. so they voted against the people. failure to respond to the crisis will hit ordinary citizens. this is not a pro-social activity. on the contrary, i'm not. fighting the crisis should be our common goal. i hope that in the future even socialists will understand the importance of this task.
in writing. - i voted, like the whole group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats, against four regulations, abstained in one case and voted for mrs ferreira's report. the reason has been clear for many months. we are in favour of increasing budgetary discipline, we are in favour of the community method, against the renationalisation of economic and financial policy, which is explicitly stated in the six-pack. we're only against cuts and sacrifices. the cuts and reductions are to be applied to the budgetary sphere, wage-earners, entrepreneurs, pensioners and pensioners. i want, as my group does, a new economic and financial policy for the union taxation of financial transactions, the issuance of euro project bonds and stabilisation bonds. it is only today that president barroso made clear statements. the crisis can be overcome by an active investment policy, the creation of new jobs and conditions for increasing the competitiveness of the economy.
in writing. - i would like to express my satisfaction with the adoption today by parliament of the so-called six-pack. the economic crisis, the effects of which we are still experiencing, has shown that the current system of financial discipline in the member states has failed on all fronts. the stability and growth pact, which was supposed to guarantee that the euro area countries met the convergence criteria, turned out to be nothing more than a wish list. the european commission's turning a blind eye to the long-standing breach of the pact eventually led to the single currency's biggest crisis in its history. the package of legislative measures adopted today creates a new quality of coordination between the eu economies. in my view, the key issue is to equip the eu with an instrument to respond to the excessive indebtedness of a member state. it should be recalled that, according to the maastricht treaty, the level of public debt in a euro area country should not exceed 60% of gdp. but for example, the current rate for greece is almost 150%! the establishment of a framework for controlling expenditure in member states' budgets is also a very good solution - under the package, it will only be possible to increase expenditure in proportion to gdp growth. this should prevent "countries on credit". the only government that can cause a deficit in the six-pack we have adopted is a not very rigorous system of sanctions and controls on countries that do not comply with fiscal discipline.
in writing. − in today's vote, pis meps backed six pieces of legislation to tighten control over the budgetary and economic policies of the member states, to better protect against macroeconomic shocks and to make the excessive deficit procedure more effective. it should be noted that the new instruments are not a complete recipe for the euro area crisis. moreover, there is a risk that the new competences will be used in such a way that europe's competitiveness will be lost rather than gained. the eu's member states must first of all avoid the spread of bad labour, budgetary or fiscal policies across the eu. the coming years must be a period of careful examination by poland of whether the new mechanisms have a positive impact on the competitiveness of our economies. only the outcome of this eurozone crisis test will decide poland's path to adopting the single currency.
in writing. − for the first time since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has used its new powers in the macroeconomic field and acted as a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council of the eu. this is a double success for the european parliament and the polish presidency.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate mr karl haglund on the successful work he has done in drafting the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. the report examines the european commission's proposals for improving economic governance through the development of a system of economic governance. while the commission's initial draft is to be welcomed, it should place greater emphasis on preventing ineffective fiscal and macroeconomic policies. the european parliament has complemented its proposals to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances by requiring all member states to incorporate the provisions of the stability and growth pact into their budgetary procedures, to give the commission a greater, more independent supervisory role, and to increase parliament's supervisory functions. in order to ensure greater transparency and accountability and to put an end to political 'bargaining' within the council or between the member states and the commission, the commission and the council should undertake to justify and make public their positions and decisions at all stages of the procedure. at the same time, the report includes specific economic management components such as a percentage saving or an annual fine of 0,1% of gdp in the previous year if a member state has not taken corrective action following its negative macroeconomic assessment.
in writing. − from the beginning, i have strongly supported the six economic governance regulations, designed to prevent future budgetary and economic crises in the member states. i welcome now adoption of the package and wish to congratulate the rapporteurs and both the hungarian and polish presidencies.
in writing. − addressing macroeconomic imbalances will certainly serve to strengthen the economic order in the european union and the euro area, which has been disrupted by the financial crisis engulfing europe. improving the supervision mechanisms and enforcement measures to correct the occurring irregularities will effectively prevent the occurrence of discrepancies between member states. early detection indicators should play a very important role in this respect, as they can provide effective warning and allow more time for the necessary response. on the other hand, however, particular attention should be paid to ensuring that the instruments used, which include, inter alia, the excessive deficit procedure and annual fines, have not adversely affected the attitude and attitudes of the societies of the member states towards closer european integration.
in writing. - smart budget planning and management is the foundation of public financial stability. the financial crisis that has hit the euro area and the rest of the member states has made us aware of the need to change both the budgetary and the supervisory framework. these changes will help restore the confidence of the markets in the member states of the european union, the confidence that we have lost through our weak control of the size of national deficits. it should be noted that this cannot be at the expense of promoting sustainable growth, which is the basis for increasing employment levels and productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. − article 1 of the un universal declaration on human rights reads ‘all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. they are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood’. on 17 june 2011 the un human rights council reaffirmed the universality of this declaration by adopting a first resolution on ‘human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity’. this resolution is a significant step for safeguarding the rights of the lgbt community, for it acknowledges human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity; it calls for better protection of the rights of this community, and it recognises the legitimacy of human rights defenders working on these issues. while i welcome this positive development in the un, i remain alert to the ongoing human rights violations, based on sexual orientation and gender identity, which still take place in many countries around the world. the fact that 21 eu members co-sponsored this resolution sends a powerful message to our citizens, our colleagues and partners overseas. it demonstrates the eu’s commitment to human rights, freedom of expression and freedom of choice. these rights, ultimately, are the core values of the eu.
in writing. - i supported a resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity in the member states of the united nations. i stress the need for member states to follow the conclusions of the fundamental rights agency reports, in particular those contained in the november 2010 report 'homophobia, transphobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity'. in this context, i also call on the european commission to develop and implement an eu instrument against abuse and violence due to prejudice-based hatred against lgbt people. i also support the call in the resolution for the active promotion of human rights on sexual orientation and gender identity in partnership with third countries. bilateral human rights dialogues and the use of the european instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world are important in this respect. it is essential that sexual orientation and gender identity issues are permanently integrated into the work of the human rights council and other un bodies. this issue should be addressed at the 19th session of the human rights council in 2012.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? thank you for including this item in today's proceedings. this debate is about fundamental issues - about european solidarity, about its current state, about european responsibility, that is, our responsibility for the weak, the poor, the excluded (often through no fault of our own). i am grateful to you for the opportunity to inform me of the progress of work on this important dossier. i know that in march 2009 the european parliament adopted the report by mr siekierski by a large majority and that recently in july 2011 it called for a quick solution to be found so that the food programme could continue in the years to come. the importance of this programme for our citizens is demonstrated by the fact that 18 million people (not only the unemployed, the homeless, migrants, the elderly, the socially disadvantaged, people who have suffered in various ways, but also large families and single parents) benefit from the eu's free food aid. i would remind you that more than 80 million people are at risk of poverty in the european union, including 20 million children. i know that there are thousands of local charities involved in this program, hundreds, thousands of volunteers who are giving out food to the poor. usually it is young people who do this, and they learn to help others in this way. for over 20 years, the programme has not only contributed to the objectives of the common agricultural policy, but also to the building of civil society and social development. we can say that the programme is implementing the strategic objectives of the european union 2020. millions of citizens, charities and organisations are waiting for positive news from strasbourg and brussels. i'm sure many of you are listening to this debate today. the current scheme allows food from intervention stocks to be donated to designated organisations, which distribute it to the most deprived people in the european union. the common agricultural policy has undergone a fundamental change in recent years. intervention buying as a market-regulating tool has been completely withdrawn for certain products or significantly reduced. as a consequence, the reliance of the food aid programme on market purchases has increased significantly over the years. although the programme is still running, the resources allocated to it for the coming year have been significantly reduced. there is concern that in 2013 these resources will be further reduced or even completely depleted. i would like to emphasize that the presidency is seeking to find a compromise that will allow the programme to continue in its full extent. in the council, the majority of member states support the programme, but there is a blocking minority. the countries opposed to the programme argue their position in different ways. most say that the programme is implementing social policy objectives, which are the responsibility of the member states, and therefore they believe that the european union should not support the poor from the eu budget. i'm afraid i find that difficult to agree with. i don't want to criticize these countries because that's not the role of the presidency. the word solidarity in this case means helping those who need it most. remember, participation in the program is voluntary. as the commission has repeatedly stated, there is no budgetary or legal impediment to the continuation of the programme. in the eu budget we have a reserved amount of 500 million euros a year. the cost of implementing the programme is just eur 1 per citizen per year. commissioner cioloş has explained on several occasions that the judgment of the european court of justice of 13 april 2011 is not an obstacle to a political decision. five months later, the commission submitted an amended proposal to amend the contested provision. its adoption in its present form or in a slightly modified form will solve the problem of the legality of purchases from the market. so it is up to the council and parliament. opponents of the program have no reason to hide behind legal or technical issues. let's face it, they're the ones who are responsible for the fate of this program. they can't be like a sick person who breaks a thermometer on this one. by reducing or eliminating the program, we're not reducing poverty. it will strike our europe with doubled force. let us not be ashamed of poverty, but actively reduce it. as you know, the commission has proposed that in the new multiannual financial framework the financing of food aid should be transferred from heading ii to heading i. the commission considers that this programme is better integrated into the europe 2020 strategy because of its objectives. the commission shall present a new legislative proposal in due course for the period starting in 2014. i hope that the programme will then be supported by all the member states. of course, the program will not solve the problem of poverty, but it can help to reduce it. even in the richest countries of the european union, there are people in need who are experiencing problems. poverty affects not only those in cities but especially those in small towns or sparsely populated rural areas. the ongoing economic crisis, the rising unemployment rate, the number of people who cannot meet the basic needs of life - they need help, the european union needs to help. that is why we have put this programme on the agenda for the agriculture and fisheries council in september. the last debate in the council, at the request of the polish presidency, was a public debate. any citizen could have followed her online. unfortunately, for three years, we've been at a stalemate on the council's resolutions. it is a pity that in times of crisis, when the number of people in need of food is increasing, social sensitivity, the general european solidarity of some politicians is decreasing. the issue of the food programme for the poorest will probably be discussed at the october social policy council. i would like to assure the president and the honourable members that the presidency is doing everything in our power to find a solution in the context of the ongoing bilateral contacts with the governments of the member states opposed to the proposal, both at the level of the ministers for agriculture and the heads of government. i know that some delegations are wondering whether the european council should not decide on this matter on 17 and 18 october. i shall be sending a letter to the president, mr van rompuy, in the next few days. the presidency is fully aware that the commission's proposals enjoy the strong support of many meps. many member states have also declared their support. i can only assure the house that we will do our utmost to break the current impasse and work out an agreed position in the council as soon as possible. five previous presidencies have failed to make progress and break the blocking minority, but i still believe that they will succeed under my leadership. i would like to thank this house for supporting the programme, but i would also ask you to help convince national governments and parliaments who oppose eu food aid for the poorest people in the european union. i'm counting on your commitment. the programme is a confirmation of the european union's responsibility to help its citizens who are most in need, and it promotes the idea of solidarity. millions of eu citizens know that the eu is not forgetting them in times of crisis. they can count on the help of brussels and strasbourg. i can't imagine this program not being continued in the future. it will not only damage the image of the european union and its institutions, but it will damage all of us.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the food aid programme for the most deprived which we are discussing today is an extremely important and topical one. we all know that, as a result of the severe economic crisis, the number of citizens who have resorted to these programmes to feed themselves has increased dramatically. the long lines in front of charitable organizations bear eloquent testimony to this. for the last 25 years we have had a programme that has been working to support these organisations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. that's 18 million people waiting for our decision. the average number of beneficiaries of this programme is 18 million each year. even when a program exists and works properly, some want to make it disappear at the very moment when, perhaps, we need it more than ever. let me be very clear on this point. the legal and financial issues that arise for the programme to continue to exist can be resolved for 2012 and 2013. what is lacking is the political will of some. i want to be clear here too: we cannot hide behind a judgment of the european court of justice. the judgment of the european court of justice does not call into question the appropriateness of this programme. what he is calling into question is a legal basis which must be updated, and it is for the political institutions to decide whether to change this legal basis. in this respect, the european commission has made a clear choice, since, for the period after 2013, it has already proposed, in its proposals for the new multiannual financial framework, to include these programmes in the economic and social cohesion policy, with a budget of eur 2.5 billion for the period 2014-2020. this is precisely to ensure the sustainability of these programmes. for the years 2012 and 2013, which are currently under discussion and call for urgency, the commission's proposal, which the council has been discussing since 2008 and which i amended in september 2010 to take account of your remarks, would make it possible to bridge the gap between the current regulations limiting purchases mainly to intervention products and the year 2014, from which we will also have a new legal basis in the framework of social cohesion policy. i have already warned the council, as president marek sawicki said, that if the council does not take such a decision now, since parliament has already expressed its views, the 2012 plan will be only a quarter of that of previous years. and there will be no plan for 2013, since it is unlikely that there will be any significant intervention in the market to provide public stocks. if there is no change to the current regulatory base as a result of the political decision that the council is expected to take, there is a risk that not even one euro can be allocated to the 2013 programme while the budget exists. i would like to thank you today for your continued support of this matter and, in particular, for your recent resolution of 7 july, which stresses the need to reach an agreement to maintain this arrangement. i am also aware that many of you have expressed the wish that the programme should continue to be financed entirely from the community budget. in this respect, i have shown how flexible i am in terms of creating the conditions for all interested member states to participate. i have also shown this to the council, and i am prepared to be flexible if the council can find a majority to take the decision. i have noted the discussion which took place in the council on 20 september; the commission is looking at ways of trying to unblock the situation and possibly to propose a common legal basis for the common agricultural policy and social policy so that we can have it now for 2012 and 2013. i hope that i can unblock the political situation in the council. i am counting on your active support to enable a swift agreement to be reached, because i think this is a further opportunity to show that europe is not confined to brussels or strasbourg, but that europe is a matter of the ground and that this programme is a programme of the ground par excellence. i think we should not be afraid to take political responsibility for this europe on the ground. we believe in the daily realisation of this ideal and i am convinced that you will always remain faithful to this ideal, to this principle of achieving concrete things on the ground that show citizens that europe is active on the ground and that it is in solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a result of the crisis, which has been going on for an exceptionally long time, the living conditions of european citizens have deteriorated significantly: unemployment is rising, a large proportion of workers are receiving lower wages, retail food prices are continuing to rise, and the scale of poverty is widening. poorer retirees save on food so they can buy medicine. many of them, like a large proportion of the unemployed, benefit from free food distribution. in europe we already have about 80 million people living in or on the verge of poverty. what do we say to people who ask us why the union is cutting back on free food distribution in this situation? the reform of the common agricultural policy is increasingly limiting intervention buying-in. should we limit the supply of free food to undernourished people because of the decline in the number and quantity of food in stock? we have discussed this matter in this chamber not long ago. in fact, all of them were unanimous in their support for keeping free food distribution at the current level. so i ask, why is the vote of the mps who have the mandate given by the voters not taken into account? i think we should be very sorry about that. the european union is a great example of a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a world in which the common good is the common good of all. it should also be recalled that the fight against poverty is one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i am pleased that the importance of the free food scheme for mitigating the effects of the crisis has been recognised by president barroso of the european commission in his speech to the state of the union debate today. i appeal to the governments and members of parliament of those countries which block the allocation of adequate funds for this noble purpose, and i ask them to change their position. the draft financial perspective 2014-2020 allocates an amount of eur 2,5 billion, i.e. eur 350 million per year, to the programme, compared to the previous allocation of eur 500 million per year, which represents a reduction of 30%. so the amount of money to do this should be increased in the new financial perspective to 3.5 billion a year to keep us... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say to mr eickhout that i invite him to poland because i have lived there for several decades and have not seen the rivers dry up, and as far as co2 emissions are concerned, poland has reduced them by about 30% in accordance with the kyoto protocol, which no other western european country has done. rio+20 is a great challenge and an opportunity to develop transnational solutions that ensure economic development while meeting the needs of society and the environment. the three rio conventions, which are well known and widely discussed in the eu, on biodiversity, climate change and desertification, are the answer to related problems. the rio+20 summit should primarily serve as a catalyst for developing a coordinated approach to these three conventions, and the union should take the lead in the discussions on a coherent strategy. the summit should result in concrete actions to boost the development of a green economy, including, for example, plans for environmental costs in economic decision-making, the creation of effective mechanisms and programmes adapted to global challenges that meet the needs of developed and developing countries alike. the rio conference should not be used to promote particular party, political or ideological interests. i am thinking here of the recent attempts to eliminate nuclear energy or shale gas, now enigmatically called unconventional fuel. the energy mix, as mrs auconie said, belongs to the member states. only consensus and a wise compromise will link the rio+20 goals with the need for sustainable access to different energy sources.
mr. chairman, please! we agree, of course, that development should be as sustainable as possible. but this resolution is about something else. under the guise of balancing global development, the authors offer solutions that are either inadequate or downright harmful. what does a financial transaction tax have to do with sustainable economic growth? i would remind you that this morning president barroso had already spent the money collected from this tax, but he spent it on measures to combat the financial crisis, so it will be very difficult to spend this money again, this time on climate policy. i would also point out that the linking of the tax to specific expenditure is incompatible with the principle of the universality of the tax. the ban on unconventional oil production, which affects a small part of canada and the united states, has nothing to do with sustainable development. similarly, the slowing down or global phase-out of nuclear power has nothing to do with sustainability. the inclusion of these issues in this extremely bloated resolution means only one thing: the absence of a common position of the european union for the rio conference. the resolution also contains prescriptions that could have disastrous consequences, particularly for the poorest parts of the world's population. i mean the global demand to phase out fossil fuels and replace them with renewables. even europe's wealthiest societies are unable to afford the cost of change, complaining about its high cost. how are these costs to be borne by societies that are living on the poverty line? who's going to pay for the new grids, the new energy-supply facilities, the new facilities themselves? the resolution in this form is not acceptable, but if it is adopted it will only play a detrimental role in the coordination of european policy before the rio global summit.
mr. chairman, please! we all share a very strong belief that we need to work together to fight climate change, and we need to work together to develop a sustainable development agenda for the next 10 years and a better, more effective poverty reduction agenda than we have seen before. it is essential to reach a global agreement on this, because we are in a very difficult situation. we are forcing our citizens, our businesses, to make changes that are very difficult for them, while other countries on our globe do not have the same rules. how do we explain to our citizens, to our entrepreneurs, that they have to and others do not? in europe, we have our 2020 targets, we have the ets and we have sustainable standards, but in the united states, india and china, these measures are not being implemented. how do you convince people that they should shut down coal plants when they know that 10 new coal plants are being built in china at the same time? it's very difficult to tell them that energy prices will go up and jobs will go abroad. and in india, we have heard very often that with the climate agreement, europe simply wants to choke the emerging economic powers, wants to weaken their competitiveness. we can certainly do more than we have done so far, but these commitments cannot be confined to one continent. and since the only fair way to drive our actions is by common agreement, i think we also need to look for plan bs and plan cs, which are the ones that tell us what to do if we can't reach that global agreement. we often hear the phrase "think global, act local", but maybe we should reverse that. we have to act and think globally, but then think about how to bring it to our own backyard. so he can start slowly in our backyard and move on.
mr. chairman, please! the european globalisation adjustment fund is proving to be a useful instrument to support workers who are victims of mass redundancies and need help to re-skill and find alternative employment. this is evidenced by the increasing number of applications from persons directly benefitting from this aid and the amount of financial resources involved. the extension of the fund to include those who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis has proved to be a step in the right direction. as a result, the egf has become an effective instrument to complement the efforts of member states to address the deteriorating labour market situation, alongside national crisis-management measures. these two arguments, namely the increased interest in support from the fund as evidenced by the increasing number of applications and the perception of the egf as an effective tool to combat the effects of the crisis, are the strongest arguments in favour of extending its extended scope until december 2013. however, among the complaints raised by the addressees of this fund is the excessive length of time taken by the european commission to process applications. this affects the delayed effectiveness of actions and sometimes reduces their effectiveness. therefore, amendments in this respect should be considered.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the commission very much for its position and at the same time i would like to congratulate mrs berès and mrs harkin very much for preparing a very comprehensive draft resolution on the future of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). a few weeks ago in gdańsk, with commissioner andor, representatives of our parliament, the council, the eib, eurofound and other institutions, we discussed the instruments to support employment in the new multiannual financial framework. the conclusions of this debate indicate that the future of the egf should be discussed in close connection with the future shape of the european social fund as well as the micro-credit instruments, in order to avoid overlapping of their spheres of influence in the future, to increase their efficiency, flexibility and speed of implementation. the experience of the european globalisation adjustment fund, both positive and negative, because it was and is, is extremely valuable. i am convinced that this acquis should be put to good use in the process of preparing regulations governing future employment instruments.
in writing. the adoption of a resolution on the mobilisation of a special budget line for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to combat the effects of the economic crisis is a very good step by the european parliament, not only for poland, which has already benefited from its resources three times, but also for the other eu countries wishing to benefit from its assistance. the egf supported 10% of the workers made redundant in the eu in 2009-10, of whom 40% were successfully reintegrated into the labour market. the extension of the fund until december 2013 will be an effective instrument to facilitate the often long and difficult process of retraining and professional development of redundant workers in situations of unforeseen restructuring of sectors and enterprises, especially as a result of the crisis or the effects of globalisation. i also hope that the european commission will manage the award procedure efficiently, and that the fast procedures are the factor that will make the citizens feel that this project is a success. this is important given the high number of people who are looking for such assistance, as evidenced by the increasing number of applicants who have received egf assistance and the amount of funds involved.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. due to the european union's climate policy and for this reason alone the energy-intensive industry is under enormous competitive pressure from outside europe, from countries where co2 emissions are simply not regulated. for the chemical and paper, cement and steel industries, this means holding back investment in europe, holding back innovation in these areas and also moving jobs out of europe. in many countries of the european union, these industries pay disproportionately for electricity simply because the energy sector is dominated by high-carbon technologies - this is the case in poland. this distorts competition on the community market. if we want to remain competitive, we must provide energy-intensive industries with tax breaks, public aid, and the suspension of transmission tariffs so that they can make the transition to a low-carbon economy in a smooth way.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established in 2006 with the objective of showing solidarity and support to workers who were affected by the financial crisis. the fund provides a strategic, long-term perspective which allows for reintegration of workers back into the labour market. job-search assistance, tailor-made training and re-training it skills and certification of acquired experience, entrepreneurship promotion and aid for self-employment; these examples merely demonstrate the work of the egf. in times of financial instability, the existence of the egf is of the highest importance, therefore i voted in favour of the motion for resolution to support the egf. with this resolution we support the fund and its own budget line beyond the current mff, but most importantly, we continue to show the eu’s solidarity with workers who are negatively affected by the crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 29 september 2011 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund, given that the current situation requires the extension of the use of the fund. i hope it will be permanently placed in the budget so that it provides funds for people who have lost or will lose their jobs as a result of the financial crisis. in particular, i hope that in the event of restructuring in the defence sector, those who will have to retrain will receive appropriate support.
in writing. - mr president, the current turmoil in the middle east peace process shows how much diplomatic work still needs to be done. the speeches of the leaders of israel and palestine last week have fundamentally hardened and radicalized the positions of the warring parties. it is therefore essential that we fully commit ourselves to the initiative of new talks and the development of a roadmap for a concrete peace agreement. but i am particularly concerned about israel's increasing isolation in the middle east. i'm sorry about the breakdown in his relationship with turkey. i look forward to intensifying european diplomacy to overcome this crisis and to accelerate the return to cooperation between the two countries. we cannot tolerate the continuing attacks on israeli territory by radical palestinian groups and the consequent constant threat to the lives of the inhabitants. the establishment of a palestinian state can only be achieved with a lasting guarantee of security and peace. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in palestine during the plenary. as well as the authors of this resolution i believe in the justness of the palestinian cause but, on the other hand, i am convinced that only the negotiated two-state solution can end the israeli-palestinian conflict. a unilateral move of palestinians seeking un recognition of a unilaterally declared state will not bring neither stability nor peace. just in february 2011, the quartet, which includes the eu, said that it "strongly reaffirms that unilateral actions by either party cannot prejudge the outcome of negotiations and will not be recognized by the international community". i personnally believe that only an immediate return to negotiations can bring peace both to israelis and to palestinians.
in writing. − nuclear energy is the most stable and efficient source of energy. countries such as the united states, france and japan have successfully used the benefits of nuclear power to develop their domestic nuclear industry. and the emerging economic powers of the world, china and india, are following suit. this is because the demand for energy is growing rapidly, and the discovery of new gas, oil, or coal deposits is not keeping up with the demand. it also takes time and money to develop such deposits. in view of this, these countries are seeking to diversify their energy sources through the development of nuclear energy. i support the green group's call for the development of green energy, which, despite its benefits, is unable to become an alternative to nuclear power because of its high cost and low efficiency. that's why i'm against the idea of limiting the development of nuclear power.
in writing. - the vote on the ep resolution on the eu's common position on the un rio+20 sustainable development conference is an important vote ahead of the upcoming conference. the union should focus on pursuing a global agreement on renewable energy and taking responsible steps towards sustainable energy development. the rio+20 summit should not be used to advance particular political and ideological interests. only a smart compromise will link the rio+20 goals with the need for sustainable energy access. we need to look for solutions that promote economic growth while meeting the needs of society and the environment.
in writing. - i could not support this resolution because it contains demands that have nothing to do with balancing global development - introducing a tax on financial transactions and withdrawing from nuclear energy and the use of fossil fuels in energy.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 29 september 2011 .
your remarks will certainly be taken into consideration.
we will certainly take your comments into consideration.
ladies and gentlemen! i would like to welcome the delegation from the lebanese parliament, which includes mr kabbani, mr bazzi and mr pakradounian. (laughter) (applause) the european parliament attaches great importance to relations with lebanon. some member states of the european union are participating in unifil. lebanon is also one of the few arab countries that have agreed to host an eu election observation mission. this is very important to us. parliament is actively involved in such missions. the european parliament's delegation for relations with the mashreq states provides the institutional framework for political dialogue between our parliaments. i warmly encourage you to maintain this dialogue through regular contacts. i hope that yesterday's and today's meetings were fruitful and that the visit of our guests from the lebanese parliament to brussels will actively contribute to the rapprochement between our institutions. thank you again for coming to europe, for coming to the european parliament.
two more pieces of information. information from the south. the developments in the countries of our southern neighbourhood give rise to both hopes and fears. we'll talk about it today. we appreciate the gradual stabilisation of the situation in libya. however, the humanitarian situation of refugees and displaced persons is a cause for concern. tunisia is probably heading for its first truly free elections today. i plan to visit both countries libya and tunisia in the next few weeks to present the european parliament's position on the progress of democracy, the establishment of a free market and future neighbourly cooperation between the european union and libya and tunisia. the violence in egypt must be stopped and the military authorities - instead of escalating tensions - have a duty to help maintain restraint and ensure the safety of the country's religious minorities. we urge you to do so very strongly! in syria and yemen, regimes continue to respond with violence to the demands of their citizens. we must continue to call on the european union states and the international community to oppose the brutal repression and support the opposition seeking democratic change in both countries. a message from the east. we have received with deep regret the news of the court's sentence of former prime minister of ukraine yulia tymoshenko to seven years in prison. we are concerned that this verdict is politically motivated and demonstrates the selective application of the law in this country. we are also concerned about the independence and transparency of the judicial process. strengthening the rule of law and the effective independence of the judiciary are necessary conditions for the final signature of the association agreement at the end of the year. i call on the ukrainian authorities to put into practice the principles and values that define our mutual relations in the spirit of a true eastern partnership.
i would also like to inform you that written declaration no 27/2011 on the recognition by the european union of the state of palestine has become irrelevant following the adoption by the european parliament on 29 september 2011 of a resolution on the situation in palestine and, in connection with that resolution, that statement has been withdrawn by its authors.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 29 september 2011. after consulting the political groups, the following amendments were adopted: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: point one. the european council will be meeting in brussels on 23 october to discuss the preparations for the european council. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia. amendments and joint motions for resolutions: 10 a.m., wednesday 12 october. amendments to joint motions for resolutions: 11 a.m. on wednesday 12 october. the vote will be taken at 7 p.m. on wednesday, october 12. point two. the debate on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area will also include oral questions from the alde, gue and freedom and democracy groups. point three. the scope of the debate on the situation in yemen and bahrain will be extended to include the situation in syria and egypt. point four. the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative for foreign affairs and security policy will follow the debate on the situation in yemen, bahrain, syria and egypt. the resolution on this matter will be put to the vote at the second part-session in october. point five. the one-minute speeches will follow immediately after the debate on the recent events in ukraine. the meeting will be adjourned until 10 p.m. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report by ms sharon bowles on the appointment of a member of the executive board of the european central bank will be included in the vote. there's no deadline for filing your amendments.
as you will recall, i raised this issue in today's opening remarks, but i understand that it is a more decisive and forward-looking presentation of the issue. and i accept that. i would like to emphasize that the european people's party's motion concerns the deadline for tabling draft resolutions. that's the clue, the principle of this conclusion. does anyone wish to speak against this motion?
the first item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council meeting of 23 october 2011. as you can see, the council's schedule has been changed. the council has been adjourned for six days.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i come to parliament almost straight from the discussion in luxembourg yesterday at the general affairs council, where we also discussed with president van rompuy how we should prepare this important european council. it will be a very important european council that should take major audacious decisions that will protect europe, the euro, the citizens and our economy from the shocks that are around. i want to say at the outset that the decision of the president of the european council to delay the meeting by six days is, i think, a good decision that has been welcomed by the member states because it will give us more time to prepare a package of decisions that the citizens and the markets are waiting for. i also want to say that, despite some signals you may have heard about the process of ratification of the efsf by the member states, the polish presidency wants to express full confidence that we will have ratification completed on time by all the member states concerned. the next meeting of the european council will once again be mainly dedicated to economic issues. as you all know, the economic situation is worsening with a slowing down in growth, and a continued impact of the sovereign debt risks in certain countries. in this difficult context it is essential to intensify efforts to secure sustainable and job-creating growth, to ensure the sustainability of public finances and restore confidence. let me go through some of the main issues on the european council agenda. first of all, economic policy. the european council will discuss a number of key priorities which should be fast-tracked because of their significant impact on jobs and growth in the short to medium term. it will also call for stronger focus to be given to the growth-enhancing aspects of the european union’s external policies in order to maximise their contribution to growth in europe and to shape the conditions to attract more foreign investment. the second issue that we will discuss is the g20. the european council will set out the union’s position for the upcoming summit in cannes, giving top priority to maintaining financial stability and restoring growth. the third item will be climate change and i am pleased to say that the environment council agreed conclusions on monday that will put the european union once again in the lead ahead of the climate conference in durban in december. regarding economic policy, in the light of the commission’s report on the growth-enhancing areas and the political conference that the presidency and the commission co-organised on 6 october, the european council will identify a number of key priorities for internal economic policy that will have a significant impact on jobs and growth in the short to medium term. economic policy in the european union cannot be just about fiscal consolidation, discipline and austerity, much as we all need those words. we also need growth to boost the confidence of citizens too in the european project. this is why the polish presidency is giving such a high priority to the growth-enhancing measures. the european council will set specific timelines for the implementation of some of those key priorities, namely the 12 priority proposals foreseen in the single market act on which agreement should be reached by the end of 2012. among those priorities, utmost priority will be given to those which can bring the most benefits for growth and jobs, notably, finalisation of the unitary patent protection system in europe, modernisation of the professional qualifications directive, promotion of sme access to finance, modernisation and simplification of the legislative framework for eu public procurement, promotion of green development in particular through energy efficiency, and the rapid adoption of the standardisation regulation. secondly, full implementation of the services directive will also deliver significant economic gains. member states will be called to complete the implementation by the end of this year and show that the points of single contact are operational. thirdly, measures to promote a fully integrated digital single market through the facilitation of e-commerce and the crossborder use of online services, including the instrument on european contract law, the so-called ‘blue button’. fourthly, reduction of administrative and regulatory burden. as regards the administrative burden, momentum should be maintained in implementing the 2007 action plan in order to meet the objective of a 25 % reduction by 2012. the rapid adoption of the simplification proposals pending before the council and parliament is essential to being able to meet this objective. as regards the regulatory burden, further efforts are needed to reduce the overall regulatory burden, in particular for smes, including by proposing concrete working methods within the context of the smart regulation agenda. the european council looks forward to the commission’s forthcoming report in order to return to those issues at its december 2011 meeting. as regards budgetary and structural reforms, member states will be called to continue to ensure that the country-specific recommendations are fully reflected in national decisions, particularly as regards those which are of crucial importance for creating jobs and growth. regarding economic governance, the eu now has powerful tools to ensure that the measures required are taken to pull europe out of the crisis: the europe 2020 strategy, the european semester, the euro plus pact, and the package of the six legislative proposals recently agreed on economic governance. and here i want to stress that the so-called six-pack must be rigorously and timely implemented in a most serious fashion by all member states. furthermore, the european council will discuss the external aspects of the union’s economic policy in conjunction with the preparations for the summits which will be taking place in the autumn as part of the follow-up to its september 2010 conclusions on strategic partnership. the intention is to adopt a thematic approach to this exercise with a focus on efforts to promote europe’s competitiveness in the world. this covers potential issues such as trade, access to raw materials, investment treaties, public procurement and intellectual property rights. briefly on the g20: the european union considers that the g20 should send a strong message of confidence at the cannes summit through an ambitious action plan with concrete commitments and measures from all g20 countries to respond to the challenges emanating from the current slowdown and to ensure strong, sustainable and balanced growth, while implementing credible fiscal consolidation. in this context i just want to recall that the main orientations for the eu position were discussed by the finance, agriculture, employment, development, and general affairs councils and they form the basis for the discussion in the european council. briefly the eu position is based on the following eu priorities: restoring growth and tackling global macroeconomic imbalances, making tangible progress on implementing the financial market reform agenda, making the international monetary system more resilient, boosting trade as the most effective way to support global growth, enhancing the social dimension of globalisation, ensuring food security and promoting the g20 development agenda and innovative financing, the need for the g20 to further tackle the global climate and energy challenges and continue the fight against corruption. finally on climate change, i just want to say that the european union will work towards an ambitious and balanced outcome at the durban conference, building up on what was agreed last year in cancún. it is urgent to address the issue of the second commitment period on the kyoto protocol and agree on a process towards a legally binding framework by a clear timeline, ensuring global participation including from major economies. finally i just want to say that the polish presidency, together with the president of the european council and the commission, stands ready to make sure that this summit will be a success. we are also considering two additional meetings of the council formations, notably ecofin and the general affairs council, just before the european council, before 23 october.
i would like to inform you, dear colleagues, that the danish minister for european affairs, nicolai wammen, representing the next presidency of the european union, is present with us in the gallery. welcome to the european parliament. (applause)
president of the commission. − mr president, the european council of 23 october will be held against a backdrop of urgency over the threat of systemic crisis now unfolding. there are many issues on the european agenda: the minister of the polish presidency mentioned most of them. i will not speak in detail about many of the important challenges, from the conference in durban to very important external items. i will focus today on the most urgent response to the financial and economic crisis. to break the vicious cycle of uncertainty over sovereign debt sustainability and over growth prospects, we need comprehensive solutions now. in my state of the union address to this parliament two weeks ago i promised responses. today we are delivering: i can announce that the commission has just adopted a road map for stability and growth. and we have set out concrete terms and timelines for its implementation. you are the first to whom i have communicated the main elements of this road map. i am sending the president of parliament the document that we have just adopted. over the last three years, the european union has come out with specific responses to different aspects of the crisis. now it is time to bring them all together, to once and for all meet the depth of the crisis with a full, comprehensive, credible response. the elements in this road map are interdependent. they must be implemented simultaneously. they must be implemented immediately. this is the only way that the european union can, convincingly: first, give a decisive clear response to the problems of greece; second, enhance the euro area’s backstops against the crisis; third, make a coordinated effort to strengthen the banking system, including through recapitalisation; fourth, frontload stability and growth-enhancing policies; and finally, build a more robust and integrated economic governance. these are the five points of our road map, the road map i put before this house today and that i will take to the european council on 23 october as a coherent and comprehensive plan for europe that embodies a community approach. this is how. first, on greece, we need a decisive solution. doubts and uncertainties over greece’s future jeopardise stability in the entire euro area and beyond. the time has come to definitively remove these doubts. this means three immediate and sustained actions. first, paying the sixth tranche of the loans to greece. the result of the troika mission has sent a positive signal in this respect. second, deciding a sustainable solution for greece within the euro area. this should be through an effective second adjustment programme, based on adequate financing through public and private sector involvement, backed up with robust implementation and monitoring mechanisms. third, we also understand that greece must fully carry out its programme in a timely manner, with continued support from the commission’s task force and maximised disbursement of structural funds focused on growth. but there is a more general problem in the euro area. despite the assurance given by heads of state or government on 21 july to support countries under programmes, and despite their assurances that private sector involvement would be strictly limited to greece, contagion risks have not been contained. to decisively put a stop to this threat that is hampering all our efforts, we must strengthen the euro’s firewalls. we must have credible, stronger instruments. at the european council, i will strongly urge the heads of state or government of the euro area to complete and complement the measures they agreed on 21 july. this is crucial, to give a much-needed injection of confidence to market participants. it means making operational the agreements taken to increase the flexibility and effectiveness of the efsf and the future esm, to allow for precautionary programmes based on conditionality, on which the commission and the ecb should be consulted in advance. stronger monitoring and surveillance could be included as part of the stability and growth pact. but the efsf must be more than just a firewall. it should have real firepower. we should maximise its capacity. to further consolidate the expression of unity and responsibility inherent in these crisis resolution mechanisms, we must accelerate the adoption and entry into force of the permanent esm – preferably to mid-2012. we must trust that the european central bank will continue to provide the background of financial stability needed for all this to be done. the strengthened and more flexible efsf is in the interest of all euro countries, including, i am sure, the slovak people. our common currency plays a crucial role in investment decisions, in growth, in jobs all over europe. i commend those in slovakia who have risen above partisan attitudes and voted in favour of what is important for all slovak citizens, for the euro area and for the european union as a whole. and i call upon all parties in the slovak parliament to rise above the positioning of short-term politics and to seize the next opportunity to ensure a swift adoption of the new agreement. (applause) the third element of the road map is the need for a coordinated approach to strengthen the banking system. let us be clear – over the last three years huge efforts have been deployed to this end; billions of euros in aid and guarantees; an overhaul of banking supervision, boosting capital requirements and protecting citizens’ deposits. however, all this has not yet been sufficient to lift the weight of uncertainty hanging over the banking system, or to halt the volatility and pressure on european banks. while these doubts persist and spread, sufficient confidence cannot be restored to allow liquidity to flow again and to oil the growth that our economies so badly need. for confidence to return, we need to fix the sovereign debt problem, which can only be done through a coherent package. we must therefore urgently strengthen the banks because, in fact, those two issues – the sovereign contagion and the banks – are now, whether we like it or not, linked. this must be coordinated through the member states, the european banking authority, the ecb and the commission. the strategy should comprise five key steps. it should include all potentially systemic banks identified by the european banking authority across all member states. it should take account of all sovereign debt exposure in full transparency; it should involve a temporarily higher capital ratio after accounting for exposure. banks that do not have the required capital should present and then implement plans to have it in place as swiftly as possible and, until they have done so, they should be prevented from paying out dividends and bonuses by the national supervisors. (applause) banks should use private sources of capital first. if necessary the national governments should provide support as a next step, as a last resort, drawing on a loan granted from the efsf. any public support should be compatible with the state aid rules. the commission intends to extend the existing state aid framework for bank support beyond the end of 2011. naturally, details on capital ratios and evaluation methods should be proposed by the eba with national supervisors, who are best placed to judge on this. at the same time, the ongoing work on a new financial regulation system should be completed as swiftly as possible. to that end, the commission will present its remaining proposals to implement the full g20 commitments by the end of this year. we also urge rapid adoption of the financial transaction tax i presented to you two weeks ago. (applause) the fourth element is to frontload policies that consolidate stability and boost growth. we all know that most member states do not have much room for fiscal stimulus. those who do should use it. however, all member states have at their disposal the means to implement structural reforms, to focus spending on priority areas and to remove obstacles to growth. as i said to you in my state of the union address, growth is within our reach if we can break down the barriers that stop money, services and people from flowing through our union as they should. this means firstly: getting more out of what has already been agreed at eu level. i am talking about implementing, for instance, the services directive. i am talking about delivering on the digital agenda. i am talking about maximising our trade agreements. these are measures that we can take today, that do not require significant additional investment or budgetary effort but which can have an immediate and significant benefit for our companies, for our citizens and for our economy. this means secondly: accelerating adoption of what is on the table. there are many proposals on the table that we can fast-track for adoption. i am talking about unitary patent protection. i am talking about the energy savings directive. i am talking about concluding ongoing trade agreements. this means thirdly: fast-tracking the most urgent growth-boosting proposals. i am talking about the single market act. i am talking about forthcoming proposals to facilitate access to venture capital because, today, there is a lack of venture capital in europe and this is especially felt by smes. i am talking about the young opportunities initiative to increase youth employment. where agreement on fast-tracking proves difficult, we should be able to use enhanced cooperation so that those who want to move forward are not held back. frankly, dear members of this parliament, it is time to say that the speed of the european union should not always be the speed of its slowest member. we need sometimes to use reinforced cooperation. (loud applause) all this should be done in conjunction with targeted investment at european union level, such as through the europe 2020 agenda, where we propose also our project bond initiative. the commission will propose it next week, and will maximise the resources of the european investment bank so that it can lend to the real economy. so, reforms, implementation of everything that we have agreed as well as trying to fund some of this effort through new sources of investment, using the appropriate instruments we have and some we can create, such as the project bonds. the fifth and final element of the commission’s proposed road map is the pursuit of sound economic policies by member states, especially those in the euro area, reinforced by stronger community governance. we now have the six-pack – and once again i thank you for your support in getting these ambitious proposals approved. we have the european semester and all that it entails in strengthening governance. but we must go further to match the ambitions of our monetary policy with those of our economic policies. as we have said, we must complete the monetary union with a real economic union. the future of the single currency depends upon it. in its road map, the commission is proposing a much stronger euro-area dimension in planning, implementing and assessing national policies. this dimension will be backed up by strict constraints enforceable at euro-area level and is based on an enhancement of the community approach, which will reinforce also parliament’s role in economic governance. we will further reinforce the role of the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs in full respect of the treaty. there are other actions we can take very quickly without changing the treaty. we must improve working methods and crisis management between the commission, the european council and the euro group. proposals to this end will be made soon, in line with the agreements of 21 july, by the president of the european council, the commission president and the president of the euro group, and the aim is to have a more streamlined process between the euro area summit, the euro group and the euro area working group. secondly, we should streamline and reinforce the instruments we have, not only by rapidly implementing the six-pack, but also by strengthening the european semester by intensifying surveillance and integrating the euro plus pact into the semester – hence reinforcing the community method. we must also go further than the measures set out in the six-pack, by setting out provisions for strengthening the economic and budgetary surveillance of euro area member states requesting or receiving financial assistance from the efsf, the esm or other institutions. the commission will make a proposal to the council and to the parliament under article 136. we must monitor the national budgetary policies of member states in excessive deficit procedure or countries under programmes through a commission-council procedure which would enable the european union to intervene. for example, in serious cases a second reading of draft budgets could be requested to suggest amendments in the course of the year and to monitor budgetary execution. the commission will make a proposal to the council and parliament under article 136 setting out the graduated steps and conditions that should apply in such cases. you see that we are really speaking seriously when we mention the need for more discipline, more integration. it means more euro, more europe. that i think should be goal of all of us. (applause)all this is in addition to the proposals on a more unified external representation for the euro area and options for ‘stability bonds’ that the commission will bring forward by the end of this year. one final point on governance: in the state of the union address i said that the commission would present a single, coherent framework for better economic governance based on the community method. we are developing that right now. the proposal will ensure compatibility between the euro area and the union as a whole. it will be done in a way that aims to integrate the euro plus pact, because coordination and integration must be carried out at a single, community level. how can we talk about coordination and integration in a disintegrated manner? it is obvious that we need a community approach to do that. yes, we need stronger governance. yes, we need the euro area heads of government to meet more frequently. but no, we do not need to create yet more institutions or yet more titles, when we already have the structures in place to do the job. it is essential that we do not create a division between the 17 members of the euro area and the 27 members of the european union, most of whom wish to join the euro. (applause)such a division could deeply harm the european union as a whole. it could call into question the single market or be an invitation to renationalisation of community policies. that is why we need to have stronger governance for the countries that are in the euro area, but to have it in full compatibility with the rules and the acquis for the european union as a whole. this is why it is essential to keep the community institutions – parliament, the commission – at the very core of the process of coordination and integration. the role of these institutions is also to guarantee this link, to guarantee that no member state is jeopardised, to guarantee that europe remains strong and united. the solutions to europe’s crisis are, i believe, known to most of us but it requires courage and political will to grasp them. to do so is to fully acknowledge our interdependence and to take a bold leap towards further integration. the problem of europe is not too much integration; it is in fact the lack of a european approach. (applause) such changes to the nature of our union may need to be enshrined in changes to the treaty; changes that must keep the community method at their core. but one thing is for sure – as the crisis narrows in on us, i see no other option than to act now. so the fact that we are considering more ambitious changes for the future should not be an excuse not to take the decisions now and this is why we need to act together in a unified and coherent way. the crisis is not partial. the response cannot be partial. our responses cannot be piecemeal. that is why this road map is a single, comprehensive approach and all its elements must be implemented in parallel. this is the message i intend to take to the european council on 23 october and for which i would like to have your support, the support for a united and stronger union.
thank you very much, mr president, for the next concrete proposals after our state of the union debate in the european parliament two weeks ago. thank you very much for your support for our proposal for fast-track legislation. it certainly needs the cooperation of three institutions: the council, the commission and the european parliament. we are ready for deep discussions on this topic.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for a very substantive and serious debate which certainly reflects the depth of the current crisis in europe and how it is affecting our citizens. the financial market turbulence which stems from the sovereign debt crisis is having very negative ramifications on the banking sector and its lending capacity and, even more significantly, is taking a very heavy toll on economic growth and job creation in europe. that is why it is essential that we build up and implement a comprehensive strategy in order to overcome this crisis. some of you have said you want to see our proposals more precisely on paper. i understand that very well but i can tell you today that we have adopted a road map for stability and growth, which presents a comprehensive but focused strategy for overcoming the economic and financial crisis, and includes several concrete policy objectives. of course many of these need to be further worked out in consultation with the other institutions – not least with parliament but also, for instance, with the european banking authority and the european central bank – as well as the euro area member states and other member states. many of you may remember, i hope, how the commission called, back in january in our annual growth survey, for a comprehensive response to the crisis. that has not quite materialised. we were actually criticised for daring to make proposals which, according to some people, were not within our competence. now our proposed strategy is based on those same broad outlines but is, of course, supplemented with new, strong elements that go beyond what we proposed in january. honourable members, we have three immediate challenges which are very clearly outlined in this road map for stability and growth. first, as many of you said, we need to respond decisively to the problems in relation to greece. the continuing doubts over greece have contributed very significantly to undermining confidence in the financial stability of the euro area as a whole. they must be immediately and definitively removed, and that will require a decision on a sustainable solution for greece within the euro area, with an effective second assessment programme based on adequate financing through private-sector involvement alongside the public sector, and with robust implementation and monitoring mechanisms. mr lambsdorff commented favourably on our proposal and said he had already been in favour of such a line at an earlier stage. i think it can only be a good thing if we have a convergence of views. as i see it, we now have to finalise this kind of sustainable solution. ms jaakonsaari called for a broader political consensus in greece, and i fully agree with her. a broader political consensus is essential to support the efforts of assessment and economic reform for the benefit of greek citizens. secondly, we need to enhance the euro area’s backstops against the crisis. the euro area must be fully equipped with financial firewalls sufficient to contain the current crisis. recent decisions to create the efsf and the permanent esm have gone a long way to building these instruments but they still need to be completed and complemented. it is now essential to make operational the decisions taken in july without delay, and to increase the flexibility and effectiveness of the efsf in order to build a really strong financial backstop. this applies particularly with regard to the possibility of precautionary programmes which are pre-emptive in nature, and to improving the capacity of the efsf to intervene, by purchasing government debt, in primary markets and to intervene under appropriate conditionality in secondary markets where exceptional market circumstances and risks to financial stability exist. moreover, the power of these backstop mechanisms need to be enhanced by maximising the utilisation of efsf capacity without increasing the guarantees that underpin it, and within the rules of the treaty of lisbon. early introduction of the european stability mechanism would also reinforce confidence in the crisis-resolution mechanism and would bring the advantages of a more robust permanent instrument. efforts should therefore be made to accelerate the technical preparation and ratification procedures in order to have the esm operational by, let us say, mid-2012. thirdly, we need to restore confidence in the eu banking sector through a coordinated, targeted effort of recapitalisation in conjunction with the other elements of our overall strategy. this calls for the combined efforts of the member states, the european banking authority and the european central bank, alongside the commission and parliament. such a bank recapitalisation strategy must necessarily mean that banks which do not currently retain the necessary capital should present recapitalisation plans and implement them as swiftly as possible. here, banks should turn first to private sources of capital, including through restructuring and conversion of debt to equity instruments. if necessary, the national governments should provide support, and if such support is not available then recapitalisation should be funded via a loan from the efsf. any recapitalisation from public sources should be compatible with the eu rules on state aid. we are ready to extend the applicability of the existing state aid framework for bank support beyond 2011. finally, on the basis of the newly adopted six-pack – for which i wish to thank you warmly – and with regard to fiscal and economic surveillance, we need to strengthen the stability orientation in our economic policymaking. i count on your support for the firm implementation of the new instruments and the toolbox from day one, which should be in mid-december or, at the latest, on 1 january 2012. however, we should also be ready to look further ahead and to develop a vision and a road map for more effective economic governance. a long-term vision must combine discipline with integration and, in that context, we are also working on the report on options for the stability bonds, to be ready before the end of the year. so it is encouraging to find that we – that is not only parliament and the commission but also the polish presidency – see eye to eye on what needs to be done to overcome the crisis. this is a major joint effort for you, for us, and for governments and oppositions in all the member states. i count on your support and also on your efforts in terms of communication. we have only a few days to win the necessary public and political support for this kind of comprehensive strategy for a truly european way forward. let us do it together and let us do it now!
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i want, first of all, to thank the house for this debate, which had many elements in common with the thinking in the member states and in the council on what needs to be done. it was also essential that we heard today from the commission a number of proposals which will form the substantive input to preparation for the coming european council. i want to stress once again that the polish presidency has every confidence that, on each of the four or five issues we will be looking at, we can reach a compromise that will reassure citizens and the markets. we heard this afternoon a reassuring signal from slovakia concerning the ratification: that it will be concluded in the coming days. i am sure that we all feel the weight of responsibility on our shoulders, and i will stress again that, ahead of this european council, the polish presidency will put in every effort to make sure we emerge on sunday 23 october with a good result which will strengthen the euro, strengthen the european union and ensure that we also strengthen the community method. i also want to thank the house for giving me a very warm welcome and for the good words that have been said here about the need for a growth strategy. i believe this is essential and it is, as you know, a priority for the polish presidency.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! on 23 october, we will witness another, perhaps historic, european union summit, which is to be preceded by meetings of the eu27 finance ministers. the polish presidency, among others, was asked to organise these meetings and is giving priority to this matter. in the context of the growing financial and economic crisis, we must make every effort and commit ourselves to finding coherent solutions, which are the only way out of this difficult situation. the greek crisis is being addressed by recapitalising the banks and by making the european financial stability facility more effective. we must ensure that this next meeting lives up to the expectations, unlike the last 'crisis' summits, whose decisions have not yet been fully implemented (after the last one, there is no ratification of the decision to strengthen the efsf in all 17 euro area countries) and already require amendments and additions. i think our common ambition should be to take decisive steps to stop the debt crisis from spilling over from greece to, say, spain. we don't have to look far for examples of the seriousness of the situation. the deterioration of the banking sector, which needs to be recapitalised, is illustrated by the recent liquidation of the franco-belgian bank dexia, which held greek bonds worth eur 4,3 billion in june. at this difficult time, i would like to call on the member states to be actively involved in joint action. this is the moment when "one for all, all for one" should be our motto.
in writing. there is no doubt that the economic situation in europe requires a strong and rapid response from the member states. the new package of regulations reforming the stability and growth pact and the consolidation of public finances are decisive responses to the debt crisis in the european union countries. while rebalancing the member states' budgets, we must not forget that the european economy also needs investment incentives and clear political signals to help it develop and restore growth in the long term. a well-functioning single market is the foundation of the european economy and the main source of economic growth. the priority for the coming months should therefore be to further integrate the internal market and to implement and enforce existing law. when deciding how to bring the european economy out of the crisis, we must also remember that the problems of the euro area are the problems of the community as a whole. anti-crisis measures should therefore involve all member states concerned, including those currently outside the euro area. it is hoped that the forthcoming european summit will produce an ambitious and detailed plan to finally bring the european economy out of the crisis and put the member states on a long-term growth path.
in writing. europe is grappling with the crisis and its consequences. after analysing the internal challenges, it is time to look at external economic policy. the union must fight for its position in the world. the longer we delay, the harder it's gonna be to maintain our current position, let alone increase our influence. we need to respond more effectively to changes in the global economy. to strengthen its development potential, the union must take the initiative in its external relations. these issues should be the focus of the forthcoming eu summit. emphasis should be placed on bilateral and regional agreements covering various areas of cooperation with strategic partners whose markets are developing rapidly. to increase its potential vis-à-vis its global partners, the union must promote a european model of economic growth based on competitiveness, social responsibility and environmental balance. the union must remain open to potential new members from europe. an organism that doesn't grow weak and then die. it is important to have an effective development and trade policy. in this context, it is necessary to support climate change mitigation in the poorest regions, and to continue to work towards poverty eradication, in particular through the import of agricultural products. the european union must be a more effective advocate of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. this requires the introduction and consistent application of the principle of conditionality, which provides for economic and financial sanctions for regimes that violate human rights.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. just as we cannot change the rules governing the holding of elections before voting, we should not change the rules allowing new countries to join the schengen area. romania and bulgaria have made a lot of efforts to meet the eu criteria. at present, member states, including those that have already joined schengen, should not tell bulgaria and romania, just before they reach their goal, that they have to start the whole process over again. we can discuss the principles of reforming the schengen system for future eu member states, but we cannot establish new rules for current members. i therefore wish to express my opposition to the amendment tabled by our british colleagues in the ecr. the european people's party should send a clear and consistent message on this issue. we must fight corruption in all member states, but this report is not about fighting corruption. it is not unusual for meps from outside the schengen area to want to change the rules. they should be careful. the uk may one day want to join the schengen countries. and what if he doesn't meet the new criteria proposed by the old members? thank you, sir.
in writing. fellow students and colleagues! bulgaria and romania have been counting on the opening of their borders as soon as possible since they joined the european union. i would like to point out that the policy of small steps towards romania and bulgaria is a success, because it imposes the european template on these countries. but there is no doubt that many europeans are concerned about the expansion of the schengen area. the growing conflict in north africa, or the organized crime, does not inspire positive emotions and optimism. in my opinion, if bulgaria and romania meet the necessary conditions, it is not fair to delay the decision on enlargement. we need decisions that are both quick and well-thought-out. europe must be united, all countries must work together, not separately, for the common good, especially now in the european crisis. it requires mutual cooperation and mutual trust. without it, there is no way to make decisions that are important to us and to the citizens of the eu.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i hope that the council will soon take a position on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. this is an important issue not only from the perspective of the citizens of these countries, but from the perspective of all the citizens of europe. freedom of movement is one of the freedoms that european union citizens value most. we should not artificially create difficulties and place additional, unforeseen demands on these countries. protection against organised crime, drug trafficking and money laundering is certainly important, but if both countries have strengthened their controls in this area, they should not be blocked in this way under the schengen rules on the basis of common concerns, often without specific data, such as against unwanted immigration. the rules of the game don't change during the game.
in writing. bulgaria and romania have fulfilled all the requirements of the union and should be opened to the schengen area. we must fulfill our commitment to these countries. the rules do not change during the game, and especially in times of crisis, when the union needs more unity and solidarity among its member states. the problem of corruption is not unique to these two countries, and more importantly, it has not prevented them from meeting the formal requirements imposed on them by the european commission. there is therefore no reason why their admission to the schengen area should be postponed. the council should take a positive decision on this matter as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! it is a great paradox that since the arab spring, the situation of christians in egypt has been deteriorating almost every month. congregations are attacked, over 100 christian women are kidnapped, often raped, forced to convert to islam. the european union must act swiftly and clearly. our economic and political support should be directed explicitly only to democratic forces. we must oppose references to sharia in the egyptian constitution. the elections in this country should be held after the constitution is changed and last one day nationwide, so as to avoid fraud and intimidation. our silence on these issues will be tantamount to tacit approval of the anti-christian religious purges and the plunging of egypt into radicalism and destabilization.
mr. chairman, i'm not sure i understand. mr president, we were surprised by the rapidity of the changes that have taken place in north africa, and we are surprised at the moment that where we have tried to support these movements, violence is occurring. just like the last time with the egyptian copts. this community is using various channels to reach out to us and tell us what's going on. i got pictures from this community, for example, and there are only 30 young girls who have died and no one knows where they are. these communities claim they were abducted. i've heard there's more cases like this. but we also have this latest massacre, which confirms that the situation there is getting worse for these minorities. on the other hand, we are close to the elections that are to take place there and we are also convinced that the preparation of a new constitution will also take place. so this is the moment when we parliamentarians, as the international community, as parliament, should respond so that these changes that are taking place there reflect our expectations for the new democracies. if we are to support them, we should support them in such a way that the standards for minorities, which are indigenous minorities, are also respected. this applies to all the countries that were the subject of the high representative's discussion today. i agree with the view that these tragic events should not be a hindrance to democracy in egypt or in other countries in the region. but if we don't respond to this as an international community, it's going to be very difficult to get the standards that we want there. thank you, sir.
in writing. alois brunner was a high-ranking ss officer, adolf eichmann's right-hand man, the man who, from 1939, was responsible for the mass deportations and extermination of polish, czech, and later french and balkan jews. he is credited with the role of the executioner of the jews in slovakia and bulgaria. after the war, he was pursued by international authorities, and he escaped punishment for his crimes against humanity. alois brunner managed to hide in syria, where he created and built the assad regime's security forces. the hitlerite criminal, who is responsible for the murder of hundreds of thousands of europeans, is the father of the services that today drown in blood the streets of hims, hama, damascus, latakia and many other cities of syria. repression and brutal torture affect young and old, women and men. after capturing more cities, the army proceeds to purge them, capturing those involved in the protests. many of those arrested never return, and the bodies found are stripped of internal organs cut for sale. according to israeli sources, the organs are being transported to transplant centers in turkey. today the whole union should respond with one voice of condemnation to the events in syria. as the protests in libya continued, a no-fly zone was quickly established. while the assad regime is torturing the syrian people, the world is silent, turning a blind eye. europe must pursue peace in syria at all costs and put pressure on president assad to bring about reforms.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as i watch the situation in the arabian peninsula, i am concerned about the reality of the countries affected by a series of anti-government protests of such a vast scale. thousands of people have died in the riots, and many more have been injured. the situation so far leaves no illusions about the intensity of the conflict, as evidenced by the events of the past few days (men paid by the regime of yemeni president ali abdullah saleh attacked the protesters with stones and bottles on the occasion of the awarding of the nobel peace prize to yemeni journalist tawakkul karman, injuring 40 women.). the extraordinary situation in which both countries find themselves, the disruption of their functioning at all levels, the violation of human rights, therefore, must lead to a solution of the conflict between the opposition groups and the authorities. it is imperative that there be peace and understanding between the parties and that the government cease its attacks on the civilian population. i call on the authorities in yemen and bahrain to resolve the conflict peacefully and to ensure the freedom and civil liberties of their citizens. al-qaida's activities in the aforementioned territories are also of concern, such as the assassination of the yemeni minister of defence, who was in charge of the military offensive against al-qaida. the fight against terrorism and the maintenance of security in this part of the world should be conducted in accordance with the principles of human rights. we must call for an end to arbitrary beatings and arrests. the european union can play a major role in highlighting the need for a genuine diversity of political initiatives to support pro-democratic reforms in the arab countries.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, i have no doubt that everyone in this house will join me in expressing condemnation about the verdict against yulia tymoshenko pronounced in ukraine yesterday. i issued a strong statement on behalf of the european union at that time and i fully share the views that were expressed in president buzek’s statement at the same time. there is no doubt that the prosecution of yulia tymoshenko was politically motivated. her conviction yesterday followed a trial which did not respect international standards as regards a fair, transparent and independent legal process. regrettably her case is not an isolated one in the ukraine. several other members of her government have been prosecuted and convicted in the same way. these judicial proceedings have been criticised not just by ukraine’s partners, but by independent monitors and experts. this is not acceptable for a country which holds the chairmanship of the council of ministers of the council of europe, or for a country which claims to share our fundamental values. selective and politically motivated justice is not the european way. governments are accountable to their electorates and their political decisions should be judged through the ballot box, not through the courts. this principle is a cornerstone of our democracies. there is absolute unity among the member states of the european union that the ukrainian authorities must allow for swift and comprehensive appeals, without limitations to the right to stand in the parliamentary elections next year. i was interested to see that president yanukovych has expressed unhappiness with the criminal code in ukraine and recognises the need for change but frankly that is not enough. it does not excuse the authorities from the responsibility to guarantee a process which is fully in line with international standards. ukraine also needs to press ahead with critical reforms to the constitution and adopt an electoral law which reflects a cross-party consensus in parliament. a level playing field is essential if we are to see credibility and confidence restored in ukraine. the year 2011 was to have been one of unparalleled opportunity and development in eu-ukraine relations. our aim was to sign an association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area, by the end of the year. that agreement has been conceived not as a gift to ukraine, or a gift to europe, but as a mutually beneficial contract sharing our values and standards, opening our markets, modernising and diversifying the ukrainian economy and entrenching the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. it would have been the first of its kind under the renewed european neighbourhood policy and the reinvigorated eastern partnership, whose leaders, as honourable members know, met only 10 days ago in warsaw and reconfirmed their commitment to closer political association based on these common values. i believe that the offer of concluding an association agreement should remain on the table. yulia tymoshenko herself asked us to carry on with the technical work on the association agreement. both citizens in the european union and in ukraine stand to benefit, and it offers the ukrainian government the roadmap for transformation that the country needs. so i believe that we should not walk away from the technical negotiations but continue with the aim of having before us on the table a document which makes it clear to both sides what is possible – and also what could be lost. but we can only sign such an agreement if we are convinced that the ukrainian leadership believes in the values on which it is based, and is committed to upholding. it is clear that this house would not accept such an agreement if it did not have this conviction. tomorrow, i will be meeting both president van rompuy and president barroso, and ukraine is on our agenda. of course we will review the contacts with ukraine, including those political dialogues and continue to send the clear messages to the leadership on the systemic problem they need to face in re-establishing the rule of law. as friends of the ukrainian people, we owe it to them to spare no effort to help ukrainian leaders take the right decisions. it is clear to us what they are and i believe it is also clear to the people of ukraine what they are.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the future of eu-ukraine relations is at stake at this moment. the sentencing of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko must be condemned. her trial is politically motivated and did not meet even minimal european standards. ukraine’s european aspirations require that it practise european values of democracy and the rule of law. that is not currently what is happening there. if the ukraine government continues on its path of sabotaging political opposition and abusing power, it will put the country’s economic and european prospects at risk. yulia tymoshenko should be acquitted and released, and should enjoy full political and civic rights as of now. the verdict, if it is not annulled, will have consequences for the implementation of the eu-ukraine stabilisation and association agreement. nevertheless, negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement should be completed and the document should be initialled as planned under the polish presidency in december. subsequently its signature and ratification could be declined if no changes take place in ukraine. ukraine will thus be made aware of what it might lose. more importantly, however, the union will, at the same time, be sending a positive signal to ukraine as a nation and to its people who have legitimate european aspirations.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you very much, madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. if i understand our discussion correctly, all the political groups agree with what the commissioner said on this point. this means that on the one hand, from the european parliament there is a strong condemnation of this process and the situation in which ms tymoshenko has found herself. on the other hand, we are also supporting and continuing our efforts to bring ukraine closer to european structures, which will be reflected in the attempt to sign an association agreement. and on that subject, as i understand it, there is a consensus in this room, there is an agreement. but at the same time, as i understand it, this agreement should continue, it should be a clear voice from this room to kiev that there will be no tolerance for this kind of treatment of the opposition. and if ukraine is serious about joining the european union, then such practices should not take place, because the issue of ukraine's integration with the european union is more important than the incompetence of a few politicians and the bias of a few judges.
is it just a case of greek tragedy being repeated? did it happen that everyone has their reasons, everyone stands by those reasons? because the ukrainian authorities are right when they say: "we are fighting corruption, we suspect the former prime minister, who was the head of the opposition, of serious corruption charges". we are right in saying that it is beneath any standards for the leader of the opposition to be sitting in jail with seven former ministers of this government. everyone is right, and somewhere in the background is the great historical process of bringing ukraine closer through the association agreement with the european union. in this difficult situation, where we can't see the points of convergence, i think we need to talk to the end. it is not the european union that should be the institution that closes the door. i think it is all the more sensible and necessary to welcome president yanukovych to brussels and talk to him, to convey to him all the reasons behind our reasoning. if it happens that somewhere at the very end, this agreement is not signed for whatever reason, the biggest winner and the most satisfied person will be sitting in the kremlin, because in fact then the russian state reason will win. thank you, sir.
thank you very much, madam president. madam high representative, i sincerely apologize for not addressing you, but that is only because i am signing with both hands what you have said and i support all the points you have made in your speech. first, i wanted to address the ukrainian people and say that we will support their aspirations and dreams to become part of the western european community. second, i wanted to address president yanukovych. mr. president, you have a chance to go down in history, but either as the one who will sign an extremely important agreement with the european union that will be important for the future of your nation, or you will go down in history by filling out the black cards and joining alexander lukashenko, because he is no longer far from what happened to yulia tymoshenko, to belarusian practices. i also wanted to address those who, as is sometimes said, have a huge influence on ukrainian politics: mr akhmetov and mr firtash. if you think, gentlemen, that you can do business with the european union and western companies and at the same time support and allow this kind of violation of the basic principles of democracy, you are wrong. we'll remember what you do. and finally, i'd like to address judge kiriev, who issued this sentence. your honor, judges who do what you did to belarus are banned from entering the european union today. and you're incredibly close to making that kind of decision.
madam president! it is unacceptable that a country which is seeking future membership of the european union and is taking a pro-european direction in its development should not comply with the basic norms of a democratic state based on the rule of law. the helsinki committee has repeatedly raised the alarm about the violation of the european convention on human rights, which ukraine, as a member of the council of europe, should absolutely respect. the lack of transparency of ukrainian law has undoubtedly led to a political sentence against ms yulia tymoshenko. this casts a shadow on ukraine's further association process with the european union. if ukraine does not change its unreliable policy, further talks are in doubt, as many concerned eu representatives and this house are already urging. i recall the european parliament resolution of 9 june 2011, which states in paragraph a that the european union is in favour of a stable and democratic ukraine that respects the rule of law, the protection of minorities and human rights, and guarantees fundamental rights, taking into account fair, impartial and independent judicial processes. these are essential conditions for the further development of relations between the european union and ukraine.
madam president! many words have been spoken in this room expressing solidarity with the ukrainian people, concern for and support for ukraine's european future, but this is irreconcilable with the fact that ms yulia tymoshenko had a trial that was dictated primarily by the logic of political retaliation and an attempt to eliminate her from public and political life. and that's the basis of this protest that's coming out of this room. on the other hand, we are convinced that the achievements in the negotiations with ukraine and the opportunities for ukraine are important, and we therefore want this process to continue until the signing of this association agreement, the free trade area agreement. the attitude of the present ukrainian authorities will decide, and i fully agree with mr saryush-wolski, whether this process should be continued in the ratification process.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the sentencing of yulia tymoshenko could make ukraine's relations with the european union very difficult. we respect the sovereignty of ukraine and understand the differences in legal systems in different countries. it's also hard to understand and accept the verdict in the former prime minister's case. one of our lithuanian colleagues said that if we were to introduce penalties for buying too expensive russian gas, we would have to imprison several former prime ministers in lithuania. fears that the motives behind the verdict were political are common in europe. i therefore call on the ukrainian authorities to consider all possible solutions to this embarrassing situation for all.
the european union assumes that by raising vat in the member countries it will increase revenue to the budget. the reality, however, may be quite different. our session is 22 hours long. according to the federation of small businesses, during this brief session in brussels, smes will spend over 23 million hours on administrative and tax compliance. 4,300 small, mostly family-owned businesses will close and some 19,000 people will lose their jobs. these are just some of the facts about the excessive administrative and tax burdens in the european union. therefore, it seems a good solution to adopt uniform tax rates for the same types of products purchased both in traditional sales and in online sales. but we cannot agree to the uniform vat rates in all countries. the basic principle is that each country should decide its own tax policy. we can only support the adoption of a principle of taxing consumption rather than production of goods and support the lowest possible vat rates.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the last 20 years have been a period of extraordinary prosperity in europe and america. however, the benefits of almost continuous economic growth were not evenly distributed. they have done more to increase social inequality than to eradicate poverty. this problem has been exacerbated by the current economic crisis, which has affected the lower classes in particular. and we suddenly realized that the wealth distribution at this point is pretty much the same as it was before the economic collapse of the 1930s. the fundamental problem we face is how to stimulate our economy. we have to realize that economic growth is not created by millionaires, but by ordinary people through their consumption. this philosophy is reflected in barack obama's proposed american jobs act. jobs are not in jet-jet factories, luxury yacht shipyards or financial institutions speculating in global markets, but in businesses that provide products and services for ordinary people. it seems that the path to economic growth is not only through budgetary restraint but above all through stimulating consumption. let's not worry about the millionaires, they can do without us, let's worry about those whose lives have been shattered by the crisis.
the next item is written statements entered in the register. written declaration no 26/2011 by ms octavia sârbu, ms jeggle, mr romeva and mr rueda, ms vălean and mr wojciechowski on the management of the dog population in the european union was signed by a majority of members of the european parliament. it will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at this part-session, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes, in accordance with rule 123. i wanted to ask for a short voiceover from ms. sârbu (co-author).
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
i consider the vote closed.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? vat is an important source of revenue for national budgets. unfortunately, the different arrangements for this system in the member states often cause complications, especially in international transactions. in this respect, the proposal for a universal vat system seems promising. the commission is also proposing to reduce red tape, for example by reducing the frequency of vat returns, developing e-declaration systems and simplifying tax exemption rules. they will obviously facilitate the business of entrepreneurs in the event of deferred payments by foreign counterparties. i consider the proposal to introduce a standard european invoice, particularly an electronic one, to be a very useful solution. this will allow for greater transparency, clarity and orderliness in the documentation. it will also make it easier for traders to find out what is wrong with a product or service if they have to make a complaint. in supporting the resolution, i am also in favour of ensuring uniform vat rates for similar goods and services.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! vat was introduced in the european union over 40 years ago. the service market was very different then than it is now. that is why i believe that a thorough review of the tax system is necessary. the european economy is now geared towards services based on new technologies, which is also changing. in addition, there are still considerable differences in the tax rates applied between eu countries. i therefore supported mr david cassidy's report on the future of vat and voted in favour of it. thank you, sir.
in writing. − the draft resolution closing the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council deserves broad support. the basic values are that: first, it calls for the communityisation of the european financial stability facility, which is intended to help to bring the sovereign debt crisis under control. the instrument should help to reduce the tendency towards indebtedness and its negative effects; secondly, it calls for a growth plan through investment financed by project bonds; and thirdly, it declares the will of the european parliament to play a greater role in resolving the crisis in the union.
in writing. − the creation of the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the european project and a display of european integration. free movement of labour, goods and capital across national borders is the core of our prominent economic strengths. i believe these points of reference should be remembered when deciding on the accession of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area. this joint resolution, which i voted in favour of, reaffirms the readiness of both countries to enter the schengen area, having fulfilled the criteria set out in the accession treaties for concluding the schengen evaluation process. consequently, this resolution strongly urges the council to base their decision to welcome bulgaria and romania into the schengen area exclusively on the existing technical benchmarks established by the eu legal treaties. with this resolution parliament demonstrates its solidarity with bulgaria and romania and acknowledges their importance by asking for equal treatment and supporting their successful accession into schengen.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! today we voted on a draft resolution on the admission of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. i voted in favour because i think that if we do not act quickly and decisively, the case will drag on. it is also an advantage that bucharest and sofia have met all the required criteria specified in the process evaluation process. i also believe that additional conditions should not be imposed on eu countries that are in the process of joining the schengen process, even though some member states are debating this. we must protect the citizens of the union and not divide them, because europe must be open to the flow of citizens. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. all the schengen evaluation reports confirm that further delay in a decision on this matter is unjustified. i call on the polish presidency to act in accordance with the treaty and to bring about the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. it is unacceptable to impose additional criteria on these countries. these countries have effectively fulfilled the criteria which apply to all other members of the union and should be in the schengen area without further delay.
in writing. - bulgaria and romania have fulfilled all the requirements imposed on them by the union. the schengen area should therefore be opened to them. we must fulfill our obligation to these countries. the rules don't change during the game.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 13 october 2011.
i would like to make a few preliminary remarks. we have a week of important decisions for europe. i attended the european council yesterday and the eurogroup and european council summits on wednesday. these countries will have to make decisions that will reassure the markets and, therefore, our citizens. the european council will be held in brussels on the same day as the european council in strasbourg. thursday at 10:00 a.m. is a very important debate. the european parliament is also expected to vote on the budget on wednesday. we want the 2012 budget to be a budget for investment, growth and job creation. i would like to thank all my colleagues who took part in the conference on the new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. i would remind you that this was an initiative of the european parliament, we came up with this idea. this conference was a successful meeting and it is proposed that it be continued in six months and in a year. i would like to emphasize once again that some 30 representatives of the european parliament were present throughout the proceedings. so we were very visible, it was an important substantive voice in the discussion. in other news, tunisians voted yesterday in their country's first free, democratic elections. this is a historic moment for tunisia and the entire arab world. more than 90% of those eligible voted in a peaceful and responsible manner - that's what the information, the data, says. we wish the new parliament and the future government every success. e european parliament's observation mission was on the ground to observe the elections. we'll have their report in the next few days. on sunday, i will personally visit tunisia, the second time i have been to the country since the arab spring. we all in the european parliament believe that north africa is a very important place for the whole european community today. libya, another of our southern neighbors, can now fully begin its march to democracy and establish a transitional government. the new political system of this country will have to be based on the rule of law and respect for the fundamental freedoms of all citizens. i'm also heading to libya this saturday to meet with our partners and discuss the most pressing issues. i'm going there with satisfaction because the country is now fully free, and its citizens have suffered so much under muammar gaddafi's more than four decades of dictatorial rule. another piece of news: last week we received good news for spain and all its citizens. the declaration by the terrorist organisation eta of the definitive cessation of hostilities must involve eta's self-dissolution and the laying down of arms by its members. we respect the efforts of all spanish democratic institutions and law enforcement agencies to combat terrorism over many years. democracy has once again won against terrorism in this long-term, long-term battle. we also express our solidarity with the families of the 829 victims of eta's terrorist activities over more than 40 years. tragic news is coming from turkey, where more than 200 people were killed in the earthquake that struck that country on sunday. on behalf of the european parliament, i offer my condolences to the families of the victims. we join the turkish people in grief today. i ask all my colleagues to rise and observe a minute of silence for the victims of the earthquake in turkey.
the committee on transport and tourism submitted a correction to the european parliament resolution of 27 september 2011 on road safety in europe 2011-2020. pursuant to rule 216 (4), an amendment shall be deemed to have been approved unless, not later than 48 hours after its publication, a political group or at least 40 members request that it be put to the vote. so we're not voting today. i'm making this statement to you. you have 48 hours to file a motion to vote. the text of the correction is available on parliament's website.
thank you for your remark. we will check it immediately.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure, was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 20 october 2011. the following changes are proposed: [tuesday]: i have received a request from the green group/european free alliance to include statements by the council and the commission on the european council's negotiations on the economic crisis on tomorrow's agenda at 3 p.m. i would urge the green group to give this proposal a wider presentation.
i see. the conclusion is clear now. it is also clearly stated. it will be a statement by the political groups, one after the other, and of course a statement by the council and the commission to begin with. (parliament adopted the proposal) ladies and gentlemen! we'll have a fresh start tomorrow. the start of the debate on the various items will be postponed to tomorrow at 3 p.m. the debate that awaits us will last about 45 minutes, and that's about how much all the subsequent points will shift. it's not a big change in our schedule in terms of the time we'll have available tomorrow afternoon and evening. so we put that item in and move the timing of the next items. (the order of business is approved)
thank you very much, mrs. lulling, for your attention. we'll check that spot carefully. that was the decision made at the conference of presidents meeting on thursday, but let's look at the problem. i'll contact you personally to clarify this matter further.
the next item is the report by mr ádáma kós, drawn up on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the mobility and integration of people with disabilities and the european disability strategy 2010-2020 (2010/2272 (ini)) (a7-0263/2011).
madam president! among the disabled, those who cannot move independently are the most vulnerable. i know of a case in my country of a man who cannot move and has great difficulty in acquiring a wheelchair because he has to contribute to its purchase and it becomes impossible for him. it seems that our efforts, whether at european or national level, should be directed towards ensuring that such people are able to move freely, to leave their homes and enter the world. it shouldn't be contingent on any fees. such a man should simply have the right to be able to move about freely. i congratulate the report and i am glad that this very important issue of disabled people is being discussed in parliament and is of interest to the european union.
in writing. people with disabilities make up a large proportion of the european union's population, but they often face marginalization, difficulty finding work and limited opportunities to provide for basic needs. many of them live in poverty, are discriminated against and excluded from participation in education and social life. the report on mobility and integration of disabled people, adopted by the european parliament today, proposes a number of solutions that will help to develop more specific actions to improve the living conditions of disabled people. however, two important issues must not be overlooked: the need to involve the people concerned in the decision-making process that directly affects them, and the fact that in many cases it is at national level, rather than at the level of the eu institutions, that solutions can be found that are best adapted to the needs of the disabled people living in them. the report adopted today, however, places a strong emphasis on the creation of new eu-wide regulations, which, moreover, are intended to be more inclusive than those for disabled people. that is why, despite the many good suggestions in the text, i abstained.
in writing. the draft resolution is about a very important social issue that is certainly still in our minds, but since it does not directly affect most of us on a daily basis, we unfortunately pass it over to the agenda. i therefore welcome the report on mobility and integration of disabled people. i hope that today's debate will help to remove many of the barriers that people with disabilities still face in our societies. because you have to have strategies, but what's very important is that you have to execute them. removing barriers to mobility, access to new technologies, employment and social exclusion for people with disabilities are just some of the challenges we face today. i therefore urge the commission to develop mechanisms for all member states to ensure that people with disabilities have equal opportunities for active life and social integration.
madam president! the public tender debates in the imco committee were indeed very lively, engaging and very interesting. i also want to thank heide rühle very much for this report. those of you who were in krakow for the single market forum will remember how representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises complained that many tenders were virtually inaccessible to them. you may remember the story of fin, who was asked at the last minute to provide documents in bulgarian and some additional documents, which he did not have time to provide and was therefore excluded from the tender, and so on. in the light of all this, i am particularly pleased with what i have just heard from the commissioner. the commission's legislative proposal meets exactly those expectations, which are extremely high, not only among us parliamentarians, but indeed among european society, business people in particular. the commissioner's emphasis on the need for a separate legislative proposal for concessions in order to open up the market and increase transparency here also seems to me to be extremely important and very worthy of support. i would agree with malcolm harbour that time is of the essence here. we need to work on these documents very quickly, because legislative changes are needed today.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as the shadow rapporteur of the ppe on the amendments to the late payments directive, i would like to refer to this issue again. there are still huge disparities in the situation of smes in different countries. unfortunately, the poor situation of many smes in these countries, which was already difficult in 2008-2009, has only worsened. the available data show that only a minority of them have improved their situation in terms of late payment. the proposal by commissioner tajani to ask the member states to implement the provisions of this directive as soon as possible is a very good initiative and i join in that appeal. companies need timely settlement of payments and commitments more than they did when we had the opportunity to debate amendments to the directive.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to emphasise at the outset that the success of the europe 2020 strategy and the state of the european economy depend to a large extent on smes reaching their full potential. there are currently around 23 million smes in the eu, employing around 67% of all private sector workers. the small business act (sba) is the eu's policy framework for empowering smes to grow and create jobs. between 2008 and 2010, the commission and eu member states implemented the sba measures to reduce administrative burdens and facilitate access to finance and new markets for smes. commissioner tajani himself said: 'small and medium-sized enterprises account for over 99% of all businesses in europe and employ over 90 million people. they're the engine of our economy. they must be strong, competitive and innovative. member states must act quickly to fully implement the small business act. although most of the initiatives under the sba have been launched, a review of the progress made so far in implementing the sba shows that more intensive action is needed to support smes and that the european commission should rely more strongly on actions to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in many member states, large family charters have been introduced at both national and local government level. the main purpose of their operation is to provide help and support to large families. each of these cards entitles families to the benefits granted to them by the issuing body to varying degrees. unfortunately, there is no european-wide regulation that would give large families the same rights throughout the union. in my view, both the european parliament and the commission should reward families with many children by creating at least general principles for the introduction of the european charter for large families. therefore, recognising both the need to give greater value to large families in ageing european societies and the fact that the european charter for the large family would be an effective instrument for the implementation of family policy throughout the community, i urge the commission to take immediate action in this regard.
madam president! the european commission recently unblocked legal documents on the provision of aid to the poor under the european food aid programme. the programme benefits some 18 million people in the union and the value of the aid is eur 480 million. the commission presented its proposal, which envisages maintaining the aid at its current level. the commission also suggests that the programme be financed 100% from the union budget. however, the european court of justice has objected to the formal case on the programme. it considers that it is worth supporting, but is subject to the social policy of the member states and cannot be covered by the union budget. at the penultimate meeting of agriculture ministers, several countries agreed with the court's arguments. if the proposal is rejected, the union's assistance to the poorest will be significantly reduced. we can't let that happen. what does the european commission intend to do in this situation?
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. today i have the honour to present to you the report on the peer review process in the services directive. as the commissioner is aware, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is keenly interested in the state of play and the results of the implementation of the services directive, a directive which i consider to be one of the most important pieces of legislation in recent years. we have therefore looked with great interest at the peer review process and its outcomes and at the proposals for further action to strengthen the eu services market. the report on the peer review process addresses three issues in particular: firstly, the experience of the peer review process in the services directive; secondly, the focus on the outcomes and follow-up to be taken to deepen the common market for services; and thirdly, the focus on the peer review process as a tool for future policy instruments. the imco committee considers that the mra should be considered as a valuable form of cooperation. it enabled the administrations of the member states to become familiar with the implementation of the services directive in other countries and the solutions adopted. the peer review process is also a vast compendium of knowledge which gives us a fuller, though not yet fully complete, picture of the situation on the community market after the implementation of the services directive. i therefore believe that the application of the peer review process to other policy areas should be considered appropriate. however, due to the time-consuming nature of this process and the high labour costs involved, this instrument should be applied selectively, always on the basis of an analysis of individual cases and in relation to the key provisions. we also believe that the whole process should be made more transparent, for example by regularly informing stakeholders about the progress of the discussions. in this report, we refer to and support the next steps that the european commission proposes based on the peer review process. commissioner, we have not forgotten in the course of the report that the first and foremost priority in building the single market for services is the full and comprehensive implementation of the services directive in all member states. unfortunately, today, almost two years after the directive was implemented, we have not yet reached that stage. the european parliament wants to be kept regularly informed of the progress of implementation work. we also believe that the european commission should take action against the member states to enforce the implementation. we look forward with particular interest to reports on the economic evaluation of the implementation of the directive and its impact on the functioning of the services market. we want to see if the savings that businesses expect from the implementation of the directive are taking place, where changes need to be made and where expectations have been overstated. at a time when the most heated debates are about national budgets and the need to cut spending, we cannot afford to lose sight of the opportunities that the directive offers, especially since 9 out of 10 new jobs in the eu economy are created by the services sector. i believe that more attention should be given to further actions aimed at improving the functioning of the internal market for services, focusing in particular on those areas which can bring the greatest added value. we also need to look carefully at the application of the freedom to provide services clause. commissioner, with this report, the imco committee wants to show its commitment to the implementation and monitoring of the directive. i would like to stress once again that the most important thing at this stage is to ensure that the provisions of the directive are implemented and applied correctly and that the single points of contact are fully operational.
madam president! in europe, we have more and more single fathers and more and more single women. more and more children with the so-called key around their necks left unattended in the afternoon. it is good that the european parliament is speaking out on the issue of the difficulty of single parents in being competitive in the labour market. it is very important to create the conditions, the instruments, to support single mothers and fathers in their daily struggle. europe should provide more programmes to support single parents in their labour market activities. these programmes should, on the one hand, improve qualifications, enable people to acquire new skills, teach self-employment, but also provide childcare during education, make it easier for single mothers and fathers to access education and to acquire new skills in order to remain competitive on the labour market. ensuring that their career ambitions are fulfilled is very important for the happy development of a child. i have also mentioned single fathers on purpose in my speech, because i think that this report should also cover fathers, even if their number is much smaller.
in writing. the key to fighting organised crime is the use of tools to penetrate, infiltrate, confiscate the assets of convicted persons and effectively protect victims. the financial and economic aspects of criminal groups are particularly important. the introduction of extended forfeiture into national law has been highly effective in this respect. at present, such a system exists in only 12 eu countries and it should therefore be the task of the european commission to make it compulsory throughout the community. the characteristic feature of such a system is that it is not necessary to prove beyond dispute the criminal origin of the property, but only to justify this fact according to the standards laid down for the national procedure. it is the defendant's responsibility to prove the legality of the source of the property in question. such a provision makes it easier to deprive offenders of the benefits of crime. it should be stressed that a clear distinction should be drawn between the question of establishing beyond doubt the culpability of the offender and the question of depriving him of the benefits of crime, where the probable criminal origin of the property is sufficient. in order to ensure that the system is efficient and fully fair, safeguards should be put in place to protect the citizen against possible abuses by the authorities, for example, the power of the court not to issue a confiscation order in a situation where this would be unfair. due to the global nature of organised crime, cooperation in this area with the countries neighbouring the union should also be strengthened.
madam president! for the past few months, we have been engaged in a continuous debate on the future of the european economy. the instruments proposed by the european commission are being implemented in a hurry and after a while they turn out to be insufficient. the debate today shows that a similar situation exists for the european semester. i would like to express my concern at the voices that are being heard about the desire to divide the european parliament into a group of members who are involved and those who are not involved in the work of overcoming the crisis. there are still attempts to create a two-speed europe at every level. today, depriving meps from non-euro area countries of the right to decide the fate of the single currency will serve to perpetuate divisions rather than to develop effective solutions. it should be borne in mind that most of these countries are planning to adopt the euro in the near or distant future and are as keen as others to improve the mechanisms of the economic and monetary union. what we need now is more cohesion and closer cooperation. the crisis has affected all member states. parliament represents not the member states or the euro area but all the citizens of the union, and the situation of the single currency determines the fate not only of the people of france, germany or greece but also of the countries seeking to adopt it.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. our friend, deputy rivellini, said, "the dice have been tossed". not the bones, just the bones. i do not see caesar in the european union and i will be honest with you: if the rubik's cube was a breakthrough then, we are certainly not crossing the rubik's cube or the rhine now. we are certainly dealing with another of those european tangos, a competition between the council and parliament, which is repeated every year. those of us who have been here at least one term remember that it's like this practically every year. it is a never-ending story that shows that the powers of the european parliament are not sufficiently recognised by the council all the time, and in this respect, in terms of budgetary control, these powers are very, very important. we can't support this discharge.
madam president! mr geier has presented our position as socialists and democrats on this matter. the committee on budgetary control is also guided by the following principle: while respecting the balance between the various institutions of the european union, we continue to stress the importance of transparency in the financial clearance process. we are of the opinion that it is we, the parliament, who represent the citizens, who represent the electorate. we are at a historic moment where every euro spent from public money should be presented to everyone for clear accounting. we were concerned about the trend that had been developing over the years, namely the council's reluctance to have such a full and open dialogue, regardless of the presidency; whether it was a social democrat or a right-wing one, the position was always the same. we therefore believe that there is something hidden in the administrative, bureaucratic part of the council and we would like to see good cooperation begin.
in writing. the ongoing debt crisis has shown that the current european economic governance system is not effective in preventing crises from arising and spreading. the european semester is a cycle of peer reviews of eu countries' budgetary plans, which allows for the use of economic policy surveillance in the eu to prevent the emergence of major fiscal and structural problems. the first european semester was inaugurated on 1 january 2011 and, as experience has shown, this procedure needs to be improved. in most cases, the commission's recommendations to member states have been watered down by the council, which may in future interfere with effective economic coordination. this also demonstrates the superiority of the community method over the intergovernmental method in this area. in future, therefore, the role of parliament should be strengthened at the expense of the council when further regulations are drawn up, since this would make the shape of final recommendations independent of national political interests. the position of parliament can be strengthened, inter alia, by institutionalising the so-called economic dialogue, in particular by setting up a special parliamentary committee on the european semester. in the context of such a committee, meps could, among other things, ask the council to justify changes to the commission's recommendations and invite finance ministers from countries that have not implemented the recommendations to their meetings. the explicit involvement of parliament will enhance the democratic legitimacy of the whole procedure, as well as the integrity of european law and the transparency of the institutional structure.
member of the commission. − i fully agree with the various comments that you have made on medicinal products. medicinal products are an integral part of a cure, and as time goes on we are going to find that they are going to be increasingly integrated with pharmaceutical products to provide a cure for our citizens. i agree that at the moment there is no harmonisation of the notifying bodies across europe. i agree that we need more harmonisation and coordination, also for the sake of the competitiveness of the industry, which is a very important consideration, but most importantly with a view to assuring quality for our citizens. i do agree that there is a big disparity in quality across the various notifying bodies, and this is why some coordination of standards and operations is important. i hope that in the proposal we will be coming up with, we will be proposing a focal point where this coordination will take place.
member of the commission. - i shall be relatively brief on this subject because, as you said, it is a very recent judgment of the court of justice. this is an important judgment because it deals with a very sensitive subject, namely research into, or patentability of, research into so-called stem cells. therefore, madam member, i simply ask you to understand that the european commission will naturally respect this judgment of the court of justice, and we will be forced, together with my colleagues who are directly concerned, as i am, by this patent issue, to work on this judgment and analyse all its implications. i would therefore ask you to understand that we need time, since this judgment is only a few days old. we shall come back to parliament to say what the consequences are. this does not, of course, prevent us from continuing our work under the authority and the impetus of the polish presidency to finally achieve, on the whole, a settlement of this patent issue, which has been pending in europe for some thirty years, and which we hope to settle within a few weeks, on the basis of the proposal made by the european commission for a single title of protection supported today, thanks to the treaty of lisbon and the so-called enhanced cooperation, by twenty-five countries. i still hope that the two countries which have not joined this enhanced cooperation - italy and spain - will be able to do so. anyway, the door is open.
member of the commission. - we have no intention of waiting. it is simply a matter, as you have said, of many sensitive and particularly strategic issues, such as europe's ability to maintain its dominance in research. i can only add, to complete my earlier reply, that we are not going to take years or months to analyse the consequences of this court of justice judgment. we shall be taking a very specific look at the application of the biotechnology directive, since it is directly affected by the consequences of this judgment. the commission will therefore report to your assembly on the implementation and application of this directive in the light of the court of justice judgment.
i'm not going to let you do this. one of the most significant shortcomings of the single market is the underdevelopment of european online trade. it is estimated that removing barriers resulting from differences in the rules on sales contracts between member states could increase turnover by 40%. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the issue of the 'blue button' with the council. what action does the european commission intend to take to speed up the work on this solution? the european commission is proposing the introduction of a european professional passport. in view of the lack of regulation of certain professions in some member states, would it not be necessary to introduce in the proposed directive an obligation for member states to establish minimum requirements for professional qualifications?
member of the commission. - madam member, i would like to say to you - and i say this in good cooperation with my colleague neelie kroes who is standing next to me - that we are indeed working on all aspects of the digital single market, which is a formidable challenge and a source of growth. it is not enough, as you have said, madam member, that online commerce is not working properly. i think that e-commerce accounts for 5 to 6% of trade. we are clearly keen to develop a strategy in this area to make more effective use of european law and to avoid this fragmentation. you referred to the proposals, the blue button ideas and other very proactive ideas of the polish presidency. i shall shortly be presenting a transversal approach which brings coherence to all the actions at european level in these areas, both in terms of redress - because when we talk about electronic commerce, we talk about many administrative or fiscal handicaps or problems, which are naturally obstacles to the development of the online market - and in terms of payments, delivery, protection, consumer information, the development of legal supply and cross-border supply. we have no plans to revise the e-commerce directive, but we may announce additional measures on notification and withdrawal procedures, but also, as i have just mentioned, on other issues relating to payments, delivery, which will be the subject of green papers, data protection and dispute settlement. these are all the provisions which will be the subject of this strategy and of this proposal which the commission will present to the european parliament very shortly.
madam president! i have not received an answer to my question on occupational passports and the differences in the member states in the definition of minimum professional qualifications.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's public procurement policy must be a stimulus to economic development, with particular attention to small businesses, but there will be no development without preserving the principle of competitiveness, which is the basis for economic development. in times of crisis and mass bankruptcies, only a simple, clear and unambiguous public procurement policy can have the desired effect. any other action will be a stimulus to bureaucracy, and that kills entrepreneurship. the only way to preserve this process is to give the public full access to this information. the reform of the system must therefore be carried out by the council and the commission themselves, which block access to information, even in contravention of the lisbon treaty.
mr. chairman, please! simplifying european public procurement law is undoubtedly in the interest of all member states. it will promote sustainable employment, innovation and the development of research projects. the economic crisis has led to a strong emphasis on financial criteria at the expense of quality in the selection of tenders. the proposal to make it compulsory to award contracts to the most economically advantageous tender, thus ensuring the best use of resources, may therefore be an interesting solution. ensuring transparency, non-discrimination and competition is the overriding principle of the functioning of public procurement regulation. the commission's support for the public procurement process by promoting best practices and methods, by organising exchanges of experience, training programmes can also contribute to improving their quality. the proposals for facilitating smes, for example the principle of requiring only the original documents from the successful bidders, are worthy of note. i also voted in favour of this report, given the increase in public procurement online.
mr. chairman, please! the services directive plays a leading role in the formulation and functioning of the single market for services in the european union. one of its main provisions remains the freedom to provide services. as practice shows, the provision of cross-border services remains a major problem. it is therefore important to deepen cooperation between the commission and the individual states in order to develop a smooth mechanism for the operation of the directive in this area. the european parliament must also be kept fully informed of the progress of this work. the peer review process itself therefore seems to play a positive role. however, i agree with the need to clarify the provisions and the requirement that mutual evaluation should take place after the full implementation of the directive. i also welcome the proposal to extend the application of the mutual evaluation method to other framework directives. this could become an important tool for monitoring the application of the rules in individual member states. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i would like to explain why i voted to discharge cepol. as a member of the committee on budgets and shadow rapporteur responsible for the agencies, i welcome the solutions proposed by the new cepol management, which contribute to the effective implementation of the multiannual action plan, increase transparency and reduce the costs of managing the college. i also think that introducing procedural changes such as excluding teaching experts from the tender procedure is a good move, as it contributes both to the better performance of the agency's tasks and to the rationalisation of expenditure. i hope that the court of auditors' assessment of the implementation of the procurement plan will be favourable and that cepol's management will make every effort to respond positively to the european parliament's expectations.
in writing. - i would like to refer to the implementation of the budget by the european police college. this body was set up in 2001 and became a community body on 1 january 2006. this gave parliament and the court of auditors additional powers to evaluate the college's budget. in their analyses, the court and parliament raise objections to the implementation of the budget by the college of police officers. the college is trying to take that into account. it's like this every year. i think the key is in the other solution. we need to bring together the police academy and europol. this would be the only way to achieve measurable operational results, reduce costs and deliver financial benefits.
in writing. - in my remarks, i would like to refer to one aspect of the document prepared by mr stavrakakis, namely the positive image of this and other agencies. the problems of obtaining discharge from cepol and the european medicines agency have a very negative impact on their perception both among us, the members of the european parliament, and among european citizens. i believe that in order to regain its credibility, the european medicines agency should follow all the recommendations of the court of auditors. at the same time, i would like to congratulate the agency on the efforts it has already made to improve its operations and on the implementation of three recommendations from the ias audit of 2009 on human resources management. these examples of the agency's work convinced me to vote in favour of adopting the report and thus in favour of granting discharge to the european medicines agency.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i am pleased that the european parliament has accepted another initiative on alternative dispute resolution in civil, commercial and family matters (adr). i already stressed the benefits of the mediation directive at the september plenary session, and today i would like to emphasise once again the importance of these underappreciated but very effective tools for resolving disputes outside the courtroom. citizens should be guaranteed access to justice, while at the same time being properly informed and encouraged to use alternative solutions that are not only much cheaper but also much faster. the uk is currently the european leader in the use of adr methods. since march 2001, government agencies have been required to apply adr to all relevant cases where the other party agrees. the department of constitutional affairs in a published report for 2002-2003 acknowledges that the use of adr by government departments has increased by over 1200%. i therefore encourage member states to follow the uk example, while at the same time calling for clear steps to be taken to evaluate adr bodies, improve information programmes and campaign to encourage consumers to use this dispute resolution method as well. i agree with the rapporteur's position on minimum adr standards, the use of best practice models, and greater transparency of proceedings and their promotion by eu information bodies.
in writing. − the report on alternative dispute resolution follows on from the previous plenary session's vote on the implementation of the mediation directive, a step towards identifying non-judicial means of exercising one's rights and resolving conflicts. despite the different instruments in the legal systems of the member states that can often resolve disputes in a cheaper, shorter and less stressful way for both parties, european citizens and businesses do not trust these mechanisms. arbitration, mediation and all kinds of out-of-court negotiations are still unknown and therefore not trusted by society. the widespread view that the agreement thus reached between the parties would not be legally binding also continues to prevent the full use of these instruments. arbitration is, in my view, a good alternative to a whole range of conflicts, including the very delicate area of family law. i agree with the report's argument that minimum standards should be set to provide a framework for adr in the member states. however, these proposals must not overshadow the diversity of the system and must allow for flexibility in responding to citizens' concerns, which is the greatest advantage of any amicable dispute settlement method.
in writing. − as a farmer, i am well aware of the importance of the tractor, and even its indispensable role in the daily work of the farm. over the last decades, the development of motorisation has allowed the production of increasingly advanced models of these vehicles, as well as the assembly of specialised types of tractors designed to work on specific terrains with specific crops (such as vineyards). tractors in these categories (t2, c2 and t4.1) are called narrow-track tractors. due to their design, the installation of exhaust gas cleaning systems in the engine compartment is significantly impeded. manufacturers need more time to develop new technologies that will allow the use of systems that reduce emissions without compromising the safety and efficiency of these tractors. in this context, i fully support the european commission's proposal to postpone the date for the introduction of stages iiib and iv of directive 2000/25/ec for narrow-track tractors.
in writing. − in line with the europe 2020 strategy, we are seeking to increase the employment of disabled people and people with reduced working capacity. this requires concrete action and long-term investment. we need to increase the participation of people with disabilities in public life, guaranteeing not only the right to vote but also to stand for election and to hold office; to ensure their mobility, that is, the freedom and ease of movement; to enable access to services adapted to their level of disability, such as websites for the blind; to guarantee adequate access to education; and to eliminate the increased risk of living in poverty. to achieve these goals, it is also necessary to improve the system of communication and data exchange between member states, as according to the consultation carried out by the european commission, we still have too little information on disabled people living in the european union.
in writing. - i am in favour of the new and effective approach to the problem of disabled people proposed by the european union countries. i believe that we should combat all forms of discrimination against people with disabilities and strive to improve their situation, not only in life but also in work. we should strive to introduce a uniform law for disabled people throughout the community. i support the idea of a european committee on disabilities, which is why i voted in favour of the report by ádáma kósa on mobility and integration of disabled people.
in writing. − people with disabilities make up a large proportion of the european union's population, but they often face marginalization, difficulties in finding work and the ability to provide for basic needs. many of them live in poverty, are discriminated against and excluded from participation in education and social life. the report on mobility and integration of disabled people, adopted by the european parliament today, proposes a number of solutions that will help to develop more specific actions to improve the living conditions of disabled people. however, two important issues must not be overlooked: the need to involve the people concerned in the decision-making process that directly affects them, and the fact that in many cases it is at national level, rather than at the level of the eu institutions, that solutions can be found that are best adapted to the needs of people with disabilities living in those countries. the report adopted today, however, places a strong emphasis on the creation of new eu-wide regulations, which, moreover, are to be geared away from the disabled themselves and towards a much wider range of social groups. that is why, despite the many good suggestions in the text, i abstained.
in writing. − i supported the ep resolution on mobility and integration of disabled people and the european disability strategy 2010-2020. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i draw particular attention to the need to integrate gender issues into the european disability strategy 2010-2020. nearly 80% of women with disabilities are victims of violence. they are at higher risk of sexual violence because of their physical, economic, social or psychological dependence on others. in cases of domestic violence, women with disabilities stay with the perpetrator almost twice as long as able-bodied men. a disabled woman is discriminated against on two grounds: gender and disability. public campaigns on the situation of disabled people, in particular women with disabilities, and awareness-raising activities are therefore necessary. it is also important to optimise the use of the structural funds for these purposes and to increase the possibilities for funding such actions in the programmes after 2013. i support the european parliament's call on the commission to assess further action taken in the context of the european structural funds, with particular reference to the rural development fund, to assist people with disabilities in rural europe in their civic engagement.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur for reminding us of the challenges of integrating people with disabilities. mr ádám kósa rightly stresses the importance of respecting the rights of disabled people, who are not properly respected because of a number of barriers. people with disabilities are more vulnerable to poverty, and we must therefore strive to create the most favourable conditions for people with disabilities to participate actively in professional and social life in all member states. i see that disabled people do not know their rights every day when i work for the committee on transport and tourism. at every station and airport in the european union, a disabled person is entitled to assistance under community law in respect of reduced mobility. unfortunately, most disabled travellers are simply not aware of this, and train station and airport staff do not inform them of their rights. it is therefore worth promoting the abolition of all restrictions and tolerance towards disabled people in the pursuit of a sustainable european society.
in writing. - too often, the lowest bid wins in public tenders. sometimes they are so low that there is a suspicion that the bid was deliberately understated and that the counterparty may have problems in meeting its obligations under prevailing market conditions. in discussions with entrepreneurs in my country, the issue of extremely low price offers is often raised. the entrepreneurs stress that price is important and cannot be excluded as one of the criteria, but there are limits to the economic viability of the bids, especially when the tender offers submitted differ significantly from the calculations of the authorities responsible for preparing and awarding the tenders. i therefore agree with the resolution's assumptions that we should use the criterion of the most economically advantageous tender covering all the life cycle costs of the goods, services and works to be procured.
in writing. - the free movement of workers within the european union has always been a very specific issue. as one of the fundamental conditions for the achievement of the european single market, the free movement of workers threatened to destabilise the economy of one or more member states. this is why transitional periods have been introduced in some countries to open up the market to workers from new countries. however, open migration has been found to have had a positive impact on the union's economic balance in the long run. of course, measures are needed to regulate and monitor the movement of workers and their entry into employment in eu countries. however, efforts should be made to remove all barriers that prevent europeans from taking up work on their home continent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on promoting worker mobility in the european union. i believe that this initiative will improve the legal situation of workers in the countries of the union. the free movement of workers is a strategy within the single market, which is why it is so important to support further initiatives in this area. during transitional periods, member states were granted the right to apply temporary restrictions in relation to the opening up of the labour market to new member states. member states feared the influx of immigrants from poorer countries, the loss of jobs for host nationals, and the lower wages resulting from the influx of cheaper labour. but none of these threats have been made before. i therefore believe that our aim is to support a policy of developing labour mobility. strengthen labour law across the european union. i also believe that it is necessary to adapt the rules within the member states so that they do not make it more difficult to recruit workers from other countries. monitoring and support for employment policies at national level is necessary. issues such as discrimination, social rights and family rights are very important issues that require support and cooperation at national and european level.
in writing. - as we know, the movement of workers within the community is enshrined in the european treaties. member states are given the right to temporary restrictions on employment policies, but i believe that labour migration has a positive impact on the whole of the european union, as it stimulates an economy that is responsive to needs and new challenges. in addition, the free movement of workers is a right of european citizens and government, local and regional authorities should implement legislation to promote the mobility of workers to a large extent. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr traian ungureanu on promoting the mobility of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on promoting the mobility of workers in the european union. the mobility of workers is an effective tool in combating unemployment, as it makes it easier to find a job. increasing the transnational geographical and occupational mobility of workers is particularly important in times of economic crisis, which has led to an increase in unemployment, especially among young people. the free movement of workers is one of the most important achievements of the european single market. however, despite eu legislation and programmes to promote it, too few europeans still exercise their right to work outside their own country. only 11.3 million europeans live outside their own country. this is 4 million more than a decade ago, but only 2.3% of the eu population. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i would like to draw attention to two issues: aid for women and pay inequality. it is necessary to provide women who follow their husbands or partners to another member state with appropriate services, such as courses to facilitate integration into a new social and cultural environment (language, occupational). women in the eu earn on average 17.5% less than men. it is necessary to develop national policies to address this inequality in line with the directive on equal pay for women and men.
in writing. - i voted for the document with conviction. i am glad that the rapporteur has raised a number of very important issues in it. the promotion of worker mobility throughout the community is of vital importance for its functioning and its cohesion. the right of eu citizens to work in each member state should be one of the elements of even greater integration between the individual eu members. i therefore hope that the european commission will look carefully at the need to simplify the administrative procedures for exercising the right to free movement of workers and will also take note of the comment in the document that it is important to promote the improvement of administrative practices and administrative cooperation in order to allow for synergies between national authorities. i am convinced that promoting the mobility of workers in the european union will definitely help to contain the growth of unemployment in the community, which currently stands at 10%, and may even help to reduce it in the future.
in writing. - the lack of economic coordination and adequate supervision of financial institutions is one of the many causes of the economic crisis that some eu countries are experiencing - a crisis that is global in nature - and of the lack of transparency in the financial markets. it is rightly said that the advanced economies are in a serious economic crisis. one of the reasons for this was the lack of the necessary coordination and then economic governance at the global level. it turned out that leaving everything to the "invisible hand of the market" without any state oversight was a mistake. the g20 is undoubtedly the key forum for exchanging views on the global economy today. however, this body is informal and does not have the attributes of an international organisation such as the ability to take binding decisions and oversee their implementation. another problem with the g20 is the lack of legitimacy from the international community. it seems to be an elite club of the world's largest economies. the lack of a broader basis for this forum is a serious obstacle to its credibility and needs to be considered. finally, in the face of such disparate and often conflicting national interests, is global economic governance even possible? i think it will be difficult to go beyond simple consultation and coordination of positions at political level, but it is still a lot to start with.
in writing. - statistics show that 5% of women in europe are single mothers. the rules vary across the eu, for example, single parents in austria, belgium, the netherlands and the uk enjoy tax relief. i believe that we should seek to harmonise the rules in this area and that family policy should not be sacrificed in the face of the current economic crisis and demographic problems in europe. we should also work out compromises to help single women reconcile work and family life, which is why i voted in favour of the report by barbara matera on the situation of single mothers.
in writing. - i fully share the rapporteur's commitment to the issue of single mothers and agree that the issues she raises have a significant impact on ensuring a decent life for all europeans and their descendants. unfortunately, the statistics are not favorable. women continue to represent the majority of those most at risk of violations of fundamental rights and unequal and unfair treatment. 70% of the world's poorest people are women. given the low natural growth rate in europe, we are doubly obliged to help mothers. the scale of the problem is very broad, it leads to the destruction of society from below and it affects all eu countries. in many lands, there is a lack of adequate support for single mothers. it is therefore worth supporting efforts to create a comprehensive system that will be an effective tool against all forms of discrimination against women in general and single mothers in particular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness. the september 2010 eurobarometer survey showed that europeans strongly support aid to developing countries (89% of respondents). as a member of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i strongly support this view. i am also pleased that the improvement in the management of grants proposed by the commission can save money while making existing aid more effective. we have only four years left to achieve the millennium development goals. that's a short time, especially in times of economic crisis, when countries are more economical with their money. but we must remember that the union is the largest donor of development aid in the world and that this gives us an additional responsibility for its effective implementation. the fourth high-level forum on effectiveness is crucial for the review of the mechanism for assistance to third countries so that at least most of the millennium development goals are met by 2015. it is also necessary to improve the involvement of third countries in the implementation of projects related to the mcr. gender equality needs special attention in development policy. gender equality must be taken into account in the action plan for aid effectiveness. this is a priority issue because women are much worse off economically than men.
dear colleagues, i have spoken to both presidents, van rompuy and barroso, today, telling them that i will inform them of the outcome of our debate in plenary. on sunday, in the opening speech at the european council, i argued that a decisive and comprehensive package needs to be defined to overcome the euro zone crisis, and that all eu institutions must come together. i reminded the european council that we are also the parliament of the euro zone. this is why i welcome that today, between the european summit on sunday and tomorrow’s meeting, we are taking the time to debate the short-, medium- and long-term solutions which are on the table. my conclusion from attending the european council is that there are three urgent topics left. the first is lowering greece’s debt burden, but we need to know how much, and in what way, private investors will be involved; certainly voluntary rescheduling. the second point: recapitalisation of european banks. crucial decisions were taken by the ecofin for all 27 member states, such as that capital adequacy requirements will go up to 9%. details on how the money will be raised on the markets, through national budgets and through the efsf have still to be decided. i believe that parliament should have a say on this. point number three, which is very urgent as well: the creation of a firewall around economies in difficulty. the european council should decide tomorrow on strengthening the role of the efsf by allowing it to leverage money through insurance mechanisms. there are two other proposals on how to strengthen the firewall: by creating a special purpose vehicle and by creating a trust fund with imf involvement. for the medium term, we need to give time for the strengthened stability and growth pact or ‘six pack’, the european semester, the euro plus pact, and all our incentives for growth to work. some competences may be national competences, but most member states agree that we need to coordinate much better at european level. the important question is: how do we move all these issues from an intergovernmental framework to the community method? it is clear that short- and medium-term solutions should be anchored in the eu institutions. for the longer term, there are discussions on a possible treaty change. the question is: what kind of change do we expect? are we ready to accept any changes? in the long-term perspective, we need to draw conclusions from this crisis and reflect on the eu’s future. if we truly want a strong eu treated seriously by the global players, then this crisis gives us an opportunity to act quickly. the main conclusion is that we cannot afford the situation of a unity which is a kind of fragmentation in reality. we know this in theory. in practice we talk about the eu, but we build our politics mostly on national levels. the union is like a dream, whereas the nation state is current business. this european dualism is perceived from outside as our weakness and it is used against our common strategic european interest. europe needs to be strong in a modern and multipolar world. europe is not only a common market but a coherent, political concept – maybe even a power – able not only to overcome crises but to have an impact on the modern world. (applause)
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the commission's statement on the wave of redundancies in europe as a result of the economic crisis, in particular for arcelor and nokia.
madam president! today, belgium, france, romania and poland. the question is, which countries will be next? we can blame one company, arcelor, but we can see that there's a problem with nokia. the question is, which companies will be next? very often in my conversations i hear from companies or large investors who say: 'we will have to move our companies out of europe'. we already discussed this in the european parliament five months ago: what can we do to prevent the relocation of our companies? now it's becoming a reality. we're only talking about this in the context of the crisis and the decline in steel sales, but we can also think about rising costs now. we have a climate policy, but it's a burden on businesses, and it will be a burden if we tighten the criteria even further. and it's in this context that many companies are saying that it could cost us further relocation. so the question is, is this a big wave, a beginning, or is this just the end and a few cases, and also how much job loss is still ahead of us? the worst part is that we may lose industry and not achieve our climate goals, because outside europe, these companies are free to expand their production, poisoning the atmosphere, contributing to global warming, and we are losing jobs here in europe. moreover, in the future, when the crisis is over, we will have to import this steel and pay extra for transportation and pollute the environment with this transportation. so i think we need to think very hard about how we can achieve the goals of industrial production while protecting the environment. the commission must step up its efforts to reach a global climate agreement, because this will not facilitate business relocation because of the much lower costs than in europe. at the same time, as discussed here, the question remains: what can be done to stop this industry in europe? so we have to balance different objectives so that the unemployment rate in europe does not rise, and we do not have to pay more from the globalisation fund this time, because that is another expense. (the speaker agreed to answer the question asked under the blue card rule under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i understand that you don't really want an answer to that question, because nobody wants europe to fail to meet its climate goals. it's just that we don't want to screw up certain targets to put the industry's competitiveness at risk, because we see what's happening right now. in times of crisis, there is a great need to balance policies and objectives. here you save, and there you have to pay extra, and unemployment is a social, economic and psychological cost.
madam president! we are talking today about the impact of the financial crisis on the increase in redundancies in europe, especially in large companies like nokia and arcelor. indeed, the former is planning to lay off some 3 500 employees in romania, denmark, finland and the united kingdom by the end of 2012, while the latter is planning to cut 1 000 employees in belgium and reduce production at its plants in spain. no decision has yet been taken on the fate of the 200 employees of the company from kraków and the continued operation of parts of the production in nowa huta and dąbrowa górnicza in poland. however, as the global economic situation deteriorated, other large corporations, such as opel and motorola, also found themselves in a more difficult situation. we must find a way to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis, because it will be felt first and foremost by ordinary people - the employees of these and many other companies, including small and medium-sized ones, and above all, we must remember that they are not the first to bear the costs of the economic crisis in the world and in europe.
madam president! there is no doubt that large companies, in the pursuit of profit, are cutting jobs, usually by the hundreds or thousands. certainly large companies should be supported, but only those where the reduction decisions are really justified and where they need help for the redundant workers. however, it should be borne in mind that of the 5 million jobs lost in europe during the crisis, a large proportion were in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. while helping the big ones, let us not forget that instruments must be put in place to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to create new jobs. they are the ones most likely to react effectively to a difficult labour market situation. the removal of administrative, fiscal and investment barriers for smes is essential to create new job opportunities for the five million people who have lost their jobs as soon as possible. smes can do this the fastest, most effectively and longest. while we're discussing the big ones, let's not forget the little ones.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - ms bastos' report comprehensively analyses the european labour market in the context of the difficult economic situation and the demographic changes we must not forget. in this context, i would like to recall the needs of women and the important role they play in raising employment levels. the actions to be taken by the member states and the european commission to increase the participation of women in the labour market must be integrated. these should be linked to the creation of an adequate number of childcare and elderly care facilities and the introduction of new and flexible forms of employment. it's the only way women can balance work and family. in addition, the untapped potential of women must be exploited, especially in those areas of employment where women are a significant minority and are the result of unequal treatment and the perpetuation of social stereotypes rather than their choice. in creating new jobs, both in existing sectors such as health and social services and in emerging sectors such as green and sustainable jobs, we should ensure that new jobs do not become the source of old and widespread gender discrimination. good patterns should be introduced from the beginning. in conclusion, i would like to stress that all these actions must be reduced to one common denominator. member state governments need to review the application and enforcement of anti-discrimination laws, because many times we already have good laws, but the lack of effective application or effective safeguards perpetuates gender inequality in employment.
madam president! the rapidly changing economic reality is placing ever-increasing demands on europe's citizens in terms of the labour market. skills that were considered to be limited to a few professionals, such as computer skills, 20 years ago are now essential for most jobs. the european union should encourage as many of its citizens as possible to undertake what is known as 'lifelong learning' so that they can successfully face the new challenges posed by the labour market. increasingly, the european union must also ensure that it meets the demands of the future european labour market, especially for skilled workers. taking appropriate action to adapt europeans to an increasingly demanding labour market is particularly important today, in the context of the economic crisis afflicting the union. to get out of this crisis, we need economic growth on a massive scale. this growth cannot be achieved without a significant increase in employment. it is therefore important to ensure that union citizens are as well prepared as possible for the labour market challenges ahead.
madam president! the report confirms that the global economic crisis has clearly demonstrated the weaknesses of the european socioeconomic model. this is true, but it is important to note that none of these models have actually worked. both europe and america are not only beset by massive unemployment, but also by people who, despite having jobs, are unable to get out of poverty. moreover, this problem mainly affects young people, as exemplified by the current social movements called indignant or the 99% movement. this situation seems to have two major sources. on the one hand, the education system is failing to respond to the needs of a rapidly changing economy, and i think we have to finally admit that we are not able to predict exactly what skills will be needed, even in the next decade. thirdly, so-called 'junk' contracts create a feeling of insecurity among workers and thus destabilise the consumer market. you can't be a good consumer if you're not sure of your future. the union and its member states face a difficult task. on the one hand, it is necessary to create education systems that prepare young people for a rapidly and unpredictably changing labour market and that are supported by practical programmes. the stage project, which the rapporteur, mrs regina bastos, referred to, in which graduates are prepared for work, is a good example of this. on the other hand, it is necessary to apply flexicurity skillfully, which combines flexibility in the employment relationship with social guarantees, so that workers have a suitable standard of living, can develop their careers and draw up their pension scheme in a stable way. in addition, measures to promote entrepreneurship and to create a favourable environment for smes and investors are necessary. all these measures require immediate application and must therefore be planned in such a way that they can be implemented in the context of the ongoing economic and financial crisis. savings in the member states are necessary to ensure stable public finances. however, they should not undermine the creation of new jobs that will bring europe the much-needed sustained economic growth. finally, i would like to thank mrs bastos for her very good cooperation in the preparation of this report.
madam president! i would like to thank the rapporteur warmly for raising a number of issues which are relevant in the current economic crisis. a year on from the european commission's proposal for a new skills and jobs agenda, unemployment in europe is still rising. it can be said that european strategies are ineffective and out of step with reality. more and more people are being excluded from the labour market. member states are forced to reduce public spending, with very serious social consequences. in this context, it is important to unlock initiatives as soon as possible and to launch a number of european aid funds. the most pressing issue is undoubtedly the problem of employment of young people, university graduates and professionals. they often take jobs in very difficult conditions and with very low pay. i am in favour of creating incentives for entrepreneurs to develop apprenticeship programmes to enable young people to enter the labour market as soon as possible. this will help to reduce the scale of social exclusion of people entering adulthood.
i would like to point out that we have two opposing processes in europe. the first process is that the unemployment rate is constantly and steadily rising. you could say that there are actually two million new people coming in every year who can't find a job. but we also have a second process in europe, which is that there are growing deficits in certain areas. this is particularly true of technicians, computer scientists and many specialists in the broad field of health care. my proposal is that we should be much more supportive of those areas where there is a shortage of people to work, and we should remove the barriers that exist. a very large number of people acquire qualifications in their own countries and cannot take up employment in other countries because those countries do not recognise their skills.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would first of all like to congratulate mrs regina bastos on her comprehensive report. the rapporteur rightly points out that the national reform programmes do not sufficiently address the challenges of increasing employment and combating poverty. in its recently published draft regulations, the european commission has emphasised that the basis for future operational programmes will be national reform programmes. they therefore need to be improved in order to make effective use of the instruments of cohesion policy. the involvement of the regional and local level in their preparation, implementation and evaluation, and in the implementation of the flagship initiative discussed today, is also crucial. i hope that this initiative will help to unlock the potential of people who are currently disadvantaged in their access to the labour market, such as young parents, people with disabilities and carers, and that it will also encourage closer cooperation between educational institutions and businesses.
mr president, mr minister, i have to go. today we return to the subject of maternity leave. i think we need to look at the issue of maternity leave from a more than just an economic perspective. it is of course important that working women on maternity leave receive financial support to support their families. it is also important to consider how the entrepreneurs will cope with such additional costs if they are the ones to pay for the maternity benefits. how can we avoid a situation where employers avoid young women planning to become mothers for fear of the costs? these are very important issues and i understand that they are what differentiate the positions of the countries in the council and make it difficult to find a common position. but in all this, let's not forget what i think is most important about children. for the child and for the woman, the postpartum period is the only time that the mother can devote to her child without limit. moreover, if the european union is to meet the objectives of the 2020 strategy and avoid the consequences of demographic decline, it is necessary to make trade-offs. perhaps a little less ambitious than parliament has asked for. perhaps we should go back to the european commission's proposal? i call on the member states to reconsider the possibility of guaranteeing all mothers in europe a compromise of 18 weeks with their newborn babies. mr president, do you think that this is the solution that has a chance of finding a majority in the council so that we can actually provide 18 weeks of full paid maternity leave for all future mothers in europe?
in writing. the failure to agree to the european parliament's proposed amendments to the maternity leave directive shows the short-sightedness and narrow economic rationality of some politicians. the reconciliation of work and private life and the promotion of gender equality in the labour market need to be seen in a broader perspective. the decisions we make today will have long-term consequences. europe is facing not only a financial crisis, but soon a demographic one as well. it's getting older, and so our job is to create solutions that make it easier for families to make decisions about having and raising children. the lack of such solutions will have repercussions on future labour markets, insurance and pension systems. that is why maternity leave, guaranteed return to work after maternity leave and paternity leave are so important. the non-acceptance of the european parliament's amendments will be seen as an economic advantage, but it will be a short-term advantage. we must think about the future of europe today. we must also remember that the proposals in the report are intended to facilitate the implementation of the core european values of equality between women and men and non-discrimination in the labour market.
madam president! i would like to congratulate mr giegold on the report, which i can sign, but it is not easy because i am against the harmonization of direct taxes. and while i am a strong supporter of european economic integration, i would like to point out that an economic entity, for example, which we cannot say is economically integrated, like the united states, does not have harmonized taxes at all. we should compete on taxes, but we should harmonize procedures, rules, create a common market or eliminate barriers in the common market. but why would i sign this report? because i don't see it as an attempt to harmonize taxes. i see this report as an attempt to combat unfair tax dumping, because there is a difference between a rate of thirty or forty percent. by the way, there is not much difference between germany and poland in terms of personal tax because the german system of rebates makes this tax very similar to the german system. 10% is dumping and this must be combated. i would like to congratulate mr giegold on the 70% figures and to endorse the hopes you expressed to the commission, which should have been addressed to the council, which i regret to say is not here. i hope that you will face this problem and that we will indeed be able to take this step forward in this area, the step which the european parliament proposed and which was missing in this document which the council has presented to us. thank you very much. madam president, i'd like to point out that i'm the only speaker so far who hasn't exceeded the time limit.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by francesca balzani and josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, as amended by the council - all sections (13110/2011 - c7-0247/2011 - 2011/2020 ((bud)) (a7-0354/2011) and- report by reimer böggi, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance the europe 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy, in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the commission and the council on budgetary discipline and financial management (c3737/2011 - c7-0247/2011 - c7-0163/2011 (aud)) (com (2011) 0354 final).
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, commissioner and minister! in this committee we have basically one main position: the transeuropean transport networks. it was on this item that the proposal for cuts to the parliamentary draft was the largest, at over 10%. this is one of the commission's main priorities. more member states also claim that trans-european transport networks are among their national priorities. i therefore see no consistency in the minister's statement that the amounts of payments should not conflict with national priorities. in this case, it looks like they're arguing. i would like to welcome the position of commissioner lewandowski, who wishes to be our spokesman on the council's request for a reduction in payments.
mr. chairman, please! as in the previous year, we are facing difficult negotiations on the 2012 budget. i would like to emphasize a few points in parliament's position which i consider very important and which are largely a continuation of what the european parliament called for last year. i would like to draw particular attention to the amendments which increase funding for the lifelong learning programme, the 'youth in action' programme and the whole cycle of programmes linked to the seventh framework programme for research and innovation. i would very much like the council to look carefully at these amendments and to look favourably at the objectives that parliament is setting itself, so that the budget for next year pays particular attention to the issues of the innovation of the economy, of the possibilities and opportunities for young people, especially in a situation where youth unemployment is such a pressing problem and there is a continuing lack of the right skills to find a place in the labour market. we know, of course, that what the european budget and european policies are proposing in this area is not enough, but i think it is a very important signal indicating the direction in which the european union should go - the one related to promoting growth and employment. i am also pleased with the increase in cohesion payments proposed by the commission. parliament supports an increase in cohesion policy payments. i would like the council to support them too, because we can already see that these payments will be very much needed next year.
member of the commission. − mr president, our proposal for the new financial regulation was presented in may 2010, with the intention of agreeing on the rules of how to spend before discussing the volumes for the next financial perspective. first of all, i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteurs, ingeborg gräßle and mr rivellini, for their report on this very complex and technically very difficult dossier. i appreciate your patience in handling the issue for more than one-and-a-half years. as for the guiding principles of our proposal, they are all very much present in what is to be voted on today. by that i mean three guiding principles: simplification, pooling of resources and more accountability. regarding simplification, this was a clear request from everybody who was present at last week’s conference, with so many stakeholders asking for the lives of the beneficiaries of our grants and funds to be made easier. therefore, in response, we are facilitating simplification via the use of lump sums and other instruments, making it possible for the commission to assess and determine ex ante the amounts necessary for achieving the project. that is a step towards an outward-oriented philosophy and approach in grants and also in prices. the commission also has the same response to the overall criticism of the rules concerning recovering interest on pre-financing, which should not be due to the union. however, there are two parts, liebe inge, to this simplification procedure. on the one hand there are beneficiaries and on the other the commission, which is managing the budget and requesting some flexibility in the management of a budget in terms of the choice of implementing partners and not direct management. if we overburden the commission, this also slows down the procedure and payments to the final beneficiaries. if we overburden the commission with more reporting at a time when we are asking for a reduction of 5% in the commission’s human resources in the coming years, this also includes the burden of reporting, which is not in line with what we see as the essential savings in the administration of the european union. the same goes for transfers and buildings, where we have amendments which we cannot support because they represent a step backwards in relation to the transition rules agreed for implementation of the lisbon strategy. regarding delegated acts, this is an issue of respecting the common understanding on delegated acts. i do not think the financial regulation is the place to settle the horizontal interinstitutional issues, but we very much welcome parliament’s support in the area of management declarations of assurance. now we have on the table more or less the whole picture not only of financial regulation but also regulations on cohesion and agriculture, which are the biggest areas of spending, with clear management responsibilities on the part of the member states. we welcome the support for trust funds, making the visibility of the european union, as the greatest donor worldwide, visible. this is simply for visibility. as for the financial instruments which are to be standard tools in the future – not exceptional but standard, and considerably upgraded. in response to mr rivellini’s question, this is mainly to leverage private investment in the area of trans-european networks in energy, transport and research and development already tested. but it must longer be exceptional if we are to close the gap in transport networks in europe. i estimate that it must be up to eur 200 billion, with even more in energy. we have to leverage the euros spent from the european budget, and this is why we should not be limited as to the flexibility and cooperation of the european investment bank and the other institutions in leveraging the budget via private investment. finally, we are an honest broker for the final political agreement. i think we should make the financial regulation a coherent point of reference in establishing all sorts of rules for the future. we hope that we are much nearer to this goal.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president! - what are you doing? the nature of the document we're discussing right now is that it's not getting much attention from the public or the media. we have a lot of discussions about how much money there is going to be, but relatively less about how we're going to spend it, how it's going to be accounted for. for the committee on regional development, the completion of this regulation is particularly important as we are preparing to work on new regulations. the relationship between the so-called financial regulation and the regulations governing the individual funds is direct and will undoubtedly be much easier if certain aspects of accreditation, control and reporting, for example, are ready before the work on the regulations governing the structural funds is completed. in short, this regulation is extremely important for cohesion policy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
fellow workers! today we are officially launching the wireless internet wi-fi in the european parliament buildings. this allows you to use the internet anywhere in the european parliament's buildings. you can use laptops, tablets, or smartphones. the signal is available not only in the chambers, in the committees and other rooms, but also in the public space of parliament. virtually anywhere you are, you can use wireless internet. this is a huge change in the way we spend our time in the european parliament. we know that very well. i would like to take this opportunity to thank and congratulate the itec management team and vice-president rainer wieland, who is sitting next to me and who has been the guardian of this important project. wi-fi is one of the many innovations that we've introduced this year. i would like to remind you that the itec directorate-general and our fellow vice-president have also made the ep directory, the electronic voting system for plenary, ecommittee, at4am, europarl mobile and the ipex website available to members. as you can see, we've made a number of improvements to make our work easier. so i would like to congratulate the directorate-general and all the staff and services of this section of the european parliament, and our colleague mr wieland.
the next item is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes) we're voting today on a very important thing, which is the budget. as you know, the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament additional powers in relation to the budget. it is important that we take this vote very seriously, because the budget is an expression of our concern to strengthen the european union, to create a competitive economy and a union, to stimulate the high growth that our citizens expect and to create new jobs. this vote is long and i'd like to prepare you for it. a few of us have asked for a vote. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
thank you so much! we know that. we'll take that into account. these three conditions must be met. we remember all that.
thank you, lord! i agree with you. we'll turn this over to the services that are working with mrs. ashton.
sir! sir! what are you doing? we'll have this on the ballot in about 30 to 40 minutes. then we can get back to this case. ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪
i would like to thank the committee on budgets, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, and all the other rapporteurs who have worked on the budget. it was a joint effort by parliament. as you heard this morning, 16 committees of the european parliament have submitted their opinions on the budget. so it was our joint work. thank you so much for that. - after the vote is over,
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? high isbo! the european parliament has just adopted amendments to the draft budget, to the council's position on the 2012 draft budget. i have noted in detail both parliament's and the council's position on this budget. therefore, in accordance with article 314 (4) (c) of the treaty of lisbon, i agree that the president of the european parliament may convene a conciliation committee.
thank you, minister! as you know, the european parliament has this power under the treaty of lisbon. as i said, we have a special power to vote and approve the budget. we didn't have that kind of power under the treaty of nice. we'll begin the reconciliation process at the appropriate time.
i would like to congratulate mrs balzani and mr fernandez on the great work they have done, but also all of you, my colleagues, without exception. thank you so much for all your hard work!
in writing. − in times of financial instability and increasing austerity policies, like my s&d colleagues, i support the need to show solidarity to our citizens by decreasing our expenditure. however, i also support the need to identify more areas where structural changes can be introduced for making our organisation more efficient, less costly and more responsive to our needs as elected members of parliament. one illustrating example is the interpretation services in strasbourg. our meetings in strasbourg last until midnight and require ongoing interpretation services. since very few local interpreters can be used during these sessions, costs of interpretation for one full working day are 30% higher than in brussels. if we were to reduce these sessions by only one hour, to end at 23:00, we would be able to cut down expenditure on additional personnel and working hours. this small adjustment would allow a better organisation of our work and an annual saving of approximately eur 3 million. while this is merely one example for alternative ways to meeting our financial goals, many similar examples exists. still, as the current budget proposal strikes a balance between our institutional needs and needs of our citizen, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − today we voted on the draft eu budget for 2012. i myself voted in favour of this document because i fully support the position of my political group. i think we should make europe 2020 a key priority in next year's budget, and i am pleased that the ep has increased cohesion policy payments by 8.38%. this decision is very good for poland, as it will contribute to the further economic development of our country and will be a further driving force for the regions. i am also pleased that the ep has placed its trust in the innovation and competitiveness of european companies, which can apply for grants from the structural funds and proposed programmes such as the 7th framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme.
in writing. − the european parliament's approval of the agreement on the promotion, use and provision of services of the galileo and gps satellite navigation systems is an important step towards closer eu cooperation with the united states. it coincides with the launch last friday, 21 october, of the first pair of satellites of europe's global satellite navigation system. the whole system is expected to be operational in 2014. since gps and galileo are fully compatible, cooperation in this field will contribute to increasing the number of satellites visible from any location on earth and thus to improving the availability of navigation signals for users worldwide. moreover, the entry into force of this agreement will allow satellite navigation users to benefit from a wide range of enhanced services, which will be of great importance not only for car navigation users, but also for more efficient management of road transport and search and rescue services, and for more secure banking transactions and more reliable electricity supply. that is why i supported the report.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the negotiations between the european union and the united states on the interoperability of the galileo and gps satellite navigation systems have been concluded. it took a long time, because the talks started in 1999. it is worth noting that only temporary agreements are currently in force. it is time to replace them with a permanent contract, as the galileo system is beginning to develop after years of trial and error. the agreement on the mutual provision of services by gps and galileo will clearly benefit millions of users of these navigation services. by ensuring radio frequency compatibility and increasing the number of available navigation signals, the quality and accuracy of both galileo and gps will be improved. it will provide value-added services. this agreement is a success for the union as a whole and for all the countries that make up it.
in writing. − the european parliament today adopted its draft eu budget for 2012 of €147.766 billion in commitment appropriations. the majority of meps agreed that the europe 2020 strategy is a key priority for next year's budget, and we have therefore ensured adequate funding for its actions and policies. we therefore voted for, among other things, increased payments for research and innovation, cohesion policy and education. more money has also been allocated to, among other things, managing migration and refugee inflows. the european parliament has always supported youth, education and mobility policies financially, which is why we have increased funding for programmes such as lifelong learning, which funds the erasmus grants, which are popular among young people, and youth in action. the commission is also proposing to increase the appropriations for the 7th framework programme and programmes to promote competitiveness and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, since the competitiveness of european companies will have a key impact on the level of economic growth in the eu.
in writing. − i believe that eu countries should apply the employment policy guidelines alongside the broad economic policy guidelines to ensure the success of the europe 2020 strategy. despite the impact of the labour market crisis, human capital needs to be continuously strengthened, as this means europe is back on the path to economic recovery. it is important to raise employment levels, reduce administrative and bureaucratic burdens and provide businesses with the right tools to increase the skills of workers in line with labour market needs. that is why i voted in favour of the report by regina bastos on the new skills and employment programme.
in writing. - i supported the parliament's resolution on the new skills and employment programme. this is a very important report that will help to improve the eu's ambitious agenda for new skills and jobs, thereby strengthening human capital, improving employability and fostering social inclusion. one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to increase the employment rate of women and men in the eu to 75%. the employment rate of women in the eu is currently 58.2%, with wide disparities between member states. in my opinion on european cooperation in vocational education and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy, i pointed out that changing this situation requires an urgent improvement in the links between vocational education and training and labour market needs. this requires, inter alia, an increase in the provision of education and vocational counselling and the promotion of traineeships and vocational training for women. it is also important to create new training opportunities, including in science, mathematics and technology, to increase the employment opportunities of women in technical and scientific positions, in non-traditional occupations, in low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high-tech sectors. the new programme also calls for action to close the gender pay gap, improve the mobility of workers in the eu and mainstream solidarity and cooperation between generations in employment policies.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to go. it's nice to see a fellow citizen from my lodz region speaking on behalf of the council. i welcome the draft resolution which deals with a serious problem of human health. but i'm also glad that this project has seen the problem of large-scale industrial farms and the risks that come with using antibiotics on animals that are raised on these farms. these farms are very often run in outrageous conditions, animals are crowded in, deprived of space, deprived of movement, fighting each other, weakened, and in order to live, they are stuffed with antibiotics. then the meat is eaten by humans with all the negative consequences. we should indeed ban this kind of practice of preventive antibiotic use, but we should also ban this kind of breeding, which is anti-human and unworthy of the humanity of the 21st century.
madam president! i welcome the fact that the european parliament is leaning towards such an important document as the one devoted to the fight against paedophilia, the fight against crime against the weakest and most vulnerable. we must do everything we can to make sure that children in europe feel much safer. because this is the world of the internet, a world of permissiveness, with the spread of a permissive approach to sex life, sometimes crosses the line that is the harm of an innocent child. i am therefore very pleased that the directive is pushing individual countries to adopt much more stringent measures, imposing on these offences appropriately severe criminal sanctions. such offences should be punished with the appropriate severity and prosecuted with the appropriate consequences. it is also very important to respond to the emergence of this kind of pathology on the internet. it is therefore very important and worth noting that these elements are also noted in the relevant directive.
madam president! i think children's rights should be seen in a broader perspective. despite the fact that 90 million children live in the european union, they are still treated more as objects than as legal entities. in all member states, children are protected by the convention on the rights of the child and by many national regulations, and their protection in both physical and cyber space is not sufficient. there is a lack of coordination in the legal protection of these rights. in many lands, there is a widespread report of neglect in education, health, and social welfare. however, there is no institution to coordinate and monitor the activities for children. nor do all countries have child-protection services that are the first point of contact for children who are being abused. the system of family substitute care is not sufficiently developed and functional in all countries. the development of this system requires appropriate expenditure, including financial, and the provision of specialised support to foster families. as regards the rights of disabled children, a system of early support for a child with a disability should be established. training should be provided for doctors and medical staff to work with and assist children and their families. the fact that a european fund has not yet been set up exclusively to deal with children's problems is undoubtedly an obstacle to this. therefore, commissioner, i would urge you to consider the possibility of creating such a fund. i believe that the european union should play a key role in protecting children's rights by introducing additional regulations and strengthening cooperation between member states.
in writing. according to statistics, between 10 and 20% of children in europe are victims of childhood sexual abuse. the alarming fact is that the scale of sexual violence against children is increasing. the number of child pornography web sites is also increasing. combating sexual harassment and child pornography requires not only the involvement of social activists and politicians but also the cooperation of parents, teachers and school psychologists. there is a need for deeper cooperation in organising effective social campaigns to raise public awareness that pornography is not a marginal problem but a real threat to society. i personally believe that the eu's response to child pornography and child sexual abuse must be strong and decisive. i hope that a transnational cooperation programme will be established to track down, locate and punish those who exploit minors and to remove websites that distribute child pornography.
in writing. the scale of child sexual abuse is very large and affects all member states. a study conducted in poland by the children of no one foundation found that 9 percent of girls and 6 percent of boys under 15 had had sexual contact with adults. i call on all countries that have not yet done so to ratify the council of europe's lanzarote convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. i am particularly appealing to the polish presidency to set a good example and ratify the convention immediately. fighting sex crimes requires prevention. public information campaigns for children and parents are needed. it is necessary to introduce and finance school education programmes at eu level. the child must be aware of what situations and behaviours are dangerous and know to whom to report such facts. it's the only way we can reduce the scale of child sexual abuse. member states should organise regular training for officials who may have contact with children who are victims of sexual exploitation. they must be able to identify the crime and have the ability and competence to intervene. member states should also provide support to children and their families who have been harmed. international cooperation in the areas of crime prevention, protection of children in need and prevention needs to be adapted to today's requirements as a matter of urgency.
in writing. – protecting the young and innocent of the world is a fundamentally sound human rights choice. thus, the european union has continued its efforts to extend its influence worldwide and address the issue of child pornography. children are without a doubt the future leaders and require the protection of global institutions. therefore, the legislation being implemented by the eu is determined in its endeavour to protect all children. the european union has instituted (in brief) the following legislation: sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the rights of the child to protection and care as is necessary for his or her well-being, as stipulated by the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this legislation cannot and will not be taken lightly and represents the protection of the young and innocent citizens of our union. i strongly support this legislation and stand behind the eu’s decision to further protect the future and innocence of these children as they continue to grow and develop in the fabric of the christian values of the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, minister, i would like to thank you for your support. the ecr group finds several important and relevant things in this directive: for example, the statement that states are responsible for the conduct of asylum policy and therefore should be empowered to introduce or maintain provisions more favourable than the standards set out in the directive. we think that's a sensible and worthwhile point. we also consider it important and worthwhile to emphasize the principle of family unity. however, the ecr group will abstain on this directive because we have some doubts about the extension of the definition of family members and a rather narrow basis for refusing to grant status. our group believes that cooperation between member states and the european union on asylum and immigration should be coordinated rather than forced. that will be our abstention.
on behalf of the s&d group. on 27 september 2010, we celebrated the 15th anniversary of the institution of the european ombudsman. over a decade and a half, the ombudsman has conducted over 3 800 inquiries into maladministration and responded to over 36 000 complaints from individual citizens and european union companies who felt they had been the victims of errors or negligence on the part of the european institutions or agencies. to underline the importance of the ombudsman's role, it is worth mentioning that last year alone there were 2667 complaints registered. the ombudsman's initiative of periodically publishing analyses examining the action taken by the eu institutions following complaints lodged by him is particularly commendable. the ombudsman's office is gaining more and more trust from citizens every year and is becoming more and more friendly in its work. the promotion and improvement of the application procedure has resulted in almost 58% of complaints received last year being submitted via the internet, which has helped to speed up the processing of complaints, and the average duration of proceedings has been reduced to less than 9 months, which unfortunately is still too long for the citizen. many complaints could be avoided if citizens had easier access to documents from the eu institutions. transparency in decision-making and accountability of the union institutions should be the basis for contacts with citizens. unfortunately, the report clearly shows that these issues affected as many as 33% of all proceedings in 2010. i therefore look forward to concrete action to improve this situation as well. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the continuous and very good cooperation between the european ombudsman and the parliament's committee on petitions, on which i am now serving my second term. while hoping that the institution of the european ombudsman will continue to improve its work to ensure that citizens of the european union can enjoy their rights, i wish the ombudsman continued success, whose duties have been successfully carried out since 2003 by professor nikiforos diamandouros, whose work i personally greatly appreciate. in conclusion, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs iotov, on her excellent work.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. speaker, the commissioner is here. indeed, as rapporteur iotova said, the greatest number of complaints addressed to the ombudsman concern the work of the european commission. this is a classic example of one commission or eu body solving the problems of another eu body. unfortunately, this is a classic example of the growth of bureaucracy, which is inevitable according to certain sociological laws. mr mcmillan-scott was right to say that the commissioner has the appropriate officials. there are 64 of them now. the budget of your institution is almost 10 million euros. the question is, does the right job that you're doing really have to be done with that kind of budget and that kind of people? because of these doubts, my group will abstain on mrs iotov's report.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating mr nikiforos and the entire ombudsman team on a successful year 2010. the statistics speak for themselves: more cases identified, fewer critical comments and a shorter decision-making time 9 months instead of 13, a reduction of almost 1⁄3. this success should be a guide for the eu administration. the time taken to make decisions and respond to real challenges is too long, which increases costs and weakens competitiveness. in times of crisis we cannot afford to do this, so we must move towards some form of computerisation of the eu administration. the need for such a system was also suggested by jacob söderman, who served as ombudsman until 2003. i also propose that the ombudsman's powers be extended to cover, among other things, freedom of the press and media in europe or that a separate, special unit be set up within his office to deal exclusively with this issue. i know that a similar project was presented by colleagues from alde. today, after the experience in poland, where the current government is trying to restrict the freedom of right-wing media, i fully support it.
mr. chairman, mr. speaker, i'm not going to let you down. it's very nice to hear so much praise. i think they're well deserved, mr. counselor. i'd just like to make a couple of comments about the work itself. it seems that if the number of complaints is starting to decline now, it might be worth spending more time on creating the procedures themselves, the communication system itself, the flow of information, the access of citizens to documents. it is also worth considering where this decline in complaints comes from, whether it is because the eu institutions are working better or perhaps people themselves feel that the institutions are not being responsive. i voted for you, i supported you. i think it was a very good choice. but let's think about what else we can do right now to create a better flow of information, a better connection. let's not just solve the complaint, let's build a better system. i know you're already doing it, and it's important. my colleague from the ecr, mr migalski, said that his group would abstain from voting on your report because of your budget, your staff, etc. i think you should be supported, but at the same time, you should expect action that not only solves individual cases, but establishes some more systemic ones.
mr. chairman, please! last year, the current ombudsman was elected for a new term, which will run until 2014. shortly after his election, he presented a new strategy for the coming years, calling for, among other things, a stronger dialogue with civil society organisations and people making complaints, an improved culture of the eu administration and closer contacts with the ombudsmen of the eu member states. all three of mr diamandouros' objectives are worthy of recognition and show that he takes his duties seriously. the new communication system with citizens, including an interactive online guide to the mechanisms for protecting the fundamental rights of eu citizens, should also be assessed. it is available in 23 official languages. in 2010, more than 20 000 people have already successfully used it. the best evidence of the effectiveness of this approach is the decrease in the number of complaints received by the ombudsman last year compared to 2009. the eu administration is commonly thought of as a confusing, complicated and bureaucratic machine, full of incomprehensible procedures and closed to the public. i'm glad that the work of the ombudsman can help some of them see that it doesn't have to be that way. (the speaker agreed to answer the question asked under the blue card rule under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i have a question for mr. ripper. if you have given such a good assessment of the ombudsman's work, which i very much agree with, i would like to know why mr migalski from the ecr, your party, said that the ecr would abstain on the report, that there was too much money, too many people and, in general, as i understand it, he did not give such a positive assessment of today's speech?
i would like to answer the honourable member that there is a difference of opinion in the ecr group on this matter. i assure you that this difference of opinion will be reflected in the final vote in plenary today.
mr. chairman, please! i join in congratulating the european ombudsman and his colleagues. the 2009 figures show a decrease in the number of complaints, and 58% - as mentioned here - were filed via the internet, which is optimistic. this is a reflection of the communication success of this institution. the interactive guide, which is also mentioned here, on the website, should inspire the committee on petitions of the european parliament to create a similar tool. however, it is worrying to note that as many as 65% of all complaints were lodged against the european commission and that 33% of the cases were about breaches of the principle of transparency, especially access to documents. this relatively young institution of the ombudsman draws constructively on its experience and contributes to the promotion of good administrative practice at european level.
mr. chairman, mr. speaker, i'm not going to let you down. i've been following your activities in the last term. i had great respect for you even then, seeing you in action even in the most difficult situations. i am pleased to see that more and more citizens are recognizing both the office and the person. this means that communication with citizens is systematically improving. i hope it stays that way. i hope that more and more european citizens will realise who they can turn to for help. i don't agree with the idea of cutting funding to the ombudsman in any way, because he employs the best people. this team is not too big, but it's too small. there could be more cases if there were more people at this level of the ombudsman. furthermore, thanks to your high level of case management, your work has led to a growing awareness of the rights of the functioning of the institutions and to a growing legal culture in the european union. thank you and congratulations to you!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12.30 today. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the european commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 23 october 2011. ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that we are witnessing a turning point in the european union. we would like the decisions we take to be truly decisions for the future and to change the situation in the euro area, in the european union as a whole and in the world economy. we therefore listen very carefully to the reports by mr herman van rompuy, president of the european council, and by mr josé manuel barroso, president of the european commission. welcome to both of you, dear presidents president van rompuy and president barroso. thank you for coming only six hours after the last conclusions of the euro summit.
mr. chairman, please! economic governance in the euro area was once again the main topic of the eu summit in brussels. the possibility of amending the lisbon treaty, which was supposed to improve the functioning of the union, is being reconsidered, but so far it has only caused confusion in the eu institutions and among the public. the division of the european union is becoming a fact. not necessarily, as has been said so far, a two-speed europe, but - as was recently stated in the european parliament - even a three-speed europe: the franco-german directorate, the other eurozone countries and the countries that have not joined the eurozone. but at tonight's summit, they agreed to cancel greece's debt of 100 billion euros and recapitalize the bank. this temporary mechanism may prove insufficient, for example in the face of the threat of a crisis in italy, and the possibility of a gradual return of some countries to their national currencies should therefore be considered.
president of the commission. − mr president, i think it is fair to say that there was broad consensus in today’s discussion that yesterday’s decisions were important. most of the members welcomed those decisions. however, there is still a lot of work to do. i want once again, on behalf of the commission, to state that the commission will stay very committed, working with this parliament to achieve what i believe are our common goals. it is true that there are sometimes, between the different institutions, different positions in a sometimes dialectic relationship, but nevertheless i want to underline that in the preparation of this european council and euro summit, the cooperation between the president of the european council and myself and between his team and my team was really exemplary. it is important that at the same time as having different views on different issues we also stay committed to this spirit of all institutions working together to achieve more results for europe and its citizens. i will very briefly address some of the concrete issues put forward by the distinguished members of this house. first of all, many of you spoke about banks and why we are taking decisions for banks and not being tougher with them. i would like to highlight that point 5 of the annex to the european council conclusions clearly states – and you will remember this was also our proposal in the commission roadmap – that banks should first use private sources of capital, including through restructuring and conversion of debt to equity instruments and then that banks should be subject to constraints regarding the distribution of dividends and bonus payments until the target has been attained. yesterday, in the european council, i said to the european heads of state and government that the commission is ready to bring forward a regulation if they really want to be sure that the banks will respect this orientation. another point that was highlighted by some of you was tax evasion. i would remind you that in my state of the union address and afterwards in the roadmap i have been urging the council to finally give the commission the mandate to negotiate with third countries. unfortunately this has not yet been done. at the same time we can – internally in the european union – try to see what we can do to avoid this kind of behaviour. as you know, commissioner šemeta is working on this matter, but i have to tell you very frankly that this is one of the most difficult issues, and the fact that anonymity is required renders it even more difficult. regarding the economic governance of the euro area, let me put things clearly. we are in the current situation in europe not only because there was irresponsible financial behaviour but also because our member states – or most of them – did not respect their commitments regarding the stability and growth pact. i am saying this not only today here in front of you. i also said it yesterday in front of all the heads of state and government. i said also that some member states did not report their national statistics accurately, with at least one member state manipulating the statistics in a fraudulent way. this is exactly the kind of behaviour that we cannot accept in the future. this is why it is important to have convergence, but also discipline. if we want to have a true european economic union we need both. it is not just about convergence, we need more discipline so that we can achieve a higher degree of integration. i believe the heads of government and our member states are learning that lesson. the reality is that yesterday, if you look at the conclusions, they went beyond our proposals, which you adopted, on stability and growth pact reinforcement. for instance, in point 26(e), they make a commitment – of course it is a political commitment, but it is an important one – that at national level they will stick to the recommendations of the commission and the relevant commissioner regarding the implementation of the stability and growth pact – even before any kind of formal decision by the council. i believe that we do have the circumstances where governments understand that, if they really want to keep financial stability and to stick to a common currency, more discipline, more integration and more convergence is needed. of course, i really welcome this drive. some of you mentioned, or put questions about, investments. i fully agree with you. this is not only about austerity. we need growth, and to have growth we need more investment – public investment. since many of our member states do not have the fiscal space to do this, we are proposing to use the community level so that we can promote growth through some kind of public investment. in the european council discussion on growth i had the occasion to put forward some proposals, such as project bonds, the connecting europe facility and the possibility of anticipating some of the proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, so that we can also show our citizens that we are serious when we speak about the possibilities of growth and are ready to make some kind of public investment, being committed to sustainable, inclusive growth and also to employment. i want to conclude by saying that there is a lot of work to do. now we have a better basis to go forward, but in fact some of the decisions that we took yesterday at the euro area summit, and also in the european council, have to be followed by consistent, determined implementation. that is where i want to ask you also to make the case for europe in our own countries, as was highlighted on several occasions. sometimes in europe, when people criticise the european union, they should be more precise about what they are criticising. is it the european union as a project? is it our joint resolve or is it the attitude of some specific movements or political leaders? we need, more than ever, a stronger european union; we need more than ever a strong euro and we will work for that if there is convergence between the main institutions. i can tell you that the commission will stay very committed to this community approach, looking forward to the very important work ahead. (applause)
president of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a sleepless night, i prefer to use my own language because it allows me to express myself more accurately. i'm glad i heard so many positive things here today. i'll get used to it. i cherish that moment. i think that's too rare to let it go unnoticed. (applause from the left) in any case, when it comes to too little and too late, one must always say, of course, what the reference is: what is too little and what is too late? if you take the markets as a reference, you have to choose your argument. we cannot say that we should not listen to the markets because they are speculative movements, that they are negative, that they are biased, and at the same time they reproach us for not being able to follow the rhythm and the pace of the markets. it's one or the other. in any case, political decisionmaking will always lag behind markets. it is therefore all the more important - and some have said so here - to set a course, to have a course and, although one may sometimes appear to be slow, to always be consistently moving in the same direction. i'm not sure that's always been the case, but i'm happy to admit it. but the analysis of the crisis must be precise. there are problems in decision-making at the level of the union, at the collective level, but there are a whole series of problems at the level of the member states. the crisis began in greece and then spread to ireland in the autumn and then to portugal. these countries have been hesitant for a long time to call on the emergency fund and a lot of time has been lost. as a result, we sometimes got caught up in the facts. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the crisis is not only a crisis of decisionmaking by the institutions - if there is one - but is primarily a crisis of individual member states. that is all too easily forgotten and overlooked. secondly, as has been said before: "you have only made decisions of principle". but it always is. decisions made are often decisions of principle. then the work will follow. mr bisky spoke of goethe earlier, and i could speak of racine: "the drama is done, there is a lesson to be learned". so we have actually made very important decisions in all these areas. as far as the banks are concerned, i have a written agreement from the banks, not just something in the air. we'll have to work it out legally and financially, of course, but the breakthrough has come, the piece is signed. so in any case, there has been much more progress than we thought. the so-called leveraging, the maximising of the emergency fund's potential, is based on several models. these models must of course be drawn up, but there is no longer any need to make a choice. these models can be combined well and the effects can be cumulated. so it's not like we don't know where we're going yet. we just need to get it up and running and further develop the contacts with the private sector. as regards the recapitalisation: of course, there's time until june 30 of next year. like we can find 100 billion dollars overnight and put it in the banks! all these things take time, but not as much time as is often suggested, and many of these decisions are actually made in principle, and more than in principle. i shall not go into all the answers given by the president of the commission, but will simply refer to the institutional aspect. he did speak about the european parliament. you can check the lyrics. i put them in there myself. i am prepared - because i am not obliged - to come to parliament after each separate meeting of the eurozone that i may chair and report there, as i do to the european council, on the meeting. (applause) if you look closely at the texts, you will see that it is not just about three points that happened to be in my speech or that were in my introduction. it is full of pages and pages of institutional innovation. and we move on. i am also prepared to exchange views with parliament on the further deepening of economic union (that is literally in the texts) and further strengthening of fiscal discipline (that is also literally in the texts), and to do so in good time so that we do not surprise anyone. i am not obliged to do so, but if you are willing, i shall be very happy to do so. i will not go into all the other points because time is already very advanced, but i wanted to tell you that we are not seeing the end of the crisis. perhaps we have brought about a turning point. what we can do in the institutional field, what we can do collectively, we have to work out further, but the great work at the level of the member states has yet to be done. in many countries, including those which are not currently under market pressure, reforms will have to be carried out. we have now created the institution to follow up on that, to monitor that, to enforce that if necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is the difficult task we face in the coming months and years.
i would like to thank both presidents for their presence with us this morning. this was a very important, comprehensive, deep discussion and i would like to thank all my colleagues. it was a very important discussion for the european union, we know that very well. democracy is working in the european union. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. last night, europa had a very difficult operation on her open heart. there were very difficult moments, even the success of the operation was in doubt. but today, the patient is feeling "for a post-op condition" fine. if there are no complications, she'll recover, which i wish with all my heart. 'shock therapy' has forced member states to make specific decisions. after almost 10 hours of negotiations, compromises were reached which are expected to reduce greece's debt by eur 100 billion (from the current eur 350 billion). the european council also agreed to increase the lending capacity of the european financial stability facility (efsf) to around eur 1 trillion and to recapitalise key eu banks by around eur 106 billion. the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, has ambitions to put greece on the road to recovery, with a target of reducing its public debt to 120% by 2020 (from 162% at present). president barroso is right when he says that these are exceptional measures for exceptional times. the results of these decisions have already had a clear effect. this morning, the world's stock markets have risen to their highest level in two months, and the euro is doing pretty well. i think the reform program in this situation has to be radical, it's a shame that the patient wasn't given the right medication earlier. not to mention the prevention...
the conference of presidents today unanimously decided on this year's sakharov prize. this is a big decision and our biggest reward. it was given to five arab spring leaders. i will read you their names: posthumously mohamed bouazizi of tunisia, asmaa mahfouz of egypt, ahmed al-zubair ahmed al-sanusi of libya, razan zeitouneh and ali farzat of syria. fellow workers! it's a way of showing our support for what's happening in our immediate neighborhood. it is also a sign that we are defending the fundamental values on which we have built our european union. it is a show of solidarity with the arab world and a tribute to those who are making a difference in our southern neighborhood.
madam president! investigating cases of maladministration by the eu institutions is an important aspect of the ombudsman's work, as openness and transparency in the administration is one of the values of open societies in the member states. it is therefore the european parliament which appoints the ombudsman and, through its committee on petitions, monitors his work. as the report for the past year shows, the issue of public access to eu documents continues to be the subject of the highest number of complaints and 33% of closed cases. the ombudsman's activities, actions and recommendations do not therefore translate into an improvement in the quality of the work of the institutions complained of, as might be expected. some of the entries in the report may even serve to reassure the administrative staff responsible for the irregularities, which raises the question of the effectiveness of spending huge sums on the ombudsman's office. on the basis of the above arguments, i abstained.
madam president! the conviction of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko is widely considered to be a disappointing verdict. it was issued after a process that raised huge concerns about compliance with international standards of fair, transparent and, above all, independent judicial proceedings. i feel it has political overtones, which i regret. in view of the widest possible cooperation of the union's states, including poland, with ukraine and in continuing to support the country's integration aspirations, i call on the authorities in kiev to ensure that the accused and convicted former members of the government are given fair trials on appeal. i hope that president viktor yanukovych will do his utmost to ensure that the existing relations with brussels do not deteriorate. at the same time, i ask the polish presidency, which is active in the field of the eastern partnership, to commit itself to a positive solution to the situation. this is particularly important in the context of the closing of the association negotiations with ukraine. i support the resolution.
in writing. - in a resolution of 20 january, the european parliament stated that it wanted egypt to be free, to be an example of respect for civil liberties and rights, including religious freedom and rights. in those days, i was drawing mrs ashton's attention to the growing violence against the copts and the significant growth of extremist islamic political groups. i was told that without a strong stand on religious freedom, there should be no talk of any aid to egypt. as i warned you, over the past five months, we have witnessed a continuous attack on christians. moreover, the country's ruling army killed 36 copts and wounded more than 200 in a bloody riot. as reality shows, the new government has not reacted to the shameful acts of religious violence and the increasing autonomy of the extremist islamist militias attacking places of worship, such as the church in aswan. this hard line against christians is also reflected in the draft of egypt's new constitution, which contains a direct reference to sharia law. it is worth noting that in the current version of 1956, christians cannot renew their church without the permission of the president. how many more of these ideas do we have to accept? in these circumstances, the european union should not conclude any trade agreements with egypt and suspend all aid until a constitution is promulgated giving full protection to the christians living there and equalising their rights with the muslim majority.
in writing. - ukraine is now on the verge of a decision that will shape its destiny for decades to come - whether to tie its future to the european union or turn away from europe and towards russia. the summit in december was to have seen the signing of an eu-ukraine association agreement, the first such agreement with a large country neighbouring the union. unfortunately, recent events in ukraine, including the trial and sentencing of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko, have raised serious questions about the possibility of concluding negotiations and signing the agreement quickly. the eu and member state authorities have made it clear to president yanukovych that politically motivated trials are not in line with eu standards. the resolution adopted today further reinforces this message. however, i believe that such signals should not stand in the way of the swift signing of the association agreement, which is in the interests of both ukraine and the european union. this will allow better monitoring of ukraine's commitments, in particular in the area of democratisation and the implementation of the necessary reforms.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. like mrs lichtenberger, i cannot understand why the socialists do not want to vote on this today and participate in this resolution. there's no bad time to raise awareness about human rights, to raise awareness about those who, in desperation, commit suicide by burning themselves. especially since it's a very good resolution, i.e. it calls on the chinese authorities to stop the repression, to release those it has imprisoned, or to allow them to a good and fair trial. he's defending the nuns and monks of this kirti monastery. i'm not at all sure why that would bother anyone. what's happening in china is unfortunately a permanent issue. this is not the result of the last few days or a dozen days. this is a state of permanent human rights violation. where else but in this room can we hear a voice condemning and opposing these practices? i therefore think that we should first of all say here in one voice, it is a pity that there is not one voice here, and secondly we should call on the representatives of both the commission and the council to raise these issues at the next summit in cannes and to raise the matter with their chinese partners.
what is happening in tibet is unimaginable to many of us. the self-immolations are in protest against the chinese authorities' violation of religious freedom. as a result of these terrible acts of despair, five people have died and the condition of the remaining four is unknown. the tibetans are demanding religious freedom and the return of the dalai lama. many monks from kirti monastery were detained and sent to so-called re-education by the chinese authorities that year. many people have been thrown in jail for participating in peaceful protests. these recent cases show the desperation of the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom, which is not a privilege but a right of every human being. self-immolation is a form of protest and a cry for this freedom, and the european union needs to hear this cry. parliament is a place where you speak, not where you keep silent.
mr. chairman, please! this is the n-th time we've spoken in this room or in this committee about human rights abuses in china. we talk about how their culture, which the whole world is passionate about, is destroyed, how their religion, which is an inspiration to many people around the world, is destroyed, how tibet is destroyed. we talk about how the chinese people have no respect for human rights at all and look at this empty room, how we are talking about whether it's worth it, whether it's the right time, how we are conducting trade and financial negotiations, how delicately in velvet gloves we are maintaining good relations with the chinese, and the monks can no longer more clearly beg us to pay a clear, true and authentic attention to the terrible things that are happening there. i wonder if this is starting to be embarrassing, if this is starting to undermine any kind of opportunity for these people to do anything, who care about their dignity and our dignity, because the way we respond to them is a reflection of our own dignity.
in writing. for 60 years, tibet has been under chinese occupation. after a long period of relative calm, tibetans have tried to draw international attention to china's human rights record by protesting on the eve of the beijing olympics. the riots killed many tibetans, and the people became more radical. despite severe punishments, imprisonment and torture, tibetans did not give up on their quest for independence. the self-immolation of buddhist monks and nuns in the past year has been a tragic expression of feelings of powerlessness toward the chinese power. the monks vow never to take their own lives, which only shows the drama of this nation. there are at least a few reasons for this: china's social and economic marginalization of tibet, the lack of political and religious freedoms that should be protected within the framework of autonomy, the call for the return of the dalai lama, and the growing chinese indoctrination. the monks are using this to get the attention of the west, to force the politicians to act and to condemn the actions of the chinese authorities. yet, the world is in no hurry to confront the growing power. if we don't respond to the recent events with a clear message, many tibetans are ready to make further sacrifices, and the chinese repression will become more and more severe.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the latin maxim non olet securia says that money does not smell. in debating today about burma, about bahrain, i wanted to make it very clear that we are not just talking about bahrain, but we are also talking about europe. we are talking about european companies that are doing business in violation of human rights. bahrain is the mirror in which europe can see itself at this moment. you have to be very clear about that. as a blogger, i would like to express my solidarity with our fellow bloggers who have completely different blogging conditions in bahrain than those in europe. i think that the european parliament's position on human rights in bahrain is necessary because it is part of building civil society in that country.
mr president, i am deeply concerned by the situation in bahrain. reports of injuries among citizens exercising their right to peaceful protest and among medical professionals attending to the wounded are to be condemned in the strongest terms. nevertheless, we must be wary of iranian attempts to gain influence over the protest movement and within bahrain in general. iranian control over bahrain would put tehran within reach of the arabian peninsula and the very large reserves of oil to be found there. in a period when we are still recovering from severe recession, there is significant global interest in making sure the world’s largest proven oil reserves do not fall into iranian or pro-iranian hands.
the author. − as dictatorships fall in arab countries, the regime of bashar al-assad continues to resort to a policy of terror and repression against its own people, discriminating against human rights. the case of rafah nached, the world-renowned syrian psychoanalyst, clearly demonstrates the regime's loss of legitimacy and lack of any idea of coexistence with society. the freedom movement in syria is gaining momentum and the current leader is already showing a full awareness of the coming end of his dictatorial rule. the arbitrary detention of rafah nached is marked by violations of all civilized human rights norms. the charge of acting to destabilize the state against a person who organizes support workshops for those who have been harmed by the criminal activity of the services subordinate to the authorities is extremely absurd and even taints paranoia. i therefore call on the syrian authorities to immediately release rafah nached and to stop the persecution of civilians carrying humanitarian aid. i also call for the release of political prisoners and journalists. rafah nached is actively involved in promoting dialogue between syrians. so i'm hoping to continue that kind of activity based on her record.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. rafah nached, who has been running a psychoanalytic clinic in damascus for 26 years, was illegally arrested in damascus on september 10. recently, she has been active in helping people traumatised by the syrian regime. a petition for her release has been signed by 9,000 people. the imprisonment of ms. nached is a violation of basic human rights. it is the moral duty of this parliament to demand her immediate release. we also demand from the syrian authorities guarantees that doctors, volunteers, human rights defenders will be able to carry out their work without fear, repression and sanctions from the authorities. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, the promotion, protection and safety of human rights defenders must be given priority in the european union's relations with third countries and be taken into account in the union's foreign policy. strong sanctions should be clearly defined and applied to third countries that commit serious human rights violations.
on behalf of the ecr group. the rafah nached case is a case that has all of us in this room in a state of shock. i am glad that, regardless of which side of the house the members are voting on, the vote is essentially unanimous. we all demand the release of this brave woman. but the problem we're talking about today is not about this one, albeit highly sensational, case. this is a problem that affects democracy in syria. i think that what we have experienced as observers of the arab spring leads us to assume in this chamber that we are witnessing an extremely important act in world history. because we are learning that those who said that some civilizations, some religions, some cultural circles were predestined for democracy and freedom, and that others were not mature enough for democracy, were wrong. today our arab brothers are paying with their blood for demanding freedom. it's a great signal that freedom is for everyone and democracy is for everyone.
mr. chairman, please! the protests that have been taking place in syria since march this year will not stop until the authorities learn from the consequences of the "arab spring". today we're discussing the case of rafah nached, the first woman in syria to practice as a psychoanalyst. her scientific and clinical research focused on self-help methods for overcoming fear of violence. her and her father's free courses to help syrians overcome their fear were the pretext for her arrest on september 10th this year at the damascus airport. despite the huge number of calls for her release from both the international community and public figures, as well as the world psychoanalytical community, rafah nached is still being held and there is no information available on her situation. given the escalation of violence in syria and the widespread human rights violations by the syrian authorities, i believe that the time has come for international action. the syrian government must finally realize that by violating the basic rights of its citizens, it risks being held accountable by the international community. political change in syria is inevitable, and the use of violence only postpones it. the recent end of gaddafi's leadership shows that all dictators fall anyway. but the price of their departure is always very high.
recent events in syria show that there is no chance for a peaceful revolution in the country, and any disobedience to the regime will be suppressed by the authorities. citizens fighting for fundamental human rights and journalists are unjustly and unlawfully detained or held in prisons. one of the wrongfully detained prisoners, arbitrarily detained without a fair trial, is rafah nached, arrested last month in damascus. the question of her detention must be resolved immediately, given her steadily deteriorating health. today we should call out loudly for the syrian authorities to stop arbitrary arrests and detentions of political activists, human rights defenders, journalists and to release all prisoners of conscience and to publicly clarify all cases of people killed, injured and missing in the country.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we are talking about one case today, but i am glad that it is a starting point for discussion in this room about the current events in syria. because ms. nached's example is a good example - tragic but good - of what is happening in syria and what should not be happening. it's good that this place sends a clear signal to damascus because i haven't heard any voice that would be different, that would be separate that this kind of behavior that is happening in syria is unacceptable to the european union. i'm very glad that we're above political divisions on this matter. parliament should make it clear that what is happening in syria is unacceptable to us.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, many members have touched on how our thoughts are with the syrian people, who continue to suffer under the brutal repressive campaign of bashar al-assad’s regime. as far as we are aware, more than 3 000 people have been killed so far. many thousands more remain in detention following arbitrary arrests and are subject to widespread human rights abuses. those detentions are unjust. let me highlight the particular case of ms rafah nached, the renowned syrian psychoanalyst, who has now spent over six weeks in jail. she was arrested for no reason, despite her age and despite her health conditions, and there was no reason for arresting her. the vice-president/high representative has reacted strongly and called for the immediate release of ms nached, along with all those arbitrarily arrested. it is clear that we need to keep up the pressure to ensure the release of all innocent people, including ms nached. our strong approach on the assad regime is right. we have imposed sanctions against that regime and must keep up the pressure to help end the violence. i would also like to emphasise that we have been working through the united nations with regard to the human rights situation in syria, with the special session of the human rights council in august adopting a strongly-worded resolution on syria thanks to the eu’s commitment.
in writing. the rafah nached case is just one of many tragedies that affect thousands of syrians every day. repression and brutal torture affect young and old, women and men. after capturing more cities, the army proceeds to purge them, capturing those involved in the protests. many of those arrested never return, bodies are found with their internal organs cut off for sale. the originator of these methods was alois brunner, a high-ranking ss officer, the man who from 1939 onward was responsible for the mass deportations and exterminations of polish, czech, and later french and balkan jews. after the war, he was pursued by international authorities and escaped punishment for his crimes against humanity. alois brunner managed to hide in syria, where he created and built a security force. the hitlerite criminal, who is responsible for the murder of hundreds of thousands of europeans, is the father of the services that today drown in blood the streets of hims, hama, damascus or latakia. we must remember this fact especially today, when the whole union should be reacting with one voice of condemnation to the events in syria. as the protests in libya continued, a no-fly zone was quickly established. while the assad regime is torturing the syrian people, the world is silent, turning a blind eye. europe must do everything it can to bring peace to syria and put pressure on the disgraced president who should be in the hague tribunal instead of in damascus.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 27 october 2011.
the minutes of 27 october 2011 were distributed. does anyone have any comments? (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
i'd like to give you some current information. last week, another earthquake hit turkey. more people have died, nearly 700 people, and property damage has increased in a region that was hit by an earthquake three weeks ago. we share the pain of our turkish friends. last week's floods in italy and southern france also caused deaths and significant property damage. we appreciate the efforts of the emergency services and local authorities to help the affected residents. we remain deeply saddened and with great sympathy for the families of the victims of these cataclysms, the missing persons, and we also sympathize with those who have lost all their possessions and are homeless. second briefing: in the last days of october, i visited libya. i met with the president, ministers and representatives of civil society. we talked about building democracy and a market economy. they are counting heavily on europe's help, including by teaching them the principles of democracy, building independent democratic institutions and the functioning of structures within these institutions. they're very cooperative, and of course you can't force them to do anything, but they're very willing to talk about it. i was also in tunisia, where i met with the prime minister, the head of the central bank, and the leaders of the four political parties that won the elections, the first ones on the list. there is also a complete opening to the european union. i was told, "we have no choice. our choice is the european union. i talked to them about creating a democratic state of law based on full access for all people, including women, to the public sphere and also to take advantage of all opportunities in an open society. all four parties that won the elections are ready to create such a democratic tunisia, and to cooperate with the europeans. i also spent almost a week in the western balkans: croatia, which is joining the european union, and serbia, which has recently introduced far-reaching reforms and where the main problem is the normalisation of relations with kosovo. i was also in bosnia and herzegovina, where the issue is to end the internal political deadlock. i also visited srebrenica, where i laid a wreath and, on behalf of the whole european parliament, expressed my deepest sympathy to all the families of the victims. i think srebrenica is a place that every european should visit. it's a very important place to remember what lack of openness, lack of understanding leads to. i'd also like to inform you of three current cases. we have a priority debate next wednesday. the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, the president of the european commission, mr barroso, and the president of the eurogroup, mr juncker, decided to attend. this is a very important debate, we are aware of this and i would encourage all of you to be present in the chamber for this debate. the european parliament's plenary session of the mediterranean youth parliament ended here today at 3 p.m. it was attended by representatives of 40 countries, i.e. young meps from 40 mediterranean countries, including most of the european union. they worked in five working groups: dialogue and social engagement; migration and integration; equal opportunities; environment, transport and renewable energy; and education and employment. they're raising many of the same issues that we raise every day: civil society, social dialogue, genuine equality in access to education, broad environmental protection, building a balance in north africa, in the middle east, with the gradual building of a society of affluence, which is so difficult in some countries in the region. we can be proud of our responsibility for the future of the entire mediterranean region. i'd like to tell you that our young friends are with us today in the gallery. i would like to welcome the 250 young people from the mediterranean region to this parliament, which has been sitting in this hall for two days. yesterday and today, you were seated in the place of these young people who are here today. welcome to the club! (laughter) (applause) there's one more message. i would like to invite you to the high level conference on human rights to be held in the european parliament on 23 november. it will also be a meeting of the sakharov prize winners. the arrival of the 12 sakharov prize winners has just been confirmed. they may not all be here for various reasons, but it seems they're eager to be with us. it's going to be a wide-ranging discussion with human rights activists from around the world. on 23 november, it will be a full day in the european parliament, and at the end of the day we will meet in an open meeting with the people of brussels in the centre of the bozar. and finally, the sad news of the death of willy de clercq. a belgian and european statesman has left. he was a member of the european parliament for a quarter of a century, and chaired our liberal group and one of the european parliament's committees. he also held the offices of commissioner and deputy prime minister of belgium. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the family of willy de clercq. i'd like to ask you to rise and observe a moment of silence in memory of our colleague.
i have received a request from the council pursuant to rule 142 of its rules of procedure to examine, as a matter of urgency, a draft council decision to give its consent, on behalf of the european union, to a declaration on the allocation of fishing opportunities in european union waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. the council submits that the application of the urgency procedure is justified by the need to ensure continuity of the activities covered by the draft decision. the motion will be put to the vote at the start of tomorrow's sitting, so the special urgency procedure applies here.
the final draft agenda drawn up in accordance with rules 137 and 138 of the rules of procedure was distributed by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 10 november 2011. the following changes are proposed: [wednesday]: all the political groups agreed on the following agenda for wednesday afternoon: the first item: statement on the eu-us summitthe second item: oral questions on the open internetthe third item: oral questions on the romathe fourth item: statement on the ban on the use of cluster munitionsthe fifth item: oral questions on vat legislation and the digital market the other items on the agenda for wednesday, including wednesday morning, remain unchanged. [thursday]:two amendments are made: the first change, agreed with all the political groups, is that the commission's statement on the contribution of the common fisheries policy to the production of public goods has been removed from the agenda. the second amendment, also agreed with all the political groups, is that, with regard to the report by knut fleckenstein on the european maritime safety agency, which is currently scheduled for a vote on thursday, the political groups agreed that this agenda item should not be put to the vote at the current part-session but at the part-session from 30 november to 1 december. so this item will be voted on with a two-week delay. that's what all the political groups agreed.
the vote will be taken at the next part-session, from 30 november to 1 december. we'll have a vote two weeks late. the agenda is set.
thank you for your attention. i'll take care of it and see what it looks like.
as i told pat gallagher, i'll look into it. i'm not in a position to tell you anything about it today.
i am sorry mrs de brún, i cannot say anything more than i said in reply to mr gallagher, nothing more. i will check it personally.
nothing more, so could we please stop this discussion because i know there is a serious problem. i treat it as a serious problem.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs deborah serracchiani, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the creation of a single european railway area (recast) (com (2010) 0475 - c7-0268/2010 - 2010/0253 (cod)) (a7-0367/2011).
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and her colleagues for all their good and very intensive work and welcome the progress made by this parliament to reach a compromise on this complex piece of legislation. the commission will present its work programme for 2012 tomorrow. i have already confirmed on several occasions my intention to propose further substantial reform in the rail sector next year. let me be clear at the outset that i do not seek change for change’s sake, but rather because we need to strengthen rail to ensure it offers attractive services, capable of playing a substantial role in the transport of the future. but rail will only fulfil its potential if rail companies are innovative, cost-efficient and forward-looking. although the commission has been seeking this for the past two decades, change has been very slow. so next year’s package will revitalise the process, with proposals to open domestic passenger markets and review related public service obligation rules, with further structural change to ensure fair competitive conditions for newcomers and a refinement of the rules on standards and certification of rolling stock to make the approvals process quicker and more cost-effective. completion of work on the current proposal, the recast, is a precondition for the 2012 package. i am fully aware that discussions in both council and parliament proved to be difficult and subject to intense lobbying from various stakeholders. they demonstrated that rail remains a conservative sector. in some cases, some of the principles and rules already agreed ten years ago have been challenged in an attempt to undermine ongoing infringement procedures. let us be clear: the status quo – or even worse, backward steps – is not an option! a large majority of the 133 amendments adopted by the committee on transport (tran) are acceptable to the commission, even though in some cases subject to certain redrafting. however, let me draw your attention to the fact that some specific amendments voted in tran and others now tabled to the plenary would substantially weaken the commission proposal. these amendments would be a step backward compared to the text agreed by council and even compared to existing law, which is not acceptable for the commission. let me insist on some of these: first, the issue of separation between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings will be subject to new proposals at the end of 2012 and therefore all amendments in relation to articles 6 and 7 are premature. the new provisions on separation of accounts are contrary to the principle of financial transparency and (at least as drafted) extremely difficult for the regulators to control. the result would be that state money paid to support the infrastructure could instead leak to an incumbent train operator, giving it an unfair competitive advantage – and at the same time diminishing the funds available for investment by infrastructure managers. secondly, debt write-off by member states can only relate to so-called historical debt incurred before market opening. thirdly, the recast proposal does not modify the fundamental principles of infrastructure charging; it simply clarifies how these principles must be applied. new exemptions to infrastructure charging cannot be justified by any objective criteria. fourthly, national regulators must have the possibility to fulfil their oversight functions, including for cross-border traffic, and prevent problems. fifthly, experience shows that the competence of national regulators must be extended. however, some amendments would restrict their interventions to cases of discrimination and impede interventions to correct other undesirable distortions of the market. sixthly, amendments 126 and 127 are problematic. the first would undermine the direct cost charging principle; the second would put an unnecessary administrative burden on infrastructure managers. seventhly, amendments restricting or removing powers for the commission to adopt delegated or implementing acts often relate to non-essential elements. we need to make technical adjustments which practically should not be done in co-decision. i also need to draw your attention to the 2001 interinstitutional agreement on recasting. this agreement establishes a discipline to guarantee interinstitutional equilibrium, the right of initiative of the commission and the right to make use of recasting as a key instrument for better law-making. thank you for your attention.
we'll discuss that in a moment. it is a remark which concerns the merits of our case. our discussions are designed to address these issues.
i welcome the view expressed by the rapporteur, debora serracchiani, and by saïd el khadraoui, who assess the delays in the creation of a common economic area for rail transport in europe. we have examples of countries, including my own country, where the railway is rapidly deteriorating: technically, operationally and organizationally. i therefore welcome the commission's initiative to make rail more european. it is important that railways in the union have good access to their eastern neighbours, which have a wider track gauge and a different railway edge. there is an amendment by a group of meps to facilitate this integration by separating one section of the broad gauge railway from russia and ukraine to katowice in poland. the aim is to remove only certain articles from the regulation. i ask you to support this amendment.
i would like to congratulate congresswoman serracchiani on a very good job. for the past few months, the transformation of the first rail package has been the main and perhaps the most difficult dossier in the committee on transport and tourism. the agreement reached by the commission, through a series of compromise amendments, reflects the determination of all political groups. we all want to travel by rail in comfortable conditions, to travel safely and as quickly as possible, and to be able to buy a single ticket for connections provided by different operators at the same ticket office when travelling to the station. we are determined to achieve this goal. but we must remember and be careful not to make any mistakes. in the pursuit of free competition in the railway market, we must bear in mind that in some member states there are self-financing railway lines which do not connect to the national and european network, which are of purely industrial importance and whose width is different from the dominant one. the need to apply to those detached lines all the provisions of the directive, including unbundling, would impose disproportionate and irrational burdens and would distort and misrepresent the purpose for which they were built. i therefore ask you to support amendment no 135 tabled by myself, mr marcinkiewicz, the ecr group, and signed by several dozen donkeys from various political groups and different member states, when we vote on wednesday.
madam president! the railway package adopted in 2001 was intended to integrate the railway sector and make it more attractive than other modes of transport. unfortunately, despite the passing of 10 years, despite the favourable conditions, the european rail sector has not been able to develop. while road transport is growing and moving across borders is not a problem, rail freight as well as rail passenger transport faces many legal, technical and political obstacles. this shows how difficult it is to create a single railway area and a better, more passenger-friendly and simplified rail policy. however, we must bear in mind that any solution to this problem must take account of the different systems of governance of the sector in the various countries of the european union and the different levels of development and quality of the railway infrastructure. at the same time, we cannot afford to waste the huge potential of this sector, which unfortunately is not being exploited properly.
in writing. in the context of tomorrow's vote on the revision of the first railway package, i wanted to highlight some important aspects that could play a key role in the future of rail in the eu. in some member states there are some lines with a different track gauge from the basic track gauge, which are a relic of the old post-soviet system, where these lines are not part of the national and union railway system. this type of line was deliberately built for regional needs, taking into account the transport of goods from third countries. the length of the line and the traffic on it usually do not play any role in the train-per-kilometre ratio when considering national transport. member states should therefore be able to exclude from the application of the directive those lines and the carriers operating them. so, with the help of congressman arthur rule, i've introduced amendment 135, which is the one that solves the problem i mentioned.
madam president! the free movement of people and workers within the european union is one of the key benefits of integration. in the period following the economic and financial crisis, we should particularly support the mobility of european union citizens, so that we can respond more quickly and effectively to the demands of the labour markets in the member states. despite the fact that freedom of movement and of employment in the member states has long been a core value of the union, citizens still face many barriers and obstacles resulting from the different national conditions and legislative arrangements. currently, only 2% of union citizens work in a member state other than their own. the willingness to work in another country is about 20%, which shows us that we are dealing with untapped potential. the recognition of professional qualifications remains one of the barriers to freedom of movement within the union. this requires an urgent revision of the current directives, but also the appropriate and rapid implementation of the new rules in the member states. the new rules should be based on simplified procedures, good information, a reduction in the number of regulated professions and the introduction of greater automation in the recognition of professional qualifications. only in this way will we encourage greater mobility and guarantee the fundamental right to work freely in the european union. the issue of recognition of professional qualifications is only one element of the long-term and comprehensive strategy for mobility that europe needs to ensure sustainable growth. the elimination of all existing legal and administrative obstacles to the free movement of workers should be a priority for the commission, the council and the european parliament in the coming months.
madam president! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur very much because today's debate on the recognition of professional qualifications is meeting the expectations of the people of the european union. enabling citizens to have their qualifications recognised in a member state other than the one in which they obtained their professional qualifications and the benefits of a competitive european internal market are important factors in stimulating economic growth and creating new jobs in the european union. if we are talking about the free movement of people and goods, if we are talking about the internal market, then today's report showing the need for the european commission to prepare the relevant legislation is an important support for thousands of young people who want to work in another country of the european union. we can only hope, especially for all the citizens of the european union, that the necessary legal solutions will be implemented as soon as possible. the commissioner's question is: how long will it take for the citizens of europe to implement these relevant rules?
in writing. facilitating the free movement of skilled workers across the european union is not just a right enshrined in the treaties as a result of the nature of the single market. this is primarily an economic need that must be addressed as soon as possible, given that we will need as many as 16 million highly skilled workers by the end of 2020. in order for the mobility of these workers to really bring about economic recovery, we must make it easier for them to take up employment and set up their own businesses in a country of their choice, where their knowledge and skills are needed. to this end, national rules that create unnecessary barriers and obstacles should be reviewed. in my view, although i realise that this would be complicated, harmonising vocational training legislation at eu level could be a good solution. it is also important that relevant information is easily accessible to interested parties. i therefore call on the european commission to consolidate the information sources already available so that people wishing to set up a business in a country other than their own can have access to the necessary documents and information on the relevant sectoral authorities in their own language.
i have written an appeal which is circulating in the european parliament and which has already been signed by several dozen meps on the case of asia noreen , a christian woman who is facing death. in pakistan, in ittanwali, asia noreen belongs to a religious minority and has been sentenced to death, and now there is a danger that the sentence will be carried out. her family is in danger, too. i would like to appeal once again to the high representative, and to the european parliament, to act in a more decisive and effective way. this is a measure of our credibility as human rights defenders - we should be strongly engaged in diplomatic pressure so that christians are not persecuted for their religion, so that they are not threatened with death. i repeat my appeal, noting that the seriousness of this house depends on it.
almost halfway through the current term of the european parliament, we should have the courage to ask ourselves where europe is heading, to what extent we are achieving the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy, and whether we see any real prospect of getting out of the prolonged financial crisis affecting many member states of the union. we must remember that in times of instability and when people feel threatened by the inability to meet basic needs, populist movements often emerge with extreme slogans of change. we must not underestimate the "movement of the outraged", which for now has the form of an idealistic opposition of young people without real prospects for creative development and decent work, but in the future it may become the seed of a serious political force, but what kind of face? we cannot ignore the irresponsibility of some politicians who have forced their lives on credit, their lives at the expense of future generations, making unrealistic promises in exchange for maintaining power, even using the hiding or modifying of the real situation. even the brussels administration, famous for its meticulousness, failed to control the individual member states effectively, accepting the dangerous increase in budget deficits and debt.
demographic change is a problem for many countries and regions. in europe, we have low natural growth, a high percentage of people, mostly young people, migrating from rural areas to large, wealthy cities. the author of the report considers that structural policy in particular has to face the serious challenges of demographic change and identifies six priorities in this regard. i'll focus on three. first, the structural funds must be better adapted to the challenges of demographic change. the breakdown of the structural funds by region should take into account demographic indicators. secondly, as regards infrastructure, the rapporteur sees a serious challenge for both rural and urban areas. the outflow of the population and the isolation of the elderly should be prevented. urban planning also needs to be adapted accordingly. cities and municipalities must be attractive to their inhabitants, including through child and family-friendly infrastructure and good local public transport. one of the main factors in addressing the demographic challenge is the increase in the number of women in employment. we must also combat youth unemployment.
i welcome the vote today on the report on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. i hope that the common legal basis will contribute to better coordination and increase the effectiveness of the measures to combat poverty and help those most in need. especially in difficult times of crisis, which will most affect the poorest people, often without savings and without greater prospects, we must focus our attention on those who are in the most difficult situation. in the search for budgetary savings, national governments tend to reduce spending on social assistance, which further aggravates the situation of these people. the report by frédéric daerden is particularly relevant in its proposal to create a basket of basic goods and services that would be available to everyone. this would guarantee the minimum necessary for each person and would allow for a dignified existence. at the same time, such a project must be accompanied by measures to create jobs, including for low-skilled people, and an appropriate social housing policy. the goals we set for ourselves in the europe 2020 strategy are ambitious but achievable. if we follow the theory, written on paper, with the actual actions of our governments, in cooperation with social organizations, we have a chance to reduce the number of people who are left on the margins of society.
there are many solutions that are needed to help reduce poverty. we should strive to ensure that public services such as education, communication and health care are equally accessible to all citizens of the european union. i would like to draw attention to two problems that are very troubling to me. the first problem is the decision to reduce and consequently to abolish the food aid programme for the most needy. in poland, some 4 million people are covered by this scheme. 20,000 volunteers and 7,000 organizations -- they're all working for this program and for people in need. today there have been many beautiful slogans and declarations, and at the same time the european commission and the council are deciding to abolish this programme. i would also like to draw attention to the problem of food waste. in the european union, we throw away millions of tonnes of food, billions of euros go to waste. i would like to join these programs that are designed to educate european union citizens to reduce food waste and waste.
in writing. i would like to begin by congratulating mr daerden on his comprehensive report. today we are proud of the achievements of the first convention of the european cooperation platform organised by the commission and the polish presidency in october in krakow. the convention showed that national poverty reduction targets are still not enough to lift 20 million europeans out of poverty and social exclusion. this means that the objectives and the national reform programmes, which will be the basis for the operational programmes in the future, need to be revised. the convention stressed the need to focus interventions on areas such as child poverty, youth unemployment and the situation of older people, as well as the need to involve young people more widely in decision-making processes. she also stressed that employment is the most effective way out of poverty. i therefore believe that support for smes is crucial. the convention's work shows that the report by mr daerden reflects well the direction of the platform's future activities.
in writing. – speaking as a member of the new faction ‘solidary poland’ and as a former solidarność activist in the 1980s, i wholeheartedly approve of efforts to foster greater eu solidarity in the international sphere. nevertheless, as a trade economist i am also keenly aware of the increasing possibility of eu economies re-entering recession in the months ahead. i would like to ask therefore whether the commission and colleagues would consider a reappraisal of the 0.7% of gni development aid target in advance of the 2015 deadline? surely an honest reappraisal would be better for our partners’ planning, and for our own credibility, than the maintenance of a target which is highly likely to be missed. if not, and if the commission and colleagues agree that additional tax revenues are unlikely to be forthcoming in the years ahead, could the commission and colleagues clarify which programmes they would recommend cutting to ensure the target for 2015 is met?
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. homelessness and poverty are becoming more and more common problems, and the global economic and financial crisis has made them even more so. the european union faces a major challenge because the responsibility for combating many forms of social exclusion lies primarily with the member states, which, faced with economic and social problems, are making savings that often affect the most vulnerable in the first place. this is why all the work of the european commission and parliament to support member states in the fight against poverty and social exclusion is important. we cannot allow the european social fund to be used inefficiently either. it cannot be that millions of euros are spent on training which does not help the unemployed to re-enter the labour market or to acquire the new skills they need. it is very important to create a european cooperation platform to support the most vulnerable groups in society and to ensure that the ec exercises proper control over the effectiveness of the funds it spends. thank you.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur for the thorough preparation of his report and for reminding us of the challenges facing the poorest. mr frédéric daerden rightly emphasises the importance of fighting poverty - the poor material situation of europeans is one of the main threats to social order in the 21st century. the statistics are not encouraging. in lands that are generally considered to be developed, millions of people live in poverty. the scale of the problem is enormous, and it is worth promoting all activation initiatives, at national and community level. extremely poor people often do not know their rights and therefore cannot access aid. their situation is often the result of a coincidence of events beyond their control, and therefore actions to improve their situation should be largely state-led. i know that the commission's initiative to designate 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion has certainly helped to intensify efforts to improve integration within european society. all we can do is keep working to bring all the excluded back into society.
madam president! in poland, annual honey production has decreased by 4 000 tonnes over the last 10 years, and the number of beehives has fallen from 2 000 000 to 1 800 000. in other european union countries, the declines are even more dramatic. these data show that the population of the most useful insects is dying at an alarming rate. in the union, bees pollinate 80% of crops, which is why it is so important to change policy towards this sector. the processes that are taking place today can have irreversible effects on the ecosystem, and one of the priorities of future agricultural policy is to actively promote biodiversity. we need money to study the population, to find out why it's declining, and to treat the bee diseases. attention should also be paid to human activities which, through more conscious use of chemicals, can contribute to creating favourable conditions for the development of beekeeping. i voted for the report, of course.
in writing. −the european parliament's initiative on the coordination of guarantees required of companies, expressed in the form of amendments to the directive, will significantly improve the scope of the law in this area. the european union, as a legislator, has done more in the area of company law than in any other area of private law. the harmonisation of legislation in the different member states through directives reduces the risks arising from differences in the legal systems of the individual member states. protecting shareholders, creditors and business partners and laying the foundations for an economic area without internal borders, where the basic conditions of corporate law applicable to companies are the same, should be our priority. the new law should not inhibit the growth of european companies but should stimulate the integration of the european internal market by guaranteeing companies a freedom of movement similar to that existing in national markets. i hope that further work on harmonising the law in this area will be directed towards improving the position of companies and other stakeholders, and that implementation will be more efficient.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the main objective of the member states of the athens convention in force is the safety of passenger ships and the regulation of the rights of their passengers. however, this does not mean that action should not be taken to improve legal protection, especially if it is in the interest of union citizens. the convention does not sufficiently regulate, inter alia, the nature and extent of the liability of carriers and the minimum insurance requirements. the current protocol therefore imposes greater obligations on carriers vis-à-vis passengers, and defines liability for damage resulting from accidents and possible terrorist attacks and related claims and insurance procedures. it is also a good idea for the european union to become a party to the protocol, which strengthens its competence in this area. i voted in favour of the resolution, hoping to improve the quality of services and the safety of maritime transport.
in writing. - the athens convention was signed in 1974, but many issues concerning passenger safety remained unresolved. as a member of the committee on transport and tourism, i believe that maritime transport is a very important form of transport for the citizens of the union. this document is of importance in terms of the liability of carriers. in the event of the carrier's error or negligence, passengers have the legal standing to act. it solves the problems of passenger insurance, it gives passengers the possibility of direct claims against the insurer. i endorsed that report.
in writing. − although there is a 2008 horizontal agreement between the european union and jordan, the european union is seeking to establish a euro-mediterranean airspace between the eu and jordan. the agreement will facilitate the work of carriers from all member states and jordan will become a country where aviation law will be aligned with eu requirements. issues such as safety and air traffic management will be consistent with the legislation in force in the union. i think it's worth developing trade relations with such a big partner as jordan is without a doubt. the agreement is also part of the development of the european neighbourhood policy. i hope that this agreement will increase the number of passengers and the revenue from opening this market. i voted for the report.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur, mrs olda sehnalowa, for the excellent preparation of your report. as rapporteur for the report on the us-eu aviation agreement, i welcome the ambitious overall agreement between the eu and jordan. as in the case of the usa agreement, the agreement introduces uniform conditions for air carriers in all 27 member states and benefits them irrespective of their nationality. eu air carriers will be able to provide services between any point in the eu and jordan. the commission notes that the agreement between the european union and jordan was signed on 27 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 july 2014. the added value of the agreement is the possibility of extending it to create a common euro-mediterranean airspace.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the agreement on cooperation in the field of air transport with georgia aims at establishing a common airspace. the agreements concluded between the member states and georgia have not always been in line with union practice and have not always provided for any tangible benefits for carriers, which always affects the frequency of services. the agreement is a good example of cooperation under the neighbourhood policy. it is also a key element in the negotiation of an association agreement with georgia, which will further strengthen its credibility on the european market. the estimated increase in passenger numbers by 25000 in the first year of the agreement and the associated profits seem to be a good forecast for the future. the warsaw-tbilisi route operated by lot airlines has been very popular in poland for a year. safety regulations and the principle of non-discrimination and equal participation of all economic operators in the common airspace are also important. i support the resolution.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i fully support the initiative to update the bankruptcy regulation of 29 may 2000. since its entry into force, a lot has changed, with 15 new countries joining the union and the phenomenon of company groupings becoming extremely intense. from today's perspective, the solutions proposed in the regulation of 11 years ago seem anachronistic. particular attention should be paid to the need to establish a clear definition of the debtor's centre of main interest (comi) in order to correctly identify the jurisdiction for insolvency proceedings. the misinterpretation of the term comi is a source of confusion in the bankruptcy of foreign companies. the location of the comi determines the jurisdiction of the court to open insolvency proceedings. the main factor determining location is the identification of the place where the debtor's business is managed and whether it is recognisable as a place of business for third parties. here difficulties may arise (when a foreign court) declares the bankruptcy of a company from another country, and considers that this company has a comi in another member state because the company is controlled by a company in that member state. the european court of justice tried to resolve this dilemma in a judgment of 2 may 2006 (europood ifsc limited), but unfortunately this did not resolve the problem completely, which confirms the need for a clearer definition. i also stress the need to interpret the regulation in line with directive 2008/94/ec on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of a company. member states should not undermine the rights of workers in insolvency proceedings. i support the proposal to introduce a creditors' ranking in which priority would be given to employees with at least minimum standards of protection, regardless of the different national legal definitions.
in writing. - this vote is a great success for the european parliament. the union has taken up short selling and credit risk swap speculation, which put member states' finances at risk. we are showing financial market participants that when there is the political will, we can do the most effective thing.
in writing. − recognition of professional qualifications is a prerequisite for the mobility of workers within the european common market. experience with the functioning of directive 2005/35/ec has shown that many areas in the recognition of professional qualifications need to be changed. in the resolution we adopted, we therefore pointed out the elements which we believe should be simplified to make life easier for citizens who, after moving to another member state, wish to continue working in a profession which they are entitled to practise in their country of origin. we call for more professions to be covered by the system of automatic recognition of professional qualifications, for the introduction of the european professional charter, for the use of the latest it tools and for simplification of procedures. i am convinced that the changes proposed by the european parliament will help to improve the european single market by helping citizens to move about in their careers. i will follow with interest and participate in the work on the amendments to the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications which the european commission intends to present later this year.
in writing. - fellow workers! the aim of the professional qualifications directive is to enable any eu citizen to have his or her qualifications recognised in order to pursue a regulated profession or to carry on an activity in a member state other than the one in which the professional qualifications were obtained. it is important to update the existing rules, inter alia, by setting minimum requirements for training, its duration and effects. it is important that europeans are free to work across the eu, as the benefits of a competitive european internal market will be an important driver of eu development, especially now in a time of economic and financial crisis. i personally support the report by emma mcclarkin and that is why i voted for it. thank you.
in writing. − the project of a common europe is an effectively functioning single market that removes barriers and regulations, thus enabling citizens to move around the euro area. one of the fundamental rights is the freedom to move and work in different member states. more than 17% of eu citizens surveyed say they are willing to work in a member state other than their country of origin, compared to 2% who do. this is the result of the continuing barriers to free access to employment and the time-consuming and complex procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications. the directive on this matter, which came into force in 2007, does not work everywhere. we therefore adopted a report on the enforcement and revision of the directive, in which we propose changes to simplify the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications for 4,700 regulated professions across the union in order to promote the mobility of workers in the eu, and the introduction of the european professional charter. the amendments to the vocational qualifications directive must be aimed primarily at increasing the mobility of workers in the face of demographic challenges and rising unemployment rates in some member states.
in writing. −the european parliament's report on the enforcement of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is a response to dynamic demographic changes and changes in the economy and labour market. the free movement of highly qualified workers is an important factor in the development of the eu economy and a competitive internal market. especially now, in times of economic crisis, citizens should function in a friendly legal environment that facilitates mobility. in 2005, a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications was adopted. we can already see that it needs further refinement and revision. there is therefore a lot more to be done to ensure that citizens can take up work anywhere in europe without hindrance, based on the knowledge and skills they have acquired in another member state. we need to simplify procedures to make life easier for citizens. in the consultations i organised in poland, almost 3 000 people appealed to the european commission to introduce the european professional charter as soon as possible. i am glad that this report supports this demand of young poles. i hope that the charter will be implemented as soon as possible and that all citizens will be able to benefit more from the single market. that is why i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications.
in writing. − poles who go to work in other eu countries still have to face a complicated procedure for the recognition of their professional qualifications. the directive on this matter, which came into force in 2007, does not work everywhere and is far from perfect. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − in a resolution adopted, the european parliament sets out the direction the european commission should take in consumer policy in the coming years. we believe that the consumer and the decisions he makes are of the utmost importance for the proper functioning of the european single market. the resolution calls in particular for the correct implementation of the consumer rights directive, for increased consumer and seller confidence in online shopping, for a reduction in consumer exposure to dangerous products, including through the rapex system, and for a more accessible and effective consumer redress system. i would like to stress that a particularly important task for the coming years is to strengthen the role of consumer organisations, particularly from the new member states. consumer organisations are effective in protecting consumers' interests and do a great deal of work to raise awareness of consumer rights. unfortunately, they often have funding problems. i therefore believe that consumer organisations should be supported.
in writing. - fellow workers! the european commission is to set up a consumer rights programme by may 2012 covering all consumer initiatives. the programme should be a kind of umbrella for the important issues and challenges in this area. it's very important that we analyze all the problems that consumers are facing, given the current global crisis. an appropriate legal framework should be created to place the consumer at the heart of the single market. it is important that we emphasise the importance of consumer education, promote sustainable consumption and protect children from false advertising. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the new strategy for consumer protection policy. thank you.
, in writing. - the protection of consumer rights is a european-wide problem. this is a problem that requires new strategies, new solutions. the problem affects all of us because we are all consumers. we need to know our rights and our possible rules of conduct. recent studies by the european commission show that consumers need to be empowered, educated and given more access to information. the 2011 results published by the european commission show a clear improvement in almost all member states. but they also show a lack of awareness of consumer rights in an era of active development, computerization, the internet era. so it's incredibly important to have access to information so that you can make every decision with an informed mind. all the activities to raise awareness are a challenge for the european union to take concrete action to improve the position of consumers. the report shows strategies and opportunities to make consumers aware of their rights and obligations through a wide range of activities, such as promoting healthy food and nutrition. clear and transparent information on the health benefits is needed to inform the consumer of his choice. the information on food should be clear and understandable so as to enable the consumer to make the right choice. this is particularly true of children, who are consumers themselves but are still developing their awareness of the issue.
in writing. - fellow workers! recently, there has been an increase in bee mortality worldwide, which threatens the stability of the environment and food production. eu institutions and member state governments are increasingly speaking out about the problem, while also seeking to increase their efforts to protect honeybees. statistics show that in germany, for example, there are only 720,000 honeybees, whereas there should be 5 million, and the same is true in italy. there is no doubt that the beekeeping sector needs more support, as the problem is cross-border. i believe that there is a need to create a special programme of aid for beekeepers under the direct aid scheme and for this reason, amongst other things, i voted in favour of the csaba tabajdi report on honeybee health and the challenges for the beekeeping sector. thank you.
in writing. - nearly 85% of all plant species and over 75% of our food production depend on pollination by bees. at the same time, the beekeeping sector is an integral part of our agriculture, because bee products are very important and unique agricultural products, not only for consumption, but also for the production of medicines and other purposes. the beekeeping and related sectors are a significant source of employment and income for over 600 000 beekeepers in europe. we are seeing an increase in bee mortality, which is threatening food production and environmental stability. however, there are no fully representative comparative data on the loss of bee colonies. it is therefore appropriate to harmonise the national data collection systems. to identify the causes of bee mortality, research in this area should be specified and increased, and joint programmes should be undertaken at european level it is not clear how much and to what extent pesticides cause disease and pests in bees. one thing is certain: training farmers in the introduction of good practices in the use of plant protection products harmless to bees should be encouraged. i want to point out that there is a lack of adequate research on the possible negative effects of gm crops on bee health. let's remember that agriculture cannot exist without bees, and bees cannot exist without agriculture. we need sustainable agriculture that produces the right quantity and quality of food.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because almost 80 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty. i believe that taking the initiative in this matter is an important and necessary step to combat the current state of affairs. this problem also affects the residents who remain in employment. in recent years, the poverty rate has also increased in the european union. the fight against social exclusion and poverty should be of interest not only to the competent authorities, such as national governments, but also to the european institutions, including the european parliament.
in writing. − i supported the report on the european platform for cooperation against poverty and social exclusion. as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i pay particular attention to the poverty of women. on 8 march 2011, the european parliament adopted a resolution on this issue. this resolution and other anti-discrimination strategies should be implemented in parallel with the policy strategies defined in the platform. equality is one of the prerequisites for sustainable development, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. as the author of the opinion on european cooperation in vocational education and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy, i believe that it is necessary to implement programmes of lifelong learning, distance learning, vocational training and non-formal learning and to ensure equal access to these programmes. i call on the member states to maintain as a priority in the programming of the structural funds investment in the expansion of the supply of education and training and in the strategy to support the transition from training to employment. 16% of the population of the european union lives below the poverty line. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres. the commission must provide sufficient funds in the eu budget to implement the key initiatives referred to in the commission communication on a european platform for cooperation against poverty and social exclusion and in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i have great respect for the report discussed and adopted and for the debate we are having on this subject in the ep. i can't imagine not dealing with the increase in poverty in the midst of the economic crisis, mainly due to rising unemployment and declining support for the poorest. we have allocated huge amounts of money to support banks and various financial institutions, so we have to find many times smaller amounts of money to fight poverty. in these actions, we must pay particular attention to children, the unemployed, the homeless and the excluded, for today, but thinking about tomorrow, we must focus on education, support for large families, eliminating unemployment. it's just that it's important to grow the economy and fight the crisis. against this background, the lack of action and decision by the council of the european union on the free distribution of food to the poorest is incomprehensible, and we should be ashamed of it. it is incomprehensible that some member states are blocking the solution of this problem.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the president of the commission on the commission's work programme for 2012. as you know, this is a very important point. it is also linked to our framework agreement with the european commission. the point is that we should work together in some way to prepare the work programme of the european institutions for the coming year. the european parliament will discuss this matter. we will also be making our views on this matter in december. i would like to ask president barroso to speak.
mr. chairman, please! i listened to your speech very carefully. i appreciate you as a politician, and i've enjoyed many of them myself. but in a situation where we have a sense of crisis, we have a sense of the weakness of the lisbon treaty, we also have a sense of the weakening of your office, i expected you to say something more than just an accountant. i was hoping you could tell me about the causes of the crisis in europe. i would also like to hear from you in future speeches about what is at the heart of it. you should be the one talking about a return to traditional republican values. not to go around the world with a hat for money, but to go back to the traditional virtue of thrift, thrift, talk about the demographic crisis and the family crisis. europe is in crisis, and it's not enough to have an accountant, it's necessary to have a policy that defines the fundamental problems that are at the root of this crisis. these aren't just accounting problems, these are much more serious problems. these are the problems with our relationship with our neighbours, with our closure, with our inability to save, with the fact that savings programmes, change programmes, are only on paper. we're waiting for your voice!
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in your state of the union address of 28 september, you said that, quote, 'greece is, and will remain, a member of the euro area'. in view of the recent events in that country, i hope that the european commission will continue to strongly support the above commitment and will firmly resist attempts to exclude greece from the eurozone and/or the european union. i am convinced that the only solution to this crisis is a european action, consolidated and in solidarity. i hope that this is what the european financial stability facility and the european stability mechanism will do. it is now up to the commission to ensure that these mechanisms are sufficiently robust and flexible to cope with current and future crises. i would also like to express my support for the creation of so-called european bonds, which i believe can play a key role in balancing the euro and restoring confidence in the community currency. given that the introduction of european bonds will require changes to the current eu treaty, i trust that the commission will keep parliament regularly informed in the context of the future action plan in this area. my final point concerns the financial transaction tax proposed by my political group a year ago. this is another innovative project that could help to reduce the burden of savings that unfortunately mostly affect ordinary citizens.
in writing. 2012 is the european year of older people's activity and solidarity between generations. the commission's programme must include a strategy for active ageing. the number of older people will increase markedly in all eu member states over the coming decades. by 2050, the number of people over 65 is projected to increase by 70% and those over 80 by 170%. the elderly, as a growing social group, have relatively low incomes. many of them are among the 16% of the eu population who live below the poverty line, have difficulty finding employment and housing, and have limited access to basic services, especially health and social services. according to the gus, there are about 6.4 million elderly people in poland, which represents about 17% of the country's population. by 2035, this group is projected to represent some 27% of the total population. at the same time, the average number of people of working age in the eu is projected to decline. this creates two main challenges and objectives for the commission's work in 2012: adapting healthcare to the needs of an ageing population and ensuring that it is as long-lasting and effective as possible.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council and the commission on the durban conference on climate change, by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000216/2011 - b7-0639/2011), (o-000217/2011 - b7-0640/2011). with the durban conference just a few weeks away, this debate seems particularly important. in line with the priorities of the european parliament and the european union, this is one of our most important issues and we would like to see it remain on the agenda, to remain relevant and to be aware of our objectives in durban, even in times of economic difficulties and crisis.
ladies and gentlemen! our resolution that we have prepared this year is much better than the one we presented last year. we set ourselves much more ambitious goals then. we thought that if we did that, everyone would come with us. unfortunately, it turns out that these targets are out of reach for many countries. we had a big problem with the presentation of our resolution in this way. and that's why the most important issue right now, the most important priority is that we define the future of the expiring kyoto protocol in the climate negotiations, that we define conditions that can be implemented by other countries. ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to be one of those europeans who have the slogan that the chinese or the americans have: 'economy first, you fools!' we should balance our goals and present our proposals in a way that others will want to join us in pursuing them. we created a green fund to support emerging economies. and we also have to recognize that it's not china, it's not brazil that are the emerging economies, because they've already come a long way. these are funds that are meant to genuinely support the poorest of the poor. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. the european union is the only international entity that wants to be a leader in the fight against climate change in times of crisis. we're imposing on ourselves new limits on greenhouse gas emissions, and we're stifling our own industry. the resolution presented at the upcoming climate summit in durban is similar. we want to be leaders for ourselves when the whole world is going the other way. i therefore oppose proposals to increase co2 reductions and ideas to impose green taxes on energy-intensive industries in the member states. it should be noted that in the last year, canada has dramatically increased its emissions by 25%, rapidly expanding china by 10%, india by over 8%, and the us by about 4%. even our closest neighbor to the east, ukraine, is planning to increase its use of coal for power generation from 22% to 33% by 2030, which will automatically increase co2 emissions. enough of the concessions on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. this is all the more so since the commission has not been able to present an analysis of the impact of the changes on the european heavy industry and energy sector for some time. the green energy development presented here seems to be a poor substitute. in durban, our partners have to take the next step, we can wait for them.
on behalf of the ecr group. i share the regret of my predecessors that there are no representatives of the council, no representatives of the presidency, at this very important debate. they should be, their presence here is mandatory. i think it is worth repeating what we said at the meeting with the president of the court of justice during the budgetary control committee: the court's work is very important for building the authority of the european union institutions, especially in times of crisis, when the european taxpayer will want to see each euro spent as it is intended. i think it is very sad that there are so many irregularities in the cohesion fund, because it is the cohesion fund that benefits the most the countries of the new union. i'm glad to have this document because it's a necessary document for our discharge.
mr. chairman, please! talking about finances requires a lot of precision. i would ask the court to be very specific in the debate in parliament about what we are talking about, because even in this room there are different types of figures that are intimidating. and we have to be very clear about when we talk about the minimum error rate, when we talk about the maximum error rate, when we talk about the most likely error rate, and when we talk about the frequency of errors, because it's already been in the public debate that the usual suspect, or the cohesion policy, has 49% of errors, and that refers to frequency. i would ask the court, particularly during the debate in parliament, to specify precisely what we are talking about, because if we do not specify it, there will be a lot of misunderstandings.
i'd like to thank you and refer to my colleague's speech. and indeed, when you read the material, you don't really know the scale of these anomalies. so i decided to do a slightly different kind of analysis. well, if we assume that the scale of these irregularities in the area where the problems are growing, i am thinking here of the area of energy and transport cohesion, is 7.7%, then, when we convert this into amounts, we have the following situation: 41 billion euros have been spent on this, which means that the scale is 3 billion euros. that's obviously 3 billion euros too much. i would urge that we consider whether the methods of countering this are effective. because if it gets a little worse year after year, then you can say that the methods are not very effective. but let's remember that it's not the whole, it's not the half, but it's the margin. thank you, sir.
the next item is the debate on the following oral question to the council on the report on the eu's responsibility for financing development by michèle striffler, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000248/2011 - b7-0642/2011), and the oral question to the commission on the report on the eu's responsibility for financing development by michèle striffler, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000249/2011 - b7-0643/2011).
well, mrs. sinclaire, i don't think this is a matter of order. we have a little problem because ms. striffler is not present but, as you know the question, we can start without her contribution for the moment. i therefore give the floor to mr stanowski representing the council.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the council shares the concerns expressed by ms stiefler on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation about the impact of the global economic and financial crisis on developing countries, especially the poorest countries. the council also recognises that it is precisely because of this multi-dimensional crisis that it is more important than ever to deliver on our commitment to reach the target of 0.7% of gross national income in official development assistance by 2015. this was confirmed by the european council in june 2011. however, it cannot be denied that the aid-granting countries are also strongly affected by the global situation of the crisis which imposes often drastic budgetary constraints, also in the economies of developed countries, including the economies of the member states. we are experiencing this crisis and we are talking about it in various european forums. we have to realize that without a lot of effort, we may not be able to achieve the collective goals of development aid, development cooperation. it is all the more important that our citizens understand why development policy and the budgetary means associated with it are so important. in this regard, we welcome the commission's communication on enhancing the impact of the union's development policy and action programme for change. he showed up at the right time. the council would like to see a debate on the appropriate fiscal and monetary policies as soon as possible, policies that ensure that aid is spent efficiently, delivers the best possible results, increases impact and is used to encourage further development finance. the commission's proposal is to set up a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (email) to monitor the implementation of the directive. in may 2012, we expect the council to adopt conclusions on this matter. despite the difficulties and challenges of the past and the current year, the eu's collective oda reached eur 53.8 billion in 2010, more than ever before. i cannot agree with those who only see the negative side of the situation. we have made significant progress in achieving our objectives for this assistance. i would like to emphasize again that this is the largest amount we have ever managed to allocate in the framework of official development assistance. the european union remains by far the world's largest donor in the development area. between 2004 and 2010, it and the member states contributed more than half of all aid to developing countries. we should be proud of that. despite the global financial and economic crisis in recent years, most member states have managed to increase their spending on official development assistance. other countries are moving closer to the donor group, contributing 0.7% of their gross national income to aid. recalling that each member state decides on its own expenditure on official development assistance, the first annual report to the european council on development aid objectives, the council invited member states to take realistic, verifiable actions to meet their individual oda commitments by 2015 and to exchange information on these actions and planned oda expenditure in the following financial year, as well as on their plans for the remaining period until 2015. official development assistance will continue to play a key role also as a complement to and catalyst for other sources of financing. however, it is not limited to development funding and support. that's why it's so important to implement all the parts of the monterey consensus. all of them, not just the ones about financial obligations. the council will continue to take a comprehensive approach to development issues. official development assistance alone is not enough. we need to mobilise development finance from all possible sources, and ensure that our aid is effective, including through democratic control of aid use, in order to fight poverty and achieve the millennium development goals.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, honourable minister stanowski, i would like to thank mrs striffler and the development committee for this timely question. the european commission relies on the confirmation by all the eu heads of state and government at the june 2011 european council that they plan and are committed to achieve the 0.7% aid targets by 2015. the ambitious eu commitment to the 0.7% oda target is a strong indicator of our resolve in helping the developing countries. as this collective target is based on the individual commitments by member states, the eu union collective official development aid level depends on the individual budgetary decisions by all eu member states. i really believe that they will stand by their words despite the complicated economic climate in the eu. the european commission will continue strongly to call on all member states to respect their commitments. i admit that the eu has fallen short of its collective intermediate indicative target for 2010. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that, compared to 2009, european union official development aid increased by more than eur 4.5 billion, reaching eur 53 billion in 2010. in the global context, the eu is leading the world on development aid increases. since 2004, we have provided 65% of global aid increases and today the european union accounts for more than half of global development aid. official development aid remains important for reaching the millennium development goals’ targets and all development partners can also be called upon to contribute their fair share. it is also true that the european union budget could and should be a part of the increase of official development aid. in the multiannual financial framework proposal, the european commission has put forward increasing resources allocated to development aid. the proposed increase reflects the commitment to reach the 0.7% target, under the assumption that the share of eu-channelled oda remains stable. at the same time, official development aid increases alone will not be sufficient to meet all the financing needs of the developing world, to address the numerous global challenges. to bridge the financing gap and provide the necessary resources, they should be ready to put all their efforts into mobilising all financial resources, including private resources, because only in this way can we dramatically increase the scale of support. this also includes looking at mechanisms, such as guarantees and blending loans and grants. i believe the g20 process, under the french presidency, has started a very important discussion on a financial transaction tax and that these resources should also be used for development needs. there are other sources indicated in the gates report, which we should look at and discuss at the appropriate time. but i would also like to emphasise other aspects that are of particular importance at this time when each euro spent in the european union is looked upon twice or three times – that the money spent provides exactly the results that we should expect – so that means aid efficiency is crucial. we will look at the global relations in this respect, between the developed world and the developing world, to ensure that aid money is spent efficiently, transparently and with the profitability that is needed. i was also asked a question about a peer review. definitely, the european commission fully supports parliament’s full involvement in the oecd/dac peer review and a peer review team will be coming again and will be working with parliament to find the right answers for eu development cooperation. we are very much looking at the result of this peer review. in previous times, it gave a lot of very valuable contributions on how to involve it and i believe it is the right instrument internationally to reflect on it. and the last point i would like to emphasise is that, even under the lisbon treaty, a rather complicated treaty, we had excellent cooperation with the polish presidency on development issues and i would like to thank minister stanowski for his engagement in keeping development issues rightly on the council agenda. his presence today is very much a confirmation of his personal engagement and that the commission, council and parliament need to work together in this area to help the poorest people.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to go. i would like to thank mrs striffler for the motion for a resolution on the report on the clearance of accounts for development funds. i agree with the council and the commission that one of the keys to sustainable development is to mobilise internal resources in the partner countries. in our resolution, we call on eu donors to give priority to capacity building in this area. this is particularly the case for building stronger fiscal systems and better financial policies. we also call for increased efforts to promote tax transparency and reporting by individual countries and to combat tax fraud and illicit capital flows. we therefore ask the european commission to make the fight against tax havens, tax fraud and illicit capital flight a key element of its development policy. but the resolution goes beyond the current situation. in it, we call on the european union and the member states to do what the commissioner has said to look for other sources of international finance than oda that could be used for development including the proposal of innovative levies to finance global public tasks, including development aid, although not all members of parliament believe that this innovative levy should be a financial transaction tax to significantly reduce the cost of remittances, which are known to be an important source of revenue for developing countries, more frequently than the combination of grants and loans from the european investment bank, although the commission's position is very clear that this mechanism cannot lead to reductions in aid, support for microfinance programmes and improve access to financial services in developing countries. finally, i would also like to say that it is very important for us to recall the principle of coherence of other policies with development objectives, which is in line with the treaty of lisbon. we call once again for the implementation of this principle and for structural action to eradicate poverty and to link european policies.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the joint parliamentary assembly is an important element of democratic cooperation with the acp countries. due to the regularity and quality of its work, it has managed to establish itself as an indispensable actor in north-south cooperation. we want the european union's cooperation with the acp to be a partnership, and this assembly is succeeding in doing so. our partners are the akp mps. two meetings of the joint parliamentary assembly took place in 2010: the 19th session in tenerife in april and the 20th plenary session in kinshasa in late november and early december. nine resolutions and a declaration on the second review of the cotonou partnership agreement were adopted. in the same year, a regional meeting was also held in seychelles. in addition, a working group on the assembly's working methods was set up in 2010 to strengthen its political role and improve the efficiency of its activities. the commissioner responsible for development, mr piebalgs, was present. the co-presidents of the acp-eu council also attended the first meeting, but only the acp council was represented in kinshasa. the absence of the council of the european union from the question time was regrettable and the assembly decided to convey its regrets to catherine ashton, while urging her to avoid a similar situation at future sessions. i am glad that this matter has been resolved and at the next assembly in lomé, notabene next week, with mrs ashton's agreement the council will be represented by minister stanowski. the assembly's standing committees met four times: twice during plenary sessions and twice in brussels between sessions. i would remind you that the committee's main task is to draw up reports which are then adopted by the plenary. in addition, committees are responsible for following up resolutions by interviewing the european commission officials responsible for the field. it also provides an opportunity for a deeper dialogue on the follow-up to resolutions adopted. the economic development, finance and trade committee has been given the additional task of checking regional strategy papers for the acp regions. this committee appointed co-rapporteurs for each regional strategy paper, and the proposals for these documents were adopted at the tenerife meeting. the european commission submits national and regional strategic documents to parliamentary scrutiny, both here in the european parliament and in the parliaments of the acp states. the development committee and the joint parliamentary assembly should monitor the situation in this regard and ensure that this parliamentary oversight tool is used properly. the assembly also plays an important role in monitoring the negotiations on economic partnership agreements. the hearings with the main negotiators from both sides, meetings with business and civil society representatives and the dialogue between meps and those from the global south have helped to make the process more transparent and to better address local issues. in 2010, the european commission and the acp states negotiated a second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement. the revision envisages an increased role for the parliamentary assembly in the scrutiny of the other institutions, as well as the regionalisation of the acp group as a result of the economic partnership agreements (epas) process. the joint parliamentary assembly should follow these developments closely, as their consequences will determine the future of the assembly itself. these are the elements i have tried to include in my report. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kaczmarek, on behalf of the less than 20 people unfortunately in this room, on a very good and professional report. not only the frame of this painting, but the painting itself was painted very artfully. i have been to many eu-acp parliamentary assemblies in mali, papua new guinea, the netherlands and many other countries. it's a much-needed instrument, not just for help, but for cooperation. it is particularly important to increase parliamentary scrutiny in these countries. we need to spread the word to our partners. and often they're not exactly democratic. we cannot export an ideology, impose our values or even less our anti-values. we should help, but also - and i say this very strongly - we should control very closely the money we give, because in a time of crisis the european taxpayer demands that we control that money. what i'm saying may not be popular, but i think it needs to be said very clearly. at the same time, i would like to stress that this development aid is very much needed. i'm glad we did this.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i think that was very encouraging for the further work of the joint parliamentary assembly, because i believe the experience that we get helps us in future meetings. the next meeting in togo will now definitely be much more productive compared with the previous one. i would like also to assure you that the issue of non-discrimination on a sexual orientation basis is also always on the agenda in my bilateral meetings, because we should also clearly understand that there is a need to discuss with partners why we believe that there should be change in their legislation. it cannot be done by force but by conviction and explanation, so i believe that the whole process of the joint parliamentary assembly helps us to address the issues where much discussion is needed. one of the issues that i have been asked about in one of the interventions was to do with land grabs. we definitely ask our partner countries for full transparency with land deals when we work with these countries. on the separation between the external action service and the european commission, we do not make artificial boundaries. basically, we all work for good and productive relations with our partner countries, so we try very much to work together on the issues at the same time. to make a rough distinction: the eeas is responsible for external relations, the commission is responsible for development cooperation, but there is no simple boundary and both services work together to achieve the best possible results. i would finish with again thanking the rapporteur for a lot of positive things in the report. expectations are always high, but i believe it is a very difficult assembly because on one side the eu is very coherent while the acp countries are definitely much more divergent. it is not therefore an easy assembly, but it has proven its value and the leadership of louis michel is very helpful in this respect.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you do this. i too would like to thank the commissioner and the members who took part in this debate for the interesting debate and the interesting votes. but i would also like to thank those colleagues who have been involved in the work of the joint parliamentary assembly, some for many years: mr martínez martínez, mrs roithová, mr gahler and the co-chairman, mr louis michel, are all people who do a tremendous amount of work for the joint parliamentary assembly. i agree with what mr goerens said. not everything is optimal, not everything is good. please note paragraph 2 of the resolution, where we call for greater participation and involvement of meps in the meetings and activities of the assembly, because if we are to change things for the better, we must start by changing ourselves. we had a long discussion about it. it seems that the only way to increase our involvement is to better correlate with the parliament's work calendar, and we hope that this will happen in the future. the same remarks made by mr cashman are also in our resolution. we see a deficiency in the principle of non-discrimination; it is contained in paragraph 18. we see that in kinshasa we didn't talk enough about the violence in eastern congo, so less positive elements were also included in this text. however, i am very pleased that there are more positive elements, because this allows us to look optimistically to the future, and i hope that these positive elements will be decisive for the future activities of the joint parliamentary assembly.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to congratulate the european parliament, and in particular the chair of the committee on culture and education, ms pack, as well as the rapporteur mrs paliadeli and the co-rapporteurs, for the high quality work accomplished on the european heritage label, and for having reached an agreement with the council for adoption of the text in early second reading. as you know, this proposal was one of the very first to be adopted by the new commission just after it took office, and it is one of our priorities in the field of culture for the years to come. through this label, our aim is to give european citizens, especially young people, new opportunities to learn about our common yet diverse cultural heritage and about the history and the building of the european union. i strongly believe that this will contribute to bringing european citizens closer to the european union. the european heritage label will also help to increase cultural tourism, bringing economic benefits as well. the commission is firmly convinced that the compromise that was reached is very positive for the three institutions, and that it is fully in line with the ambitions we all share for the europe heritage label. this compromise will ensure the quality and the prestige of the label which are absolutely primordial for the long-term success of the action. we also appreciate that the rules and procedures were kept as clear, light and flexible as possible so that they can be easily understood by all european citizens and easily implemented by the member states and by the european union. i would therefore like to thank parliament once again for the excellent cooperation we had on this file.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. these are documents with which my political group and i personally have a problem. it's not a bad document, it's not something that we're decidedly -- programmatically -- against. but this is one of those documents that doesn't have to be made. i think that one could apply to such documents the advice of a certain philosopher to eliminate beings beyond need. and i have a feeling that this document is such a superfluous entity that maybe we shouldn't be dealing with it as politicians, as the european union. i don't quite believe what the commissioner believes, what katarina neveďalová believes. this means that the introduction of this european heritage sign will indeed stimulate the economy and tourism. i do not see that direct link and i am afraid that the money that will be invested in this project - all the jurors that the rapporteur mentioned, all the experts that will have to be used for this - will be financed from the budget or from taxpayers' money, which does not necessarily translate into the welfare of the taxpayer. i see piotr boris in the chamber, i see mr scurria, i see mr tőké, i see mrs neveďalová, whose work in the committee on culture i appreciate, and i believe that you will be able to do without the ecr's votes in this vote. the ecr will abstain on this matter precisely so as not to falsely support something that we believe is unnecessary, that will cost taxpayers and that, in my view, does not necessarily support what is its task, namely to strengthen the sense of a common european identity. let this european identity be built not necessarily with the help of politicians, not necessarily with the help of the institutions of the european union. let it build itself.
i am sitting in a part of the room where we don't often hear voices of euro-enthusiasm, but i am not as sceptical about this as some of my colleagues sitting next to me. today, europe is faced with many problems that divide us, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for us to agree on many issues: the budget, the common agricultural policy. whatever these big issues are, they're causing some pretty tough controversy. so what can unite us is precious. and it can be a matter of cultural heritage, if we are wise to seek agreement on this issue. i think the fundamental thing is to wisely combine what is european heritage with what is national heritage, which is very often religious heritage, so as not to create contradictions in these issues. the results of this could be interesting and useful to europe at this difficult time for it. i imagine, for example, that such a symbol could be a city from my region łódź, whose history and development were created by people of different nationalities, not only poles, but also germans, jews and even russians. it is a good thing for the future of europe to showcase such examples of european heritage. thank you very much. thank you.
we are right to look for common european roots, but let us not look for them selectively. if we really want to return to our common european heritage, let us be bold and say that it was largely a christian heritage. i am very pleased with the votes in this parliament, which say that we have a lot in common, but also in this parliament a lot of people did not want a preamble to the european constitution which spoke of the christian heritage of our so-called old continent. there's a certain hypocrisy to it. i am very pleased with these initiatives, which can help younger generations of poles, frenchmen, germans, and therefore europeans, and not europeans as such, to discover their past. it is a step in the right direction, although i would very much like to avoid it being overly bureaucratic, because such bureaucracy can only produce the opposite of the intended effect.
i would like to welcome the transformation of the european heritage label into a european union initiative. the union should pay special attention to sites that have played a key role in european history. i fully agree with the idea that it is the symbolic value and the educational dimension that make up the european cultural heritage. in poland, such buildings as the gdańsk shipyard and the wawel cathedral have received the mark, and in france the house of robert schuman has. the award criteria proposed by the european parliament make this selection process more technically efficient. it is good that the number of proposals per country is limited to two and that there is a procedure for monitoring and maintaining proportionality in the representation of objects. the increase in the brand's prestige is also extremely beneficial in the context of the european cultural tourism that is so fashionable and desirable today, and is also associated with economic benefits. the european heritage label will be an important element of the promotion and will also provide a forum between the awarded sites. i hope and believe in the success of this enterprise. i believe that in the long term it will contribute to strengthening the common european identity. i hope that this sign will contribute to a better understanding of the history of our countries and peoples. the objects awarded with the label can become an extremely important tool for history education. it is important that they be places of encounter, of discussion, of dialogue, that they be full of life. europeans today need more than ever to build on the traditions of our continent, built on the judeo-christian foundations that have been the basis of europe's cultural power for centuries.
the commissioner, the president and the rapporteur! there's a saying that when the cannons fire, the music stops. and i am glad that we are reaching a compromise with the council today, because in times of crisis we should be even more emphatic about culture and our identity and, contrary to what my colleague said, we should learn from history, which means that the european heritage label initiative should be bold in speaking out about what was good and bad in europe, so that similar tragedies cannot happen in the future. and so i think that zygmunt bauman, the great polish philosopher, is right when he says that the most important thing in the whole construction of europe is that europe is the sum of cultural horizons from which we can draw lessons, because after all, everyone is everyone's neighbor. if we want to achieve economic, educational or tourist benefits, such as those of unesco, we should draw the lessons from what mr migalski said: this sign and this initiative must be done well, professionally, it cannot be another failed or moderately successful initiative. that is why i am making a great appeal to the commissioner to ensure that the cultural heritage label is really professionally prepared, so that it can absorb all europeans in this whole network of great promotion and achieve the right objective. thank you, sir.
good morning, welcome to our plenary. kolejnym punktem porządku dziennego są oświadczenia przewodniczących rady europejskiej, komisji i eurogrupy dotyczące zarządzania gospodarczego. wszyscy mamy świadomość, jak ta dyskusja jest ważna dla unii europejskiej, dla jej obywateli. dlatego będziemy z uwagą wsłuchiwać się w propozycje, które tutaj padną i także bardzo liczymy na otwartą i głęboką dyskusję. president herman van rompuy, president of the european council, president josé manuel barroso, president of the commission, and mr jean-claude juncker, prime minister, eurogroup leader, welcome to the european parliament. we will start with the speech by mr van rompuy, president of the european council.
mr president, it is telling and symbolic that this debate, which is supposed to be on economic governance, is on the eurozone in the absence of the president of the council. are we already in the two-tier europe? do we need, as pervenche berès proposes, a separate parliament for the eurozone? the present crisis is not a crisis of the euro as a currency – it is a healthy currency. it is a crisis of excessive indebtedness. dividing lines, if unavoidable although deplorable, should not go between the 17 and the 10. they do appear, de facto, between macroeconomically healthy and unhealthy countries. it would be fatal to institutionalise a smaller club within the bigger club. that would lead to unravelling and undoing the reunification of the continent, creating disunion in place of the union. for those left outside, it would be unfair and unacceptable to be ‘sort of’ expelled and then obliged to re-enter, for the second time, the true, so-called core europe. a split union will not work. a spread union will not work, but will further disintegrate creating divergent levels of solidarity. a split union would make the crisis deeper. the only answer is more convergence and more community method. we should say no to this two-speed europe. many non-eurozone member states are much more in the de facto first speed when it comes to growth, fiscal discipline and reform – my country poland included – than some eurozone member countries. moreover, they are, with two exceptions, committed and obliged – no derogation, as you said – to join the eurozone. should that lead to institutionalising a ‘euro- and economically healthy member states’ group also? certainly not. that would be against our principles of unity and solidarity. the answer is centrifugal euro plus. it equals 23 at least. eurozone summits, president van rompuy, should precede – not follow – eu summits.
mr. chairman, please! i think that there is something missing in this debate that would make us more trustworthy with the citizens of the european union. what am i talking about? well, we talk about the crisis in europe, but we talk about it as if it fell from the sky, as if it were part of some natural disaster, and yet you can trace the successive elements of mistakes that were made and that led to the crisis that we have today. if we want this crisis to be a new beginning, a better start for europe, then for the sake of our credibility, we must be honest about what parts of our design have failed. and that does not mean euroscepticism, it does not mean denying the european union. on the contrary, admitting mistakes will only enhance your credibility. i hope that this crisis will be an opportunity to build a europe that is more. but the question is: what does 'more europe' mean? does that mean more bureaucracy, more regulation and therefore less competition, does that mean more europe with a larger free and common market?
i listened with great interest to both president barroso's speeches and those made on behalf of the council by mr van rompuy and president juncker. i would like to say first of all that there seems to be a consensus in this house on one thing, namely that the proposed solutions which we are adopting, which are of a preventive and coordinating nature, with regard to credit rating agencies and short selling, are necessary. there is no doubt that they are necessary and desirable in the present volatile situation. it's just a matter of implementing them as soon as possible. the question is whether they address the root of the problem and solve problems for the future. we really need more ambitious actions and this base is just a prelude to that. the key today is to strive for real convergence, because only under such conditions can economic and monetary union develop effectively in the long term. community regulations must promote real convergence, otherwise we will simply drift, unable to develop and compete on world markets. convergence is first and foremost a common market, which guarantees our competitiveness on the world market. one point directed to mr van rompuy, if the president will allow it: the euro is not the property of the eurozone countries. the euro is a value that is important to all of us. the impact of the euro and its stability on the economies of member states which benefit, let me remind you, from a temporary derogation is often no less important, or just as important, as for the euro area countries. that's why we have to make decisions about this together. we must take them, mr president, by the community method, with all the countries. this is because, although the community method does not work very quickly and often breaks down on the particularism of the member countries, the intergovernmental method has built us a euro zone without a common fiscal policy, without a common tax policy. it is the intergovernmental method that has built us an imperfect, or far from perfect, monetary system. the community method, on the other hand, guarantees that if we adopt certain rules, they will apply to all of us, not just the weakest. because today we can ask ourselves, if we had a weak government in germany or in paris, for example, would we be able to change it through outside pressure? or not? thank you very much, sir.
in writing. in the context of the deepening crisis, which europe is experiencing today in particular, the overriding objective should be to take joint action to stabilise european economies and to better coordinate anti-crisis measures. discussions on how to do this effectively are often accompanied by concerns that the introduction of new economic governance rules in the eu could lead to a two-speed union. they are not without foundation, but the fact is that we already have two communities: the one that brings together the countries with the common currency, the euro, and the more political one, made up of all 27 member states. it is clear to me that countries with a single currency must have the instruments to conduct a common fiscal and monetary policy, and the means to enforce discipline in both areas. accession to the euro area entails shared responsibility for the single currency. it is therefore clear to me that membership of the euro area must be linked to acceptance of the rules of common economic governance. for your own good and for the good of all.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? this is a real celebration of cinema, this report is a complement to the lux prize and, in a time of crisis, an important signal for european cinema. the european cinema has been waiting for this report for almost 10 years and i want to tell you that its adoption will accelerate the work on the full digitisation of european film, but also on increasing the chances of europeans having access to european film. i urge you to vote and thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation! (laughter) (applause)
the joint assembly of representatives of the european parliament and selected african, caribbean and pacific states is the only regular international body to date working to promote north-south interdependence. it plays a particular role by monitoring the negotiations on economic partnership agreements. i therefore see the need for the commission to provide the acp parliaments with all the information available and to assist them in exercising democratic control. the aim of maintaining the freedom and independence of the media is of paramount importance in order to ensure pluralism and participation in political life of representatives of the democratic opposition and minorities. a good solution could be to start an exchange of views with the local authorities in kinshasa on the situation in the country. i also hope that the misunderstanding of the absence of a council representative from the question time will not be repeated in the future, which puts european diplomacy in a bad light. i voted for the report.
i supported the report because i believe that we should deal with rail transport more often and more specifically in the european parliament. the situation is that the railway system in europe is not improving. it is worth noting that in the last ten years alone, the share of rail freight in europe has fallen to 10%, while the share of road freight has already exceeded 45%. unfortunately, european rail services continue to face many obstacles: financial, technical, legal and, unfortunately, political. i think we have a chance to make progress in two areas. the first concerns the increase in rail transport funding, the second the effective elimination of those disparities which exist between the various countries. this report provides an opportunity. thank you, sir.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the resolution (10303/1/2011 – c7-0236/2011 – 2010/0044(cod)) to establish a european union action for the european heritage label. the aim of the proposal is to strengthen european citizens’ sense of belonging to the european union, based on shared elements of history and heritage, as well as an appreciation of diversity, and to strengthen intercultural dialogue. i feel that this is imperative to developing a type of ‘european culture’ where we can all work together and live together and respect and understand our fellow citizen’s views and beliefs. in addition, this legislation provides for the foundation in which we can continue our christian democratic base and continue to build upon it. as we move forward and accept new member states we will continue to grow, not only as a union but more importantly as europeans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, in particular with the amendment adopted on the exclusion of lhs lines. the directive offers an opportunity to accelerate the process of creating a european railway area, increasing the chance for rail transport to become more competitive in the market for transport between member states. the directive strengthens the union approach and method in policy-making and enforcement of common rules within the eu railway sector. recognition for the rapporteur and coordinators in the political groups. i hope that the council will support parliament's position.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on her efficient work on the document on the transformation of the so-called first railway package (the european parliament and council directive on the creation of a single european railway area). of course, in the final vote, i voted for the document. i am pleased that parliament has adopted amendment no 135, which i tabled with mr bogdan marcinkiewicz and 40 other members from different countries and political groups. i believe that the support we have received today is a clear signal to the council and the commission that the issue of the exclusion contained in amendment 135 is a priority for the european parliament and that this fact will be taken into account in the further development of the document.
in writing. the eu is responsible for only 11% of the world's co2 emissions. over the last dozen years, we've been reducing our greenhouse gas emissions every year while expanding our renewable energy sector. the costs of such changes are enormous for us, as scientists from the e. kwiatkowski institute have calculated. in poland alone, a 20% reduction in emissions means a loss of about 5% of jobs in heavy industry and energy caused by the relocation or closure of plants. we didn't look to other international actors when we decided on the next limits, whereas in recent years the us, china, india and brazil have not only not reduced their emissions, but they've actually increased them. now it's finally time to realize that even if europe, hypothetically, stopped emitting greenhouse gases, it still wouldn't make a difference to the world's climate. today, the warming process can only stop a 50% decline in emissions in china and india. i cannot understand the wording of this resolution that encourages an increase in the emission limit above 20%. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? cinema and film production are important industries, also in europe. but for each country, they are first and foremost a part of its culture and a tool for creating it. it is also a product that is inextricably linked to technological progress in its present form, which is reduced to digitisation. support for the european film industry, while desirable in itself, cannot be achieved in isolation from the cultural heritage of the sector on a global scale. the report proposes solutions which openly discriminate against, for example, american cinemas, favouring measures which clearly favour european cinemas. the commission notes that the aid granted to the cinema operators is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary. i have reservations about the above regulations and have therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! digital cinema has already gained great popularity in the united states, and now demand for similar projects is also growing in europe, where about one third more films are produced than in the us. digital equipment for the broadcast of films is around 25-30% cheaper than the previous generation models and will therefore be more accessible to a larger number of cinemas and thus to a wider audience. the investment in digital cinemas also supports the film industry through both better distribution and the quality of the projection of images and sound. i am pleased that the funds for the modernisation of cinemas come from the cohesion fund, which not only promotes our european film heritage but also supports an important sector of the economy. culture is no longer just 'a higher need', but an industry that is contributing more and more to the community's gdp and creating more and more jobs. in this respect, too, new cinemas contribute to the revitalization of urban areas and, as a result, to the improvement of the quality of life of the inhabitants. the transition from the analogue to the digital era can also ensure a wider participation in the cultural life of the citizens of a united europe. the digitisation of cinemas, like libraries and archives, will provide easier access to shared cultural assets.
in writing. − the european parliament's report on european cinema in the digital age is a clear call for the rapid digitisation of cinemas in the european union. the european film industry faces many challenges related to the digital transformation of film production, distribution and broadcasting. digitization is inevitable and necessary - it will reduce the cost of producing and distributing films. it will thus strengthen the potential of the european film sector. we must therefore increase financial support to the european film industry so that it can adapt to the challenges of the present. the continuation of the media programme, the creation of an effective financial support system are our objectives for the near future. investing in culture shapes the european identity. culture is at the heart of european values. the report stresses the need for film education in schools to help young people use media effectively and function in european society. all eu citizens have the right to participate in cultural life. that is why i voted for the report.
welcome back to the afternoon session. before the start of the proceedings, we will have a legislative procedure to sign the legislative act. this is always the case when it is the ordinary legislative procedure the signature is given by the president of the european parliament and the representative of the presidency representing the council. this time, what we're signing is extremely important, it's about economic governance. we also discussed this this morning and i'm sure we'll discuss it many times. these are crucial decisions for the future of europe. the council will be represented by mr wiesław szczuka, the minister for foreign affairs, and the european commission by mr rehn, the vice-president, and we are grateful to the commissioner for his presence. i would now like to read a declaration which is important when signing this act because it implies the fulfillment of all the provisions of what we have agreed together during the negotiations. i will read it in english because i do not have a translation, and the point is that it should sound exactly as the european parliament would like to see such statements. as the president of the european parliament signing this law today, i would like to underline that the commission's declaration attached to the parliament's resolution of 28 september on the 'six pack' stated that 'macroeconomic surveillance covers countries with current account deficits and surpluses with appropriate differentiation as regards the urgency of policy responses and the type of corrective actions required'. this declaration paved the way for a final agreement on the six pack, so we can trust the commission to remain fully committed to it. any conclusions of the council cannot limit the legal rights of the commission in this respect, including the ecofin council conclusions of 8 november on excessive surpluses. the 'comply-or-explain' principle is now integrated in the preventive and corrective arm of the stability and growth pact. from now on, the council must either follow the commission's recommendations or explain itself in public in the european parliament.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? it is with great pleasure and satisfaction that i sign today, on behalf of the council of the european union, the legislative acts strengthening economic governance in the european union. on behalf of the polish presidency, i would like to thank all those who contributed to the successful conclusion of the negotiations, which i believe should also be considered a success of the community method. this was made possible by the active involvement of the european parliament, the european commission and all member states. i would like to thank all the negotiators in particular the chairman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the rapporteurs, and commissioner olli rehn and his colleagues from the european commission. the important contributions of the predecessors of the polish presidency, namely the hungarian and belgian presidencies, also deserve special mention. i believe that the implementation of this package of new regulations will be an important step towards strengthening not only european economic governance but also the process of integration within the european union itself. by adopting these acts, we have shown that the european union is capable of acting quickly, efficiently, in solidarity and unity. while the new regulations are part of the response to the economic and financial crisis, their implementation should also serve to ensure the long-term economic stability of all member states.
minister szczuka, thank you for your remarks. you were giving your remarks on behalf of the polish presidency and also on behalf of the council. i would like to invite you to sign our legislative package. i would also like to invite the chair, ms sharon bowles, and the rapporteurs, ms corien wortmann-kool, elisa ferreira, sylvie goulard, carl haglund, vicky ford, diogo feio, and of course the vice-president of the european commission, mr olli rehn. we will meet around the table to sign the document.
if we talk about relations with the united states today, the word crisis comes up again. this is unprecedented in eu-us relations and in europe's historical relationship with the us, when so much depends on economic cooperation. but i think that when we talk about the crisis and we want to answer the question of the source of the crisis, we have to go back to what is most important, to the common roots, the values of republicanism, economics and free markets. and that's something that we've been sorely lacking in recent years, because there's been a lack of trust between the eu and the us. let's face it: without breaking through the political weakness that was to change under democratic administration in the united states, we will not overcome this crisis together, but we will bring a whole host of other troubles to many, many places in the world. that's why i'm calling for a new openness, a new way of thinking about our relationship with the united states. this also applies to the american administration, the removal of the many barriers you mentioned here and the abolition of visas for certain european countries. i say this as a pole from a country that, although it has good relations with the united states, still requires visas. this is a subject that needs to be addressed. i'm sure other members will be talking about it. but today it is not enough to talk about the crisis in economic terms, we must say that we must overcome the political crisis in relations with the united states.
madam president! the united states is the european union's most important strategic partner, both politically and economically. close cooperation with the united states is a prerequisite for effectively addressing today's challenges, such as combating the economic crisis, ensuring stability, energy security and combating terrorism. the attempt to build up our own armed forces on the basis of the lisbon treaty must not undermine real cooperation within nato. there are, of course, a few technical matters to be settled with the united states during the upcoming summit. once again, the issue of visas is back, and the de facto discrimination of four eu member states by the united states in visa policy, including poland. there is no justification at this time for a visa requirement for nationals of these countries. i therefore call again for this matter to be taken up again at the next summit.
the eu and the us share a special relationship based on shared values and a history of cooperation in many areas, from the economy to security. the union should continue to be committed to building an effective and good partnership with the us, and the eu-us dialogue should aim at even greater cooperation and coordination on regional and global issues, especially in the field of promoting respect for democracy and human rights. however, the union should also use its relations with our partners to draw attention to issues that are important from the point of view of some member states. citizens of four european union countries, including poland, still have to apply for a visa to enter the united states. i would like to see this matter raised at the forthcoming summit. the motion for a resolution on which we are voting tomorrow also calls on the eu and the us to do everything in their power to restore direct peace talks between israel and palestine, because that is the only way to achieve lasting peace in the middle east. i hope that this matter will also be discussed properly with the american administration. thank you, sir.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. as you can see, no one should be persuaded of the importance of the us-eu relationship. all speakers stressed that it covers economic, trade, security and foreign policy issues. as vice chairman of the security and defense subcommittee, i'd like to focus on security matters. today, as the resolution states, the best guarantee of security is the development of stable, democratic states, and in this regard, cooperation between the united states, the member states of the european union and the institutions of the european union must be ensured. we all need to spend more time working together, sharing information, and not duplicating our efforts at times. this is also true of development aid. the united states and the european union together provide 80% of the world's development aid. it takes coordination and collaboration to -- as i say -- save money and spend it more efficiently. as a pole, i cannot help but join the voices of my colleagues who speak of the issue that is still painful for the four countries, namely the issue of visa-free travel or, more precisely, the lack of visa-free travel. this is incomprehensible and, as my colleagues have said, there is no rational argument to continue to impede visa-free travel for citizens of four european union countries.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i welcome the commission's communication on the need to maintain the openness and neutrality of the internet as a major driver of innovation. at the same time, a high quality of online services should be ensured, based on intellectual property rights, freedom of expression and freedom of economic activity. the speed and security of data transmission and the quality of those services are inextricably linked to internet access. the difference between the declared and actual connection speed is a constant problem. the consumer must therefore be able to make a decision on the choice of service provider on the basis of clear principles and to switch to the provider that best suits his preferences. it is therefore necessary for the commission to publish guidelines on the right to change operators. i also look forward to the commission initiating a broad discussion forum on the future of the internet in the union and informing parliament on the current management of information flows, the interconnection market and network congestion.
madam president! the internet, like many aspects of life, has its dangers, and those who speak today are aware of that. this applies to both intellectual property and other types of offences. the fundamental thing is to realize what the internet is today, to look around the world. the internet is now a place of equality, the internet is now a place of real struggle for democracy. the internet is changing the world, changing north africa, before our eyes - let's not forget that. so these fundamental things - free, unfettered access to high-quality internet, so that the internet - what should be a factor of equality of opportunity - does not become a new cause of social divisions, so that what should be an impulse for democratization does not lead to a kind of stifling of freedom. so today, it's very clear that the choice of content, of the use of the internet, should always and only be on the recipient's side.
in writing. internet service providers are service companies, just like water and gas suppliers. companies like this shouldn't tell me that the water in the kitchen will run faster than the water in the bathroom, or that the light in the bedroom will be half as bright as the light in the hallway. the supplier is responsible for the operation of the pipes and cables, and the consumer is responsible for deciding whether to use them. the content of the internet should be equitable and equally accessible. the role of the supplier here is to impose a financial burden on the user in a manner appropriate to the way in which he has used the services. if the supplier wants to offer an unlimited tariff plan and the consumer is willing to pay for it, then everything is fine. however, this unlimited plan must actually have no limitations. we all know that from time to time, we may experience a power outage or a water outage as a result of an accident or maintenance. sometimes the internet is slower than usual. but this should be the exception, not the rule. internet services and content security must be unbreakable. just as it is in europe, we cannot afford two-speed internet.
mr. chairman, please! in the summer of that year, the council approved the european union's framework for national roma integration strategies, with a mandate for member states to develop their strategies by the end of 2011. the adoption of this document is undoubtedly a major step towards ending the long-standing discrimination against roma in europe. however, the document lacks specific objectives and measures to counter anti-gypsyism. this reluctance in some member states has taken on a disturbing dimension of persecution of members of this ethnic group. i would like to ask the fundamental rights agency to prepare a new, updated report on the situation of roma in the european union, together with conclusions and proposals. we have a rather curious situation in our parliament: every thursday we debate the human rights situation in the world. there is no permanent forum for discussing cases of violation of such rights in the member states of the european union. the functioning of the fundamental rights agency in vienna should be analysed in this respect. this agency should provide as soon as possible an analysis of the violation of minority rights in the member states. this is not only the case for roma, but also for poles in lithuania and hungary.
in writing. i would like to refer with full appreciation to the commission's guidelines on the development of national roma integration strategies. i think it is worth putting more emphasis on the member states and making changes in this area. discrimination against roma is still evident, and the lack of implementation of existing legislation is one reason for the low living standards of roma communities. all citizens of the european union should have equal access to education, health care, employment. by providing adequate socialisation, education for the youngest and support for cultural identity, poverty and other problems that are common among roma today can be prevented in the future. i therefore support the continuation of the work and all new initiatives aimed at eliminating discrimination against this community in the countries of the european union.
mr president, i can only agree with my colleagues from all political parties that have spoken before me, and i also agree with my friend diana wallis that many of our friends and many european consumers are going to get a nasty shock when they go shopping for christmas. electronic books, which are growing in popularity thanks to readers such as – maybe i should not enumerate them – kindle, ipads, etc. are subject to a much higher vat rate than their paper cousins (which we love, i agree with you, diana). the so-called vat gap – the difference between the reduced vat rate applied to books in 25 of 27 member states and the standard vat rate to which e-books are subject – is stifling the development of the digital single market. it is going in the opposite direction to what we are striving for. the problem is very simple. our eu law is out of date. there is no reason why a difference in vat rate should be applied to the same product simply due to the means of its delivery. it has been said many times that in europe e-commerce and other digital services lag behind those in many other parts of the world. this blocks the great potential for their growth. cultural goods should be made as widely available as possible, and we must support the digitalisation of books. i fully agree with my colleagues. e-books are a new way of reading, maybe especially for the young generation, and we must care about them and give them a chance. this vat rate reduces the incentive to publishers to further develop the area and for consumers to buy e-books. this will cause us to read less – and we care about our european culture. so i am sure that, if the european commission puts forward a reasonable proposal to have the same vat rate for paper products and digitalised products, we will all support you with great joy.
member of the commission. − madam president, as you know, the eu stands in the strong tradition of being a staunch supporter of the international criminal court. the commission views an effective court as an indispensable instrument of the international community to combat impunity and to promote a law-based international order. the icc will remain an important priority for the eu in the years to come. it is also a personal commitment of the vice-president/high representative. in this context, the commission very much welcomes the report drafted by the honourable member, mr kreissl-dörfler. the active engagement of the european parliament on this important human rights and international justice topic is crucial. the commission very much welcomes parliament’s strong interest on icc-related issues. as the report rightly points out, eu action is currently very much focussed on the implementation of the four pledges it made at the icc review conference in kampala. in this respect, it is particularly good to see that the updating and reviewing of the eu instruments in support of the court are in full motion, with the new council decision on the icc adopted on 21 march including a reviewed eu action plan. it is also in the context of the kampala pledges that the eu has committed to produce a practical guide book on how to better integrate the fight against the most serious crimes into relevant eu rule of law and development programmes based on existing good practices, the so-called complementarity tool kit. on this basis, the eu will continue to support the icc both politically and diplomatically as well as logistically and financially. as a concrete example of the political support, the european parliament report rightly mentions the eu’s engagement towards the universality of the rome statute and promoting a better understanding of the icc’s mandate. the eu continues to make every effort to further this process with third states, in particular during its regular human rights dialogues with some 40 countries through systematic demarche campaigns worldwide, through the organisation of dedicated local or regional seminars, through the systematic inclusion of an icc clause in agreements with third countries, and through financial support to civil society organisations lobbying for the universality of the rome statute. when it comes to the concrete steps towards ratifying and implementing the rome statute and related instruments, it is of course parliamentarians who play a key role, considering their prerogative as law and policymakers. that is why the vice-president/high representative, the commission and their services closely cooperate with the members of the european parliament and with parliamentarians from around the world in the common goal of achieving universality of the rome statute and ensuring the putting in place of adequate implementing legislation. summing up, the commission very much welcomes the report and feels encouraged to further consolidate and intensify the strong policy support to the icc, jointly with the european parliament.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. this is a report which, among the many reports adopted by the european parliament, is, in my view, of the utmost importance. it is of great importance not only to us - to the european union, to the european institutions, to the member states - but above all it is of great importance to the georgian state, to the georgian people, who attach great hopes to this report and to the future of cooperation within the european union, perhaps someday as a member of the european union. this is a report which deals with the strict sense of the association agreement and what is happening in the negotiations between the european union negotiating team and the georgian state negotiating team. but of course this report, which i have presented to the house, cannot but also address the difficult issues that are linked to the functioning of the georgian state today and to the problems that have arisen from the conflict in 2008 with the russian federation. i am very pleased that this report, as it has been presented, has received very broad political support in the committee on foreign affairs. in the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament, 35 members voted in favour of this version, which will more or less be adopted - i hope it will be adopted - no one voted against, one abstained, which means that for me as rapporteur, all the main political forces of the european parliament, all the political groups in the committee on foreign affairs supported this version of the report. this is a report that has already been called in the media a project of course a very bold project. this is a project which we as members of the european parliament - i can already speak here on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, because it has adopted it - call certain things by their right name. i am thinking here of the difficult situation of the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia, which of course the russian federation recognises as independent states (although in our opinion - i can certainly say this to the foreign affairs committee today, but i hope also to the whole parliament tomorrow), our report calls on the russian federation to respect international law. we consider that the situation in which thousands of russian soldiers are being held, in our opinion, in violation of international law and also in violation of the agreements signed in 2008 between russia and georgia, but in a sense also initiated by president sarkozy, who represented the presidency of the european union at that time, is something that did not exist today in the nomenclature of the european commission, but already exists in the nomenclature of the european parliament. we have already adopted the term 'occupation' in the black sea strategy document a few months ago. we believe that what is happening in abkhazia and south ossetia should unfortunately be considered an occupation. these territories, which we consider to be an integral part of georgia, are occupied territories. this is the most important political fact to emerge from this report. there are many other things, which the commissioner is probably aware of, concerning the deep free trade agreement, which we would like to see implemented as soon as possible, but, of course, i cannot go on and expand on these issues because of the passage of time.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a job well done. the integrated maritime policy is an action that concerns many areas of the european union's economy. it is also a cultural heritage area and a part of the social consciousness. the report is of such importance that it needs special attention from the european commission. the lack of clear and comprehensive regulations on the maritime economy in the european union is one of the reasons for the collapse of the industry. you have to ask yourself: why are most of the ships built outside the european union? why do companies register their vessels outside the eu? why is it that the job of a sailor or a fisherman is so completely unattractive? there are many more questions to be answered if we are to take the maritime economy seriously. in the absence of good and friendly law, another industry will be lost to the far eastern countries that have created a favorable environment for the development of the maritime industry. this is a blow to the innovation economy, because the maritime industry is the source of innovation, and that is the european union's motto. in my country, poland, the european commission's decision has led the government to close down the shipbuilding industry, leaving no alternative, and the construction of the nordstream gas pipeline, in contravention of international conventions, has completely blocked the development of polish ports. as a member of parliament and a former seafarer, i call on the commission to take a responsible approach to the problem of the maritime economy.
ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank the rapporteur for the enormous amount of work he has put into producing such a great report. in discussing the future of maritime policy, its importance for the european economy and its competitiveness should be underlined. to realise the potential of blue growth, it is necessary to move away from sectoral thinking, to innovate and to make maritime professions more attractive, and to increase the adaptability and mobility of personnel. in addition, to build on the achievements of the preparatory actions and pilot projects that were funded until 2010, it is urgently necessary to establish a programme that will allow the smooth development of the integrated maritime policy, the implementation of instruments such as cise and the promotion of cross-sectoral platforms and cooperation networks. i would also like to thank the polish presidency for its commitment and consistent work and express the hope that successive presidencies will continue to work towards the development of an integrated maritime policy. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to thank mrs isabella lövin for her excellent report on the elimination of unfair, illegal fishing. given the state of the seas and oceans, this report is crucial for the future of the common fisheries policy. it is vital that the standards that are in place in the european union become the standards that are in place around the world. the eu is the largest importer of fishery products, and this gives us the right to implement the requirements and rules to eliminate illegal fishing. the common fisheries policy is extremely demanding for the european fisheries sector. illegal fishing is the darkest element of unfair competition, which is degrading the environment and destroying european fisheries. in approving the report, it is also worth mentioning that we must support it together, not only in the european commission but also in all the committees of parliament. thank you very much. thank you.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers. let me start by giving you some clarification on recreational fisheries. recreational fisheries is not, i repeat not, an eu competence. so the european commission is not responsible, and the national governments have to tackle all these problems. so please, do not come back again and again here to recreational fisheries. the commission’s only responsibility is to ensure, when we are talking about recreational fisheries, that the product cannot be sold. everything else comes under the competence of national governments. let me now turn to our main point. this report was broadly supported and deserves it, because it is a good report, is well-balanced and also refers to all the relevant issues. however, i would like to answer some of your remarks and would mainly like to raise two points. i would like to try to convince you that we are improving, and i would like to convey to you this positive message. we have done a lot since this iuu regulation was put in force. we have achieved much and sometimes we have solved some problems. that has to be recognised. for example, you have mentioned our obligation to be responsible in our waters. well, we have been responsible. the commission is doing its job. i should mention the last case of the use of drift nets in the mediterranean. the national governments have been pushed and been obliged to take all the necessary measures, and we are going further on this case. secondly, mr romeva rueda referred to a spanish enterprise. well, i can tell you that we have had some news today: the owner of that enterprise himself was sanctioned by a court in las palmas, and now he is facing a prison sentence because of fishing illegally in the antarctic. so we are improving here, and not only on paper as somebody said. regarding international cooperation, we have done much in the last year. let me just give you some figures. to date, the commission has finalised ten evaluation missions to panama, belize, sri lanka, mauritania, thailand, china, guinea-conakry, senegal, korea and indonesia. so we have done a lot of work. referring to other countries and our cooperation, i would like also to mention that since july 2011 we have gone through 120 procedures of requests to flag states because their vessels have fished illegally. up to now, the flag states concerned have put sanctions on 19 vessels. we are talking about belize, china – 13 vessels were punished by the chinese authorities themselves – the comoros, guinea and others. we are doing a lot, bearing in mind our limited resources, but i do agree that we have to do more and i really rely on you in order to take that exercise further.
in writing. the report by ms lövin shows how serious the problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is. to understand this, it is enough to compare the 6.4 million tonnes of fish caught by the european union countries in a year with the estimated, i stress, bottom forks of illegal fishing, which is worth 11 million tonnes a year, almost twice the annual catch of the entire european union. in my view, eu countries should not only fight against iuu but also take practical preventive measures, including harmonising legislation to the extent that enforcement bodies can effectively act to eliminate iuu. almost half of the eu population is directly or indirectly linked to fishing in general, economically or socially, and improving the situation in this sector would be a major catalyst for economic growth. cooperation with non-eu countries is an important aspect of fisheries support. despite the eu's strong position in the fisheries sector, i believe that cooperation with countries such as japan, china and the united states is very important for the effective implementation of the regulation. the iuu phenomenon knows no borders and should be controlled and then eliminated in accordance with the theme of this report, i.e. international cooperation worldwide.
i wanted to thank everyone, including you, who signed this statement. this is, i believe, a very important decision of the european parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the other institutions that have contributed to this report. i would like to say that this is a very important report. it is not only important for us the european parliament but it just so happens that this is the report that the government, the parliament and the proud georgian people have been waiting for. (laughter)
one of the community's founding treaties was the treaty establishing euratom. today, despite the tragic consequences of the japanese disaster, it is important to continue research involving developments in the field of nuclear energy, especially in the field of nuclear fission safety. the nuclear installations in the member states must meet the highest international standards. it is therefore necessary to increase the allocation of funds for this purpose. in the field of resource efficiency, as well as the applications of nuclear technology in other industries and medicine, euratom-funded research projects play a key role also in relation to the europe 2020 and energy 2020 objectives. joint european research and training promotes competitiveness, economic growth and professional development. the creation of a new sector based on modern technologies will help to increase the rate of growth and create new jobs in many sectors of the economy, which is why i support the resolution.
in supporting this resolution, i would like to express my appreciation for the effective actions of the united states and nato as a whole in libya. at the same time, i call for full support for the democratization process in this country. our engagement in north africa is essential to ensure that the gains of democratic transition are sustained. i also look forward to the proposal to stabilise the increasingly tense situation surrounding iran's nuclear programme, which requires urgent, coordinated action. i also expect concrete solutions to the debt crisis. the huge growth potential of both partners, with unfettered trade, can help reduce the likelihood of recession. the agreement on the promotion of interoperable navigation systems is a good example of the mutual benefits that come from deeper cooperation. as the representative of poland in this chamber, i cannot accept discrimination against my country in the visa issue. i therefore call for a decisive action by the eu diplomacy to abolish the visa requirement for all community citizens.
i am very pleased that our parliament has so clearly accepted the recommendations on the negotiations on the association between the european union and georgia. this underlines very strongly that georgia is a country that has a very clearly defined european perspective. as vice-chair of the subcommittee on human rights, i also assess that georgia is making progress in the protection of human rights. but there are still things that need to be addressed here. this is unfortunately the case with the repeated attacks on lawyers defending human rights in georgia. more constructive dialogue between the government and the opposition is also needed, and the opposition must be given access to public media. so we can say that there is progress in terms of democratic reforms, but there is still a lot to be done.
relations with georgia form part of the wider policy towards european neighbours within the eastern partnership. i am voting in favour of the resolution in support of the speedy pace of negotiations, the implementation by the georgian authorities of a number of reforms in various fields and support for the territorial integrity of the state. i welcome the declaration by president mikheil saakashvili that he will not use force to restore control in the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. at the same time, i support the resolution's provisions on the recognition of these regions as occupied territories and calls on russia to revoke its decision to recognise their secession. i call on the russian authorities to guarantee the eu observer mission full and unrestricted access to these territories. it is in the interest of the european union to conclude the negotiations and sign an association agreement as soon as possible, which will provide a comprehensive and far-reaching framework for the further development of relations with georgia in the years ahead.
in writing. − the wise and prudent use of marine resources will ensure that they are sufficient for future generations. a modern strategy is therefore needed and research should be funded to minimise the damage caused by the exploitation of marine resources. the creation of a new maritime policy must take account of human activities both on land and on water. investments in research would be used to make better use of and modernise existing economic sectors such as tourism, trade, transport, manufacturing and port services, with the least possible damage to biodiversity.
in writing. − the open nature of the internet is an important driver of global competitiveness, growth and innovation. the free flow of knowledge, access to information and especially service applications have a huge impact on consumer society and business. the european parliament has already made a political commitment to net neutrality by adopting a report on this issue by mep herbert reul on 20 october. in the text adopted today, while reaffirming our commitment, we also stress the need to respond decisively to attempts by certain telecommunications operators or other authorities to restrict access to the internet. while welcoming the commission's request to berec the eu telecoms regulator to investigate possible cases of anti-neutrality, i also join the calls for the european commission to come forward with proposals for regulating the openness of the internet and net neutrality as soon as possible. we must take all measures to ensure the free flow of information for all internet users.
in writing. − georgia is one of the five countries actively participating in the eastern partnership programme. it is also a country that has been implementing with great determination and success a number of democratic reforms, especially in the areas of fighting corruption, reforming the judiciary and liberalising the economy, with a strong emphasis on facilitating business. this process was not stopped by the entry of russian troops into georgia, nor by the de facto occupation of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. the georgian authorities were able to adopt their own peaceful strategy on the occupied territories and a unilateral commitment to non-use of force in this regard. moreover, georgia despite not having direct diplomatic relations with russia concluded negotiations on the latter's accession to the world trade organisation without blocking access. georgia is an important partner for the european union in the south caucasus region. the recommendations adopted today take this into account and will certainly contribute to the even faster conclusion of the association agreement and the deep trade agreement negotiations. that's why i voted for these recommendations.
in writing. − we call on the eu institutions to open negotiations as soon as possible on a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) agreement with georgia, which will allow georgia to trade freely with eu member states. georgia is one of the most committed partners and has some of the best reform performance among the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. - georgia is the key to the geopolitical puzzle of the caucasus. it is the main route for the transport of gas and oil from the caspian sea to europe and from russia to armenia. it is also a key element in many eu projects: nabucco, agri and the white stream gas pipeline. all the more valuable, then, is the fact that since the rose revolution, the government in tbilisi has been pursuing a path of democratic and free-market transformation, tying its future to the european union and nato. in 2009, these efforts were interrupted by a brutal conflict with russia, which ended with the loss of control over abkhazia and south ossetia. it is sad to see that despite the bloody occupation and thousands of georgian refugees, some european countries quickly accepted the independence of these territories, which was supported by russia. i am therefore pleased that the resolution we are discussing clearly indicates their status. moreover, the recognition of these territories as occupied and the confirmation of georgia's territorial integrity within the pre-2009 borders should be binding on the entire european community. i also hope that her record will be a guide for the high representative's actions and that the withdrawal of russian troops and the return of refugees will be discussed at the next eu-russia meeting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on gender mainstreaming in the european parliament. as a champion of gender equality with a well-functioning committee on women's rights and gender equality, parliament should set an example in promoting gender equality in its institutions and administrative structure. i am pleased to see that this is already reflected in the work of many parliamentary committees. we still need to make this practice not just a positive exception but the normal procedure. in this respect, i also support the dual chairmanship of the political groups, the equal distribution of the sexes in the ep's governing bodies and at the highest levels of the parliamentary administration. i would point in particular to paragraph 10 of the resolution adopted, in which the ep calls on the commission to address gender inequalities in a more consistent and systematic way in the design and implementation of all policy strategies and to give them priority. gender equality should be at the heart of all policy strategies and should be consistently pursued. despite the existing good legal framework, large disparities in gender equality in the european union persist, from pay to participation in management. in every area of life, women are divided by a gap with men. the commission should strictly enforce compliance with the relevant provisions.
in writing. - the report estimates that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing amounts to 1126 million tonnes of fish each year. in the light of the dwindling resources of the seas and oceans, this is a very worrying figure, posing a threat not only to the economy but also to the environment and global food security. as the european union, we are trying to counter these effects by rebuilding depleted stocks and ensuring sustainable control of our fisheries through fisheries law enforcement, transnational cooperation, effective controls, transparency and access to information. we must also set a good example for third countries and encourage them to take effective action against harmful practices.
in writing. − i was born and raised on the coast and even now spend a large part of my life within sight and smell of the sea. those who make their living in difficult and dangerous conditions on the ocean waves cannot but be close to my heart, and i am keen for european solidarity to extend far beyond the borders of the union. nevertheless, i am concerned by the subtle assumptions present in the language of the motion. i remind colleagues and the commission that we are in a time of economic crisis, where tax revenues and thus public resources are severely stretched. i would remind colleagues of the need for budgetary discipline and the desirability of a critical eye in all that we do. i do not doubt the good intentions of the motion, but i consider it irresponsible of colleagues to call for an increase in spending without identifying from where the resources should come.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? persecution of opposition, as well as repression of so-called religious crimes, demands our firm and condemnatory response. the most recent case of actress marzieh vafamehr, who was sentenced to one year in prison and 90 lashes for participating in a film that showed the limitations of artists' freedom, is a sensation. the verdict is all the more absurd because the exact cause of the charge was not stated, nor was the reasoning for the verdict presented. the absolute priority on which the countries of the union should base their economic relations with iran must be the release of prisoners of conscience, including the apostate pastor youcef nadarkhani, who is on death row. i therefore call on the council to stop european companies from facilitating the repression of iranian citizens and to consider pressing through coordinated sanctions. only in this way will it be possible to persuade the authorities in tehran to cooperate with the un and allow the special envoy unfettered control in all parts of the country.
we have repeatedly called on the iranian authorities in this house to respect fundamental human rights and to refrain from repressing their own people - both those who actively oppose the regime and human rights defenders, lawyers, journalists and filmmakers, as well as those who are persecuted for their beliefs. unfortunately, so far, it has produced only negligible results. today, therefore, we must use all available means, in addition to verbal declarations, to put pressure on the iranian regime to respect human rights and to punish those responsible for violating them. the list of authorities whose bank accounts have been frozen and whose entry into the european union has been banned should include all those known to be involved in the proceedings. the current economic sanctions must also be carefully reviewed and adjusted to ensure that no items and devices are brought into iran from europe that will enable the iranian authorities to monitor and harass its citizens and unfortunately this is happening now. thank you, sir.
the regime screws up when it knows it's either weakening or it has a sense of total impunity. maybe it's the latter case, maybe the authorities in tehran feel that no one from outside - from the eu, from america - is able to publicly chastise them and influence their decisions. it's a bigger responsibility for us. i absolutely agree that we must avoid hypocrisy and double standards at all costs. if the european union demands respect for human rights, including in iran, then we cannot support, finance, offer grants to companies that support the regime in tehran. i think we need to be very transparent and very clear about this. let us remember one more thing: we as the european parliament cannot do everything, but we should feel that we have done everything in our power to save as many innocent people as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the high representative and the commission as a whole, i welcome this resolution. i would like to stress that the human rights situation in the islamic republic of iran is dreadful and is deteriorating. abuses committed by the iranian authorities are harming more and more individuals and organisations and worsening the climate of fear and suspicion. human rights defenders, lawyers, political leaders, students and journalists are harassed, imprisoned, sometimes tortured. religious minorities, homosexuals, women’s activists, artists and film-makers are also targeted. iran continues to ignore its international obligations and its people have nowhere to turn. frequent arrests of human rights defenders and lawyers, the interruptions of internet and the interceptions of mobile phone communications, the situation of religious minorities, the continued house arrest of political leaders and the extremely high number of executions are sad and striking illustrations of this trend. a lot of you referred to some special cases, so let me also give you some information. referring to the christian pastor, youcef nadarkhani, we are on the same line as parliament. iran must live up to its international human rights obligations, also on freedom of religion. the high representative has publicly called on iran to release mr nadarkhani and drop the apostasy charges against him, and is following this case closely. we are also on your side and have condemned publicly the detention and sentencing of prominent film-makers and artists you have referred to: jafar panahi and mrs vafamehr. we welcome the release of mrs vafamehr, but remain very concerned at the targeting of the artistic community which threatens the expression of artistic freedom. we agree with your call on iran to put a moratorium on the death penalty and to help all pending cases. an issue of particular concern is the execution of juvenile offenders, as happened last september. this is really appalling. the european union is therefore actively working on trying to improve the human rights situation in iran. let me give you some examples of our actions. we use public diplomacy: the impressive number of public statements this year on human rights in iran reflects the gravity of the situation. nothing more or less than that. in order to reach out to an iranian public, the statements are translated into farsi and posted on the web with alerts from the high representative via twitter. in teheran and in brussels, eu services continue to demarche iran on human rights cases, seeking information and conveying our messages strongly. the united nations’ general assembly will this year again consider a resolution on human rights in iran, which enjoys full eu backing. we also want access to iran for the united nations special rapporteur, dr shaheed, whose mandate was created at our initiative. in april and in october this year, eu foreign ministers adopted the list of 61 iranian individuals responsible for great human rights violations. so we are not going against the iranian people, we are going against iranian individuals. their assets in the eu are frozen and they cannot travel here. in parallel to the sanctions, we have let iran know that we are open for contacts on human rights. let me finish by saying that there is unfortunately no country in the world that receives as much attention on human rights from the eu as iran does. this house should have no doubt about our determination to do what we can to promote and protect human rights in iran. i know the european parliament shares this extreme concern and i thank you for that.
in writing. the european union respects the autonomy of third countries, but cannot turn a blind eye to such pressing issues as the use of the death penalty. iran has one of the highest execution rates of any country. the activities of many ngos have documented countless cases of human rights violations by the iranian authorities. the basic rights of every human being are not respected in iran. moreover, according to the un, the scale of executions is even greater than official figures indicate, since many executions are carried out in secret. recent arrests and death sentences have mainly concerned human rights defenders publicly demonstrating their beliefs and political opponents of the authorities. the iranian regime has continuously created an atmosphere of intimidation, and the citizens' anxiety is exacerbated by the constant use of violence, arrests and harassment by the courts. as representatives of the european community, we should speak up for those who are denied their rights. we should draw the attention of the whole of europe to the problems of those whose rights are constantly violated. the european parliament, as the guardian of human rights, freedom of expression and democracy, should call on the iranian authorities to immediately abolish the death penalty, release those sentenced and respect human rights. only this path can ensure the maintenance and further development of political and economic relations between iran and the european union.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. egypt is a very important country, not only for the region, but, you could say, for the world. it is hard to ignore a country of over 70 million people, a country that also has a huge cultural significance in the arab world. hence the hope that egypt will be a shining example of democratic change and will be an example of what we in europe - as neighbors to the arab world - should care about: egypt should be an example of modernity that can function within a democracy in a world steeped in islamic values. we should all be concerned about being able to say that the arab countries, the islamic countries, enjoy the same democratic values that we enjoy in europe. unfortunately, there are increasing signs that what is happening in egypt today is not optimistic. we still have human rights violations - not to mention the issue we discussed here not so long ago, the rights of the coptic christian minority in egypt, which are being violated in a big way. today we're going to be dealing with a specific issue of free speech. i would like to call on the european parliament to send a clear message to the egyptian people and the egyptian authorities: we welcome the changes that are taking place there, but we want them to be changes for the better, not for the worse. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the detention of alai abdel fattah, an egyptian blogger and political activist, is an alarming example of the human rights violations in egypt after mubarak's rule ended. alaa abdel fatah played an important role as a blogger-reporter, reporting in an objective manner on the events that took place during the revolution. on 30 october, fatah was summoned by the military prosecutor, who charged him with inciting and aggravating military officers during the 9 october clashes in cairo. as a civilian, fatah refused to submit to the military tribunal's proceedings and was therefore arrested. fatah's case is not an isolated one. the laws enacted during the state of emergency in egypt give the interim government the tools to detain bloggers, journalists and human rights defenders. since march of this year, military tribunals have convicted over 12,000 civilians. at a crucial moment in egypt's democratic transition, we strongly support the development of a state based on democratic principles and respect for the rights of its citizens: freedom of expression, association, religion or belief. but these rights must also be respected by the provisional government of egypt.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! we're seeing a regression, a retreat, when it comes to human rights in egypt. and this dream, this people's spring, which was supposed to bring standards, respect for human rights, is actually becoming a kind of illusion in front of our eyes. all those who saw a few months ago that it is not enough to remove a dictator, but also to look at who is behind him, and also what kind of people come to power in this country, today can say that they were right. it is a pity that in a country where freedom has been created as a mirage, today this freedom is becoming a commodity in short supply, also in terms of freedom of speech. i say this as a blogger who has been blogging for seven years and i express my solidarity with all those bloggers in arab countries who are suffering for their beliefs.
mr. chairman, please! we are all saddened that the egyptian spring has been followed so quickly by autumn and that human rights violations are taking place there, but what hurts me most is the mass, unfortunately, persecution of christians in egypt and the passivity of the egyptian authorities in this phenomenon. we are often very critical of ourselves, we pass many resolutions when there is even a minor incident against representatives of other religions in europe. we should respond appropriately to the totally unparalleled situations that christians face in various parts of the world, and especially in egypt, where these persecutions are particularly severe. we condemn such persecution and must demand that the egyptian authorities take decisive action to protect christians. religious persecution is barbaric and a country that wants to participate in civilization should not tolerate it.
mr. chairman, please! indeed, this year we are discussing the situation in egypt, each time in the context of the recurring human rights violations there, and the issue of persecuted christians in the country is coming up again. today we are talking about a blogger who criticizes the abuses of the egyptian authorities and who has protested against the use of force by the military on his website. for this activity, he was arrested as were many others. the egyptian constitution guarantees freedom of religion and the right to practice one's religion, but the supreme military council acts as if such laws do not exist. the new egyptian authorities do not respect the rights of christian minorities, they imprison journalists, bloggers, representatives of various organizations that oppose what is happening in egypt, and they also persecute christians very strongly. egypt is a european neighbourhood programme country, receiving significant financial assistance from the european union. today, therefore, the eu authorities must be called upon to make the continued transfer of these funds conditional on a significant improvement in the situation in egypt and to use all available means to influence the supreme military council to bring an end to the persecution of the copts and the violation of human rights in that country. thank you very much. thank you.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 17 november 2011 .
i have a few remarks to make at the beginning of our session. we have a group of human rights defenders from yemen in the european parliament today. we have with us in the gallery mrs. amal basha, mr. ezadin el asbahi and mrs. tawakol karman. ms. tawakol karman is a journalist, politician, chair of the organization 'journalists without chains' and coordinator of the 'yemen revolution youth'. (applause) she is one of three women who will soon be awarded this year's nobel peace prize for fighting for women's safety and women's right to work for peace.
last week i was on an official visit to turkey. i met with the president, i spoke to parliament, and i consulted with civil society. i also spoke with patriarch bartholomew about the situation of christians in that country. the main objective of the visit was to revive the accession negotiations by encouraging the turkish side to find a positive solution, particularly on the cyprus issue, before 1 july 2012, when the turkish presidency of the council begins. i also spoke about the need for reforms related to freedom of speech, women's rights and minorities. i have also been assured of the readiness to begin work on a new constitution. and finally, the news from egypt. as you know, on monday, the first elections were held since the ousting of president mubarak. egyptians want and have the right to participate in the political life of their country. the authorities, political parties, and civil society must work together to ensure that the outcome of this election reflects the will of the egyptian people. morocco also held parliamentary elections last friday. the new parliament will, as we know, have new rights and with them greater responsibilities following the constitutional reforms. the european parliament is ready to cooperate more closely with the moroccan parliament. and of course, this also applies to the egyptian parliament. we regret, however, that no eu election observers were invited to egypt or morocco. it's such a democratic standard, and we expected the representatives of both countries to behave the same. i need not add, because we all know that there are still many hot spots in north africa and the middle east, and that we are watching these regions closely, and sympathetic to the expectations and aspirations of the communities in our southern neighbourhood.
ladies and gentlemen! the final draft agenda, approved by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 137 of parliament's rules of procedure, was distributed. we have consulted the political groups and in accordance with that consultation, with the full support of all the political groups, i present to you the final amendments and the draft agenda: the council adopted a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of article j.3 of the treaty on european union. the two reports by mrs rapkaya on mr uspaskich's requests for immunity will be the subject of a joint debate as the first item after the agenda has been established, and therefore almost immediately. thursday 1 december / brussels monthly meeting the oral question on the european union's global response to hiv will be replaced by a commission statement on the subject. the report by mr rapkaya on mr de magistris' request for immunity will be tabled at the time of the vote. the time allotted for the vote will be extended until 2 p.m. this is a very important point: the time allotted for voting will be extended until 2 p.m. it was an agreement between all the political groups. (the agenda has been agreed)
thank you very much for that. we'd be happy to take advantage of the kind of observations that the colleague has made.
no, no, no. i'm not going to. it could last until 2:00. it starts earlier, but it can take longer because it also involves all the explanations of vote, so it's not just the voting procedure itself, but all the explanations, which usually take about an hour. so just to be clear, anyone can explain themselves if they report it.
sir! sir! what are you doing? it's all in accordance with the rules. we must have a debate, because that is what we have to do if we are to comply with the rules of procedure.
dear colleagues, our voting time is at 12 o’clock as usual and it will probably be one of the first votes. today we have the discussion on the future membership of croatia. thank you for this remark: in the voting we should prepare for a qualified majority vote – if we agree, of course.
i wanted to assure you that the case will be handled positively and there is no fear that all the conditions of the rules will not be met. don't worry about it.
good afternoon once again, dear friends. we are back in the chamber; it was only an exercise. it is very good that we can meet once again. pierwszym punktem porządku dziennego jest wspólna debata nad dwoma sprawozdaniami (a7-0411 i a7-0413/2011) sporządzonymi przez bernharda rapkaya w sprawie wniosku o skorzystanie z immunitetu posła uspaskich. zwracam uwagę, że podczas tej debaty nie będzie procedury pytań z sali. tak zostało to ustalone przez przewodniczących grup politycznych.
sir, my friend! of course, you're right. it's worth explaining calmly. no political group has requested a debate on the immunity of mr de magistris. so this goes straight to a vote, as you said. in the present case, the debate is taking place on the basis of a proposal from the liberal and democratic group in the european parliament. because the liberal group has asked for a debate, that's why we're having it. in the case of mr de magistris, there was no such request. so, as i told you, it goes straight to a vote.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have had the pleasure of being a member of the legal affairs committee of the european parliament for over seven years. during that time, we've handled dozens of cases involving the possible waiver or defense of the mp's immunity. i would like to remind all my colleagues very clearly - because bernhard rapkay has spoken about this, and i want to make it even clearer - that the european parliament is the parliament which stands out among the european parliaments in that it has a very precise framework for dealing with the question of parliamentary immunity. it is expressly stated that parliamentary immunity can be invoked only if the act for which the person is to be brought to justice in his own country is connected with the performance of his mandate as a member of the european parliament. i, while maintaining my full sympathy for mr uspaskich and his activities, including in the european parliament, want to say clearly that after a long debate in the ppe group we have come to the conclusion that our sympathies are one thing and the letter of the law another. we must therefore continue with the line we have been presenting for many years: if the act is not in the least connected with the exercise of the mandate of a member of the european parliament, there is no possibility for the european parliament to defend immunity. bernhard rapkay has outlined the whole story that has already been raised about this case, i just want to remind you once again that the european parliament lifted mr uspaskich's immunity over a year ago. today we can only say whether that decision was right or wrong. the ppe group believes that this decision of parliament should not be changed.
that concludes our discussion. the vote on this matter will take place tomorrow at noon.
another point of discussion, which is very important for all of us, is the preparations for the european council (8-9 december 2011). we all know how important this item is in our debates. it's very important to discuss all the points of view in this case.
madam president, at this critical juncture, with the european union in crisis, let me say the following. first, the problem we are facing is excessive debt and the macroeconomic imbalance of some eurozone member states and some candidates. it is not a problem of the euro as a currency. it is problem of excessive indebtedness and the problem of healthy and unhealthy countries. it is therefore a horizontal problem of the whole union and not of a euro club. therefore the answer should be given at eu level, not at a subgroup level. attempts to organise or institutionalise a small union within the big union are detrimental to european unity and destructive for overall eu architecture, as well as for growth. after the great success of reuniting our continent, we risk dividing, unravelling, undoing reunification and risk starting ‘détricotage’ as the french say, negative spillback, encouraging divergence rather than convergence. candidates, mostly from central and eastern europe, are worried about being excluded and relegated to second-class membership and bound to enter the core union for the second time. a large or small treaty change should be done by all 27 countries – or at least 23: eurozone members and candidates willing and committed. instruments like eurobonds and the ecb’s new role should eventually be open to all of them. in conclusion, we should save the euro in the whole boat of the european union, not only the first-class compartments of the european vessel. cutting the vessel into pieces is not a solution: all of it will sink. we need more community europe and not to go back to two europes.
madam president! i would like to speak on behalf of my constituents and our constituents, the millions of europeans who have been confused and worried for at least two years by the signals coming from the successive summits in brussels. these are mostly citizens who believe in the european project and wish it the best. it is our duty today to present them with a credible way out of the crisis. we need the truth. we have to tell them the truth, we have to communicate with the citizens, with civil society. that is why, after the lisbon treaty, we have been equipped with instruments such as the high representative for foreign affairs, the president of the council of the european union, so that the voice of the european union is heard, so that there are people with whom the idea of a united europe can be associated. i therefore call on the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, to take advantage of this situation and to address a solemn message, a solemn exposé to the citizens of europe, broadcast simultaneously on all the television channels of the member states. let's move on to the next stage of communication. the citizens need an exchange of views, they expect a clear opinion from brussels. i ask minister dowgielewicz, representing the polish presidency, to convey this request to president van rompuy.
it is high time we stopped living under the illusion that the problems of the euro area are limited to countries that have pursued wasteful or irresponsible macro-financial policies. recent events the trouble selling german bonds, the pillar of the european economy have prompted the question, where is the line? recent events have confirmed that no country in europe is safe from the unprecedented panic in financial markets. it is high time for radical and rapid action and we should call on the european council to do so. we hear he's going to deal with the treaty amendments. so my question is, what is the ratification process going to look like? they cannot be carried out by means of a simplified amendment procedure because of the strong interference with the sovereignty of the member states. we must remember that any change requires a referendum in some countries. how, for example, is the council going to convince the irish public that the proposed changes are in their interest and not in the interest of the international banks? it is certainly time for radical decisions and unconventional ideas to ensure financial stability. you can't deny or reject anything in advance. any solution that can lead to a stronger europe of 27 should be implemented.
(...) and financial institutions are losing patience. in the past, major decisions have been announced repeatedly, but in reality they have been limited, partial and delayed. such actions do not give credibility to the decisions being made or announced. many of us have our eyes on france and germany. their leaders meet very often, but there is no concrete proposal. we understand their situation with the upcoming election. the european council has already taken a decision on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. his remarks show that he has good intentions regarding the future economic order of the union. the start of economic coordination should begin with the monitoring of national budgets at union level. the evaluation and comments on national budgets would be useful to all member states, including those already mentioned. budget monitoring is not an attack on national sovereignty. sovereignty is limited by life on credit and debt.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, commissioner, honourable members, i welcome the opportunity to take part in this debate; it is one of the final stages of a process which will lead in a few days’ time to the signature of the croatian accession treaty which will turn that country into the 28th member of the european union. this is a very positive development. i think we can all congratulate croatia on achieving a successful outcome to the lengthy process of negotiating accession. i want to use this occasion to reiterate a firm belief that enlargement policy is one of the biggest successes of the european union. european integration has as one of its primary objectives the strengthening of peace, stability and reconciliation. enlargement is one of the main instruments for reaching these objectives. at a time when the union is facing very significant challenges, which we just discussed a few minutes ago, the accession of croatia reminds us of the reasons why europeans have chosen to cooperate in the unique framework that is the european union. it reminds us of the extraordinary success of european integration as witnessed by the aspirations of others to become part of that success, and this parliament has been unfailing in its support for croatia throughout the negotiating process. i want to thank you for that support. i want to underline today that one of the cornerstones of the renewed consensus on enlargement is the ‘own merits’ principle: candidates progress according to their own efforts in meeting the strict conditionality laid down by the eu. this conditionality is essential for ensuring that they are ready for membership. membership of the eu of course brings significant benefits but it also brings with it obligations. these obligations themselves serve to ensure that all citizens are able to take full advantage of membership and this has a direct bearing on the credibility of the whole enlargement policy. it is something which i cannot underline enough. there is also another important aspect of credibility in the process. if the candidate fulfils the criteria set for membership, the eu also delivers on its promises. provided that you give your consent to the accession of croatia, the accession treaty can be signed next friday here in brussels. since the ceremony will take place in the morning, the croatian prime minister, ms kosor, will be able to be able to participate as an observer at the european council later the same day. let us hope she will witness a very optimistic and united european council. i want also to mention and underline that the work on croatia’s accession is not yet over. as stated by the european council in june, croatia will need to continue its reform efforts with the same vigour so as to be able to assume fully the obligations of membership from the date of accession. further sustainable results and improved track records are expected. close monitoring of progress in all areas before accession will continue, particularly in relation to judiciary and fundamental rights issues (chapter 23) and to the area of justice, freedom and security (chapter 24). the council has therefore been considering the commission’s progress report on croatia and the ongoing monitoring for all the negotiating chapters. let me assure you that the council, closely assisted by the commission, will continue to follow and assess developments and will keep this parliament fully informed. of course, let us not forget that the future accession of croatia is significant for the whole region. it is a very positive sign and it should be read as such a positive sign to foster stability, peace, prosperity and reconciliation based on good neighbourly relations. this fact, this event – the signature of the treaty – should also be a very strong encouragement to the other countries in the region to follow the same values, to follow reconciliation with neighbours and to show full determination on the road to fulfilling the accession criteria. we hope this event on 9 december will give a new momentum to the european perspective of the western balkans as a whole, provided that all countries concerned persevere on the path of reform.
member of the commission. − madam president, today is a decisive moment. you are called to give your consent to croatia becoming the 28th member state of the european union. i am pleased that many croatian colleagues who have worked with us for months and years are with us to share this important day. the commission has already given its favourable opinion, on 12 october. i hope that your vote tomorrow on the recommendation and resolution prepared by mr swoboda will be positive. this will allow the council to take its decision on the admission of croatia so that the accession treaty can be signed on 9 december. your vote is a vote for croatia, a vote for the region, and a vote for the european union. first of all, it is a vote for croatia – a croatia that is very different to the country that applied for accession to the european union nearly a decade ago, a croatia where the transformative power of the enlargement process can be clearly seen in many regards. the economy is ready to form a part of the internal market and has coped with the financial crisis, although in today’s challenging times croatia should not neglect further economic reform. most importantly, democratic principles and fundamental rights are respected and the rule of law has been strengthened through a number of reforms. this is the result of the hard work croatia has done across the board. following the renewed consensus on enlargement, croatia is the first candidate country to have completed accession negotiations in line with an adapted negotiating methodology, which involved a systematic use of benchmarks. croatia has been able to demonstrate that it met the strict conditions and will therefore be ready to become a member state on 1 july 2013. a specific focus has been placed on judiciary reform and the fight against corruption. this helped and guided croatia during the negotiation process. it has also led to substantial results on the ground: for example, the way the croatian prosecution and judicial authorities are addressing corruption cases. this is not the end of the story. croatia now has to demonstrate that it will live up to the commitments taken in the context of the negotiations. preparations will continue until accession. completing these preparations will be a key priority for the government which will be formed after the elections in december. i can assure you that the commission will continue monitoring and reporting on croatia’s respect of the commitments taken, thoroughly and objectively, all the way to accession. we will continue to assist croatia in this final phase of preparation. the commission will also continue keeping the european parliament fully informed and i am at your disposal to discuss our findings with you. this is also a vote for the region. croatia’s progress has shown the way to others. it has shown that the benefits of european integration are within their grasp. enlargement offers huge political, social and economic benefits. enlargement has served as an anchor of stability and regional cooperation. enlargement is a driver of democracy and the rule of law. economically, enlargement has led to increased living standards in the new member states. the enlargement process is not just about aligning legislation with the acquis communautaire. above all it is about changing society, about accepting the values on which our union is based. these values are closely linked to the areas of ‘judiciary and fundamental rights’ and ‘justice, freedom and security’. we have therefore developed a new approach and in future negotiations we suggest tackling these issues first and closing them last. we must not forget that this vote is also a vote for the european union. enlargement is in our strategic interest, for our security and our prosperity. the adoption of our values by the western balkans ensures stability and irreversible political reform. integration into the internal market benefits our exporters and investors. adoption of the acquis enables us to better meet our strategic policy objectives in fields such as energy, transport, the environment and other strategic interests. a credible enlargement policy is our most effective tool to support this process of reform and transformation. that the accession of croatia is now a reality proves the credibility of this policy. i would like to conclude by thanking you for your cooperation and support because, without it, i doubt that we would be able to make history here today.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − madam president, it is a happy thing that in these difficult times we can continue with enlargement which, contrary to certain fears, has always gone hand in hand with deepening, being a catalyst for indispensable change and bringing potential for growth. i would like to share with you one institutional point from my opinion. i would like to point out that the procedures for the adoption of, on the one hand, the accession treaty with the republic of croatia and, on the other hand, the protocols requested by ireland and czech republic, have different treaty bases – articles 49 and 48 respectively – and therefore they could not be legally incorporated into a single act. two procedures may coincide in time, reflecting the spirit of the political agreement incorporated into the council’s conclusions of june and october 2009. however, any linkage between the two processes may not in any way unduly delay the date of accession, so that we send a positive signal to the union, which is now in dire straits. to our croatian friends on their last journeys on the road to the european union, i would like to say ‘sretan put!’ [have a good journey!].
in writing. – twenty years after the declaration of its independence, and about eight years after submitting its application for eu membership, croatia has reached an historic accomplishment and is expected to become the eu’s 28th member in july 2013. croatia’s anticipated accession will result in the creation of a stronger and better unified european community. it will also provide inspiration to other candidate countries which have started the accession process, for the accession of croatia clearly illustrates the credibility of the eu’s enlargement policy. for croatia years of negotiations and preparations to meet the copenhagen criteria for eu membership have resulted in political, economic and social reforms that positively transformed the country’s landscape. yet, while acknowledging croatia is ready to enter the eu, we must also recognise croatia’s need to tackle remaining challenges. membership of the eu comes with many privileges and opportunities for prosperity, stability and raising living standards. my country, poland, is a vivid example that illustrates these benefits. but, being an eu member also comes with certain obligations, which croatia will best comply to if continuing to reform its juridical system, fight corruption, improve minorities’ rights and cooperate with the icty. i remain hopeful that by july 2013 croatia will have achieved all that.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, after many years of arduous negotiations, croatia is on the threshold of joining the european union. it is worth appreciating the landmark significance of this fact, since it is the first country to actively participate in the balkan conflict which is entering our community. it is only in this context that we can see how long and difficult the road has been. so i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to this success, especially the croats themselves. i would like to draw your attention to one fact. in the context of the current crisis, it is likely that many member states will introduce transitional periods for the free movement of workers from croatia. such steps must be based on sound and reliable information and not merely on unfounded assumptions. the example of some member states is the best illustration of the fact that waiting too long to open up the labour market to workers from the new member states actually has a negative impact on the economy of the country applying such restrictions. some of the 15 countries feared, for example, a massive influx of cheap workers from poland, and now they are not even able to get the ones that the economy needs. we must remember that growth is driven by work and that in times of crisis, effective human capital management is particularly important. i therefore hope that member states will not create unnecessary barriers to the free entry of croatian citizens to work in the eu.
in writing. – today, we are giving a positive sign not only to croatia, but also to europe. croatia’s accession is most welcomed in this time of crisis. it is a sign that the union is still an important place in the world. its membership is still something that all europeans who want to live in free and democratic societies strive for. croatia has done more to ensure it meets the criteria of membership than any in the past. the negotiation process was longer and more in-depth. it has already applied most eu directives and regulations and is ready to be full member of all the european institutions. it has also worked to address the problems left from the wars of the last century and to finalise reconciliation with its neighbours. before poland and hungary’s membership, many of the same questions and doubts were raised and yet today these countries are some of the most proud and pro-european of all nations. poland is better off today because of its membership in the union, so will croatia be. i look forward to welcoming croatia into our union. this is just one more step towards a europe where solidarity and peace are guaranteed.
in writing. in the face of the global economic crisis, it is important to maintain the stability of the european community. i would like to express my sincere satisfaction that another country will soon join the european union. croatia, a country with tourist attractions but also economic importance, especially in terms of its well-developed manufacturing industry, will be an important partner for eu members. croatia has also been a member of nato since 2009. its accession will seal the joint peace-building both in military and economic aspects, allowing for full synergy. despite the economic downturn, the european union is open to new potential partners, demonstrating the community's real strength - its well-established ideas of sustainable development and enlargement. the decisions that have been taken to monitor croatia until its accession are right, but they should typically have a monitoring and advisory role. they should not be used to promote political games. therefore, proposals to treat periodic reports as evaluating progress and providing an opportunity for political commentary rather than substantive commentary is, in my view, unnecessary and even unfavourable to both sides.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − mr president, i would like to make a few institutional points. firstly, i would like to stress that the formalisation of the european semester should in no way jeopardise the prerogatives of the european parliament as provided for in the treaties. secondly, institutions should cooperate in order to enhance the semester’s legitimacy and to clear the remaining legal ambiguities which otherwise may lead to institutional conflicts in the coming years. thirdly, the european semester and the economic dialogue should be regarded as elements of the eu institutional framework and, most importantly, should promote the community method involving the union institutions at all stages of the decision-making process. the commission here should play an independent and even stronger role in the process. finally, the decision to actually have the economic semester with 27 member states – all of them – seeks to achieve one of the most important goals now facing us, which is to avoid fragmentation. that is why i am very happy that the idea of creating a subcommittee in this parliament in which only members of the euro zone would be present was finally dropped.
mr president, i have two questions to the european commission. for me the european semester is not only about discipline and coordination but i think it is a major, serious instrument that we have at our disposal to push for structural reforms. my question to the commission is whether it is planning to prepare a kind of comparative track record on structural reforms which would allow us to see how individual member states advance on structural reforms? the second question is related to what was mentioned already in this house, which is that the recent recommendations on the 2011 semester were toned down by the council in some cases. my question is: in the commission’s view, has this affected the implementation of the structural reforms?
the european evaluation period is intended to verify the application of budgetary discipline by the member states and to enable the proper implementation of the europe 2020 objectives to be monitored. after one year, it is difficult to say with certainty whether the european semester will help achieve the objectives set. from the outset, there was no standard format for the european evaluation periods, which has resulted in a wide variety of documents being sent by the member states and a lack of transparency. in this context, the question arises as to the feasibility of the assessment carried out, given that the information provided is so different. the situation we have seen in the lisbon strategy is beginning to repeat itself. one year on, it is clear that some member states are not respecting the need to take account of the new strategy's assumptions, which may mean that the objectives it sets will not be achieved. it therefore seems necessary to put in place mechanisms to enforce from individual governments the submission of a precise action plan and timetable. we cannot allow another decade to be wasted by the union. whether we like it or not, the world is moving forward without looking at the internal problems of european countries. if we do not deliver on the europe 2020 vision, we will lose the global competition not only with the united states, but also with china, brazil and india. it is clear that the most harmful thing we can do is to pretend.
in writing. the ongoing debt crisis has shown that the current european economic governance system is not effective in preventing crises from occurring and spreading. the european semester is a cycle of peer reviews of eu countries' budgetary plans, which allows for the use of economic policy surveillance in the eu to prevent the emergence of major fiscal and structural problems. the first european semester was inaugurated on 1 january 2011 and, as experience has shown, this procedure needs to be improved. in most cases, the council has softened the commission's recommendations to member states, which may in future hinder effective economic coordination. this also demonstrates the superiority of the community method over the intergovernmental method in this area. in future, therefore, the role of parliament should be strengthened at the expense of the council when further regulations are drawn up, since this would make the shape of final recommendations independent of national political interests. the position of parliament can be strengthened, inter alia, by institutionalising the so-called economic dialogue, in particular by setting up a special parliamentary committee on the european semester. in the context of such a committee, meps could, among other things, ask the council to justify changes to the commission's recommendations and invite finance ministers from countries that have not implemented the recommendations to attend meetings. the explicit involvement of parliament will enhance the democratic legitimacy of the whole procedure, as well as the integrity of european law and the transparency of the institutional structure.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! i wanted to say a few words and focus on the legal act on the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights, an instrument that supports democracy, the protection of human rights, political pluralism, democratic participation and representation worldwide and actually allows intervention in sometimes very difficult situations. we live in the 21st century, but we see torture, death penalty, discrimination, persecution, child abuse and so on all the time. we're not going to fix the world with this tool, but it can certainly help to develop civil society, democracy, independent media, freedom of speech. so our work is very important. the outcome of the conciliation procedure could be summed up in a famous movie 'nobody is perfect', but i think our task today is to accept this compromise so that we can return to the question of strengthening parliament's position in the control of this instrument.
mr president, i very much regret that parliament was unable to fully defend its position during the negotiations with the council and the commission. i support the position that, in the future, parliament should have a greater say on how funding under this instrument is used. it should be the elected representatives and not the working groups in the commission who should decide on these important matters. in spite of this fact, i will vote in favour of the european instrument for democracy and human rights because i believe this programme is too important to delay any further. we must continue to work towards greater democracy in belarus, iran and the ukraine. we now need to enlarge our actions in this domain. in addition to the european instrument for democracy we should now move towards the creation of a european endowment for democracy. the original idea of the european instrument for democracy was for an endowment and now is the time to fulfil this idea. in combining both instruments, i believe the role of the european union in promoting democracy in the world will definitely be strengthened.
mr. chairman, please! as the chairman of the delegation for relations with belarus, i know how important it is that the european commission, and the union in general, have an instrument to provide financial support to ngos working for democracy and human rights under the conditions dictated by authoritarian regimes. the example of the sad story of alasia bialacki, who was sentenced to 4.5 years in a hard labour camp in belarus for having received foreign aid, also proves that these instruments should be as flexible as possible in order to facilitate the use of the funds we allocate to support these people and at the same time protect them from repression. i am pleased that the current negotiations have led to the adoption of the current regulations. i am glad that they are a little more flexible than the previous solutions, but i hope that the future solutions will allow even more effective support for organisations working for democracy and human rights in countries such as belarus.
financial instruments are a means to an end. in the case of foreign policy, that is external action, including development policy, the instruments used require particular finesse in their selection. how can we prioritize? how much for education? how much for financial and material assistance? where do you put entrepreneurship development or humanitarian aid and democracy development or development aid for ngos? the european parliament is an institution elected by society and therefore has a special right to decide on the allocation of funds for the construction and development of freedom, democracy and human rights, the building of civil society and the fulfilment of social and environmental requirements.
mr. chairman, please! i thank you, commissioner, for your kind words to all those involved in this very important event. i would say that it is an event that gives wings to all those - i am thinking of the single market forum in krakow - who are working hard to remove barriers to the common market effectively, to make the european union more and more friendly to citizens. citizens, that is to say, consumers and businesses as a single group, form the backbone of the european union. i too, on your behalf, would like to thank commissioner barnier very much, who has been involved with us in this project, but also director emer daly of dg markt b, a wonderful team that we rarely talk about, and who has indeed taken on a huge part of the responsibility and the work. it was a good experience, and i agree with most, or almost all, of the comments that came before me. and i also agree that we need to continue to have a dialogue with the public. the krakow declaration was an example of what could be achieved. we should keep getting those results. i just wanted to ask you, commissioner, why the decision to hold the next forum in brussels? we haven't talked about it yet. i understand that we make these decisions together: parliament, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we have other very good proposals, too, and we'd like to talk about them. the last sentence, mr. chairman! twenty years have passed. (the president cut off the speaker)
one of the challenges facing europe in the face of the financial and economic crisis is to promote the single market, which is the foundation for success in a united europe. it is worth recalling that in april this year the commission presented a package of proposals to improve the common market, the so-called single market act by commissioner barnier. this document consists of a series of projects, the adoption of which by the end of 2012 is expected to improve the functioning of the common market for the benefit of businesses, workers and consumers. almost 20 years have passed since the creation of the internal market based on the four freedoms of movement of people, goods, services and capital. however, the growth potential has not yet been fully exploited. there is therefore no doubt that these are the actions necessary to take full advantage of the single market, the main strength of the european economy.
member of the commission. − mr president, the discussions that have just been completed are very important in the realisation of our commitment to relaunching the single market and responding proactively to the crisis we are now facing. the solution of the crisis depends on an effective single market which, in turn, depends on innovative business and empowered consumers. as i said in my introductory comments, we are emphasising the social aspect of the single market because we cannot divorce the consumer from the worker, as participants in the single market. i think the objective of what we are doing here is the advancement of the citizens of europe. the advancement is not achieved through a record of statistics but in a real, actual quality of life that we can deliver. your determination will provide solid political support for the results of the single market. i completely agree with mr harbour when he says that this is a collaborative effort. we have to move together. member states, parliament, commission, consumers, businesses; everybody has to move together to make this single market a reality. i can vouch that in the commission we are 15 commissioners who have committed to delivering the global act encompassing several policy areas. we expect the same commitment from the european parliament with a fast track for the sme agenda. it will encourage us to continue to organise future events along the lines and in the spirit of the forum. the forum that took place in krakow is not the first and last forum that will be organised. we believe that its success indicates to us the importance of developing this activity on a permanent basis to try to deliver it in a series of similar events. at this stage we cannot determine the exact frequency at which it will happen and, in answer to ms thun und hohenstein, we have not yet determined the location of the next forum or activity that will take place. there were some discussions but no decisions have been taken and everything is still being discussed. as we have said, as this is a collective effort there should also be collective dialogue in elaborating the details. i believe that we must continue to build on what we have achieved so far. these are all steps in the right direction in order to achieve what we have set out to do – a very active single market.
mr. chairman, please! in fact, the commissioner has in the meantime answered a question which i wanted to finish because my previous statement was a little too long. i was just about to say something about this location. i agree with what the commissioner said: there are a lot of things happening in brussels. the strength of this last forum was that it took place outside brussels. it was really a consultation with ordinary citizens of the european union, which was beneficial both for the officials who met people they do not meet every day and for the 10 000 citizens who visited the information tent, citizens who benefit from the common market. that is why we should avoid holding such meetings in brussels. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the need to review the 2009-2013 hiv/aids response plan in the european union and neighbouring countries is linked to the rapid progress in research into the nature of the disease and its treatment. a new antiviral medicine was registered in may 2011. it is necessary to review the objectives and the means and amount of funding for further research. as in any field, prevention is the most effective. since hiv remains asymptomatic for a long period (about 10 years on average), systematic screening is necessary. we also need effective information and education campaigns. they should be addressed primarily to the most vulnerable groups. in poland, for example, about 50 percent of hiv infections are among people between 20 and 29 years of age. people with hiv and aids face not only the disease but also discrimination and stigma, and often lack of funds for treatment. intolerance leads to poor access to employment and poverty, which in turn increases the risk of disease and closes the vicious circle. as nelson mandela said, "it's not aids that's the killer, but stigma, discrimination and ostracism are the real killers". on the occasion of world aids day, december 1, i appeal for understanding and institutional support for all those who are sick.
the european union is in desperate need of good news at this time and the fact that the eu institutions parliament, council and commission have agreed on the annual budget of the european union for 2012 is such good news. i would like to thank everyone here for their goodwill and cooperation, and especially to thank the staff: our assistants, advisors, secretarial staff, who often work at night in conditions that are unhygienic. we must not forget, however, that the fundamental, important and very serious problems relating to the budget of the european union have not been resolved in our negotiations, and that the problems we have to face as budgetary authorities in the near future are very clear. i would like to look in particular at the problem of amending budget no 6 for 2011. i am glad that we have been able to reach agreement on this amending budget too, but it is clear that the problems which have come to light in this budget will be repeated and, moreover, will accumulate. why is that? i think it comes from the expectations of the european union, ambition, plans, the opening up of new policies, new activities, such as joint diplomacy, an increasing commitment to humanitarian policies, the continuation of ambitious structural activities, research activities - i could go on and on. all these ambitions, actions and expectations are not matched by the willingness of the member states to finance them. this is a problem that will not only not go away, but will grow because we are committing to more and more actions, and the payments are not going with them, and i hope that the openness and dialogue that we have seen in the conciliation process will accompany us in solving the payment problem that i am talking about right now. i'm certainly very open to that conversation. thank you again, and i think the reconciliation process is the beginning of a long road.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would also like to start by congratulating the success of the compromise on the 2012 budget, which has undoubtedly been reached, although there is a certain shortfall, as growth is lower than the inflation forecast by the european commission. i would also like to underline the contribution of the polish presidency to achieving a compromise between the european commission's proposal, the european parliament's position and the expectations of the member states. i am also pleased to note that the cuts - however severe - have not affected cohesion policy, which is the most pro-growth of all european policies and helps to maintain the necessary level of investment in times of crisis. with such a tight budget, it is necessary to seek reserves where european funds are not being spent effectively and to unlock their full potential for growth and jobs.
let's see if we can work it out, mr. rübig. we're going to inform the security service. yeah, really, they're very annoying things.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are discussing the very modest budget for 2012, below 1% of eu gni, despite growing responsibilities under the lisbon treaty and despite growing challenges which deserve a common answer. although this budget is nominally growing, it is not growing in real terms – in real terms it is decreasing. and we are not asking on behalf of the commission or on behalf of parliament; here we are starting savings. 94% of what we are asking for is for the operational expenditure of a different nature from that which is in the national budgets. therefore i have to respond to some speakers who notoriously accuse us of growing while others are making cuts. this is simply not true; this is true of only about four countries, which are easy to guess – greece, ireland, spain and portugal, which are decreasing. the other national budgets of the european union are growing, including the uk and the dutch budgets. despite all the savings, we have some obligations to make payments from the european budget. this is all the same, with the big difference that the european budget is always in equilibrium and cannot be blamed for the mismanagement of fiscal policy at the national level. this is mainly about investment, as clearly explained, for example, by anne jensen or mr vaughan from wales, in the name of the stakeholders of the budget. i am sorry to repeat this on so many occasions but some members of the parliament have the habit of making a critical point and leaving before they receive the answer.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? of course, we can debate for a long time about the amount of commitment appropriations, the amount of payment appropriations and there will always be a group of people who are not satisfied. the same applies to national budgets, where some people are always unhappy that the resources for a given priority have not been taken into account to the extent they would have liked. but let us remember: we have a very difficult economic situation in the european union, very big problems in the member states to find any additional resources. but for me, there are two very important messages from this year's budgetary procedure that i think are worth highlighting at this point and are worth remembering. firstly, this year's budgetary procedure has confirmed that it is still possible to discuss and solve very difficult issues in the european union using only the community method. this is a very important message. we have followed exactly the lisbon treaty in reaching this agreement. no other extra-institutional action was required. it's a value we should be pursuing right now. we have set an example for the whole of the european union that the community method still works. the second very important message is that despite the criticism of amending budget no 6 to this year's budget, its adoption proves that the commitments made by parliament and the council during the budgetary procedure are respected. we can continue to debate whether or not we should have taken the 200 million. and everyone who participated in the conciliation process remembers that the discussion was really about whether 200 million is the right amount or not, or whether at this moment, at the moment of decision-making, we are sure that the budget needs this particular amount and not some other, greater or lesser. and that was the discussion: not whether to give money, but how much money to give. i think that these are two very important messages from this budgetary procedure and we should bear them in mind. we are currently succeeding in implementing the provisions of the eu, in implementing the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, and this is what we should be showing above all. thank you so much!
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, i would like to agree with the analysis just made by the president of the council: the european union, the europe of the twenty-seven, is the useful europe, it is the europe that works. we hear here and there the wish to bring together a number of members of the european union to go further, to work more effectively in some areas, in a few. for the time being, the useful europe, the europe that works, is the europe of the twenty-seven. and the fact that in this unprecedented crisis we have been able to reach an agreement to give the european union the budget it needs next year is good news. the council - and i congratulate it - unanimously adopted this draft budget. parliament will vote in a few minutes. there will be three successive votes: a vote on the adaptation of the interinstitutional agreement, a vote on the 2012 budget and a vote on amending budget no 6 for 2011. these three votes are the subject of the same political agreement and i would ask our colleagues to express their support by a large majority, which is unlikely to achieve unanimity in the council, but could come close.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) written declarations (rule 149)
for the past 23 years, world aids day has been observed on the first of december. this year marks the sad 30th anniversary of the first case of the disease. sadly, despite the best efforts of scientists, the spread of hiv has not been effectively contained. moreover, studies show that the incidence of disease increases during a crisis. world aids day is an opportunity to show our support for people living with the virus, often suffering, and to remember those who have lost the fight against aids. let me make the second statement. we are voting today on croatia's accession treaty. during this journey towards european membership, dialogue between our parliaments has been a driving force in moving forward an impressive number of reforms, but also in building true friendship. i myself was on an official visit to croatia a few weeks ago and i remember the extraordinary welcome i received, and it was a welcome for all the members of the european parliament. it is a great pleasure and honour for me to announce that today we welcome the speaker of the croatian parliament, mr luka bebić, who is present in the gallery. (applause) we look forward to welcoming members of the croatian parliament permanently in this house, first as observers and then as full members. you, dear speaker of the parliament, and your colleagues, are already full members of the european family. welcome to the club.
the next item is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
dear colleagues, mr minister dominik, mr commissioner, the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2012 was the second full procedure to be conducted according to the new procedure introduced by the lisbon treaty. for the first time, a joint text was agreed by the conciliation committee within the 21 days provided for in article 314(5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. with today’s vote, the joint text has now been approved by the european parliament and the council. i consider that the budgetary procedure has been carried out in a legal and regular manner in conformity with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2012 can thus be deemed to be completed. i therefore declare that the budget is definitively adopted. congratulations for your efforts, dear friends. (applause)
all right, buddy, thanks for the heads-up. that request can be granted.
i would like to thank the committee on constitutional affairs and all the colleagues who were so active in the codes of conduct. it was great work. thank you very much.
i now call the vote closed.
mr. chairman, please! the intensification of action to prevent the spread of hiv is of great importance both at member state and european union level. many of the demands made in the resolution on the eu's response to hiv and aids are worthy of support and rapid implementation. unfortunately, once again, in the case of public health issues, the european parliament's legislative acts contain more or less explicit recommendations for the extension of abortion. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. - the phenomenon of early school leaving among young people in the european union is a serious problem. i fully support cooperation between member states in this area. we can reduce the severity of this process by cooperating with the countries. in today's low population growth rate, it is vital that young people receive an education that will enable them to take up valuable and well-paying jobs in later years. this will help to improve the material situation of future workers, thereby reducing the poverty rate. this will have a positive impact on the economy in the future and will also improve its stability. the teaching in schools can be adapted in such a way that students are eager to download it and feel that it will be useful in their later life. by using innovative teaching methods, we can influence the development of students, which will encourage them to continue their education. unusual ways of learning, such as through dance, theatre or other forms of expression, can lead to a decrease in early school leaving. learning through play will become more friendly and interesting for students, which may result in a lower percentage of young people being discouraged from learning in the future. today, there is a greater problem of early school leaving in rural areas than in urban areas. there are regions that are waiting for our help in this area. in this context, it is also important to support schools and parents to be able to reach pupils better.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, as a polish member of the delegation to the parliamentary cooperation committee between the european union and russia, i welcome the announcement of the introduction of visa-free travel for residents of the russian kaliningrad oblast and polish border areas. this is an achievement for my country, for the whole of the european union, and at the same time for russia, in opening up to each other for a better future. it is not politicians who shape cross-border contacts, but the open flow of ordinary citizens. this is accompanied by economic and intellectual potential, which is driving the development of border areas in all its forms, from tourism to business and culture. this is why my country is very interested in visa-free travel with kaliningrad and is keen to extend it to other areas. unfortunately, the name of the russian district in poland evokes bad associations, derived from kalinin, a soviet officer who was complicit in the murder of polish officers in katyn. the use of the traditional name królewiec for kaliningrad by the polish side should alleviate the existing dissonance.
in writing. - i would like to express my full support for this report. one of the ideas of the european union is the free movement of people, which is meant to serve the good of human relations and the exchange of trade and intellectual goods. so instead of building barriers, we should be easing them. the kaliningrad region is a specific enclave, and before the accession of poland and lithuania to the eu, the inhabitants of the border areas maintained close contacts in various spheres of life. it is understandable that we want to protect the external border of the union, but we must take account of the exceptional nature of this situation, as in the case of romania and moldova, or slovakia, poland and ukraine. specific visa-free border procedures would allow free trade to develop and make life easier for the people of these areas who have been deprived of the relationships built up over many years. the need for this is well illustrated by the statistics.
in writing. - the report voted on shows a disparity in the treatment of partners. on the one hand, all residents of the kaliningrad oblast are given the opportunity to cross the border, while on the polish side, only 50 km of the border strip is covered by the visa-free program. this harmful inequality should be addressed by extending this zone to the entire voivodeship and raising the issue at the next eu-russia meeting. unfortunately, the resolution also made no mention of the possibility of commercial and tourist ships passing through the pilav strait into the waters of the bay of biscay. the russian side currently wants to restrict the law of harmless flow covering this category of straits. i think that we should try as a union to compensate for the disparities in the treatment of the inhabitants of the regions bordering the perimeter and to allow the population of the whole province, not just the selected counties, to cross this perimeter without any border.
in writing. − i had the pleasure of working in the previous term in the joint eu-croatia delegation. the accession of croatia to the european union is a strengthening of political stability in the western balkans. hopefully, this will be the beginning of another enlargement of the eu to include the countries of the former yugoslavia. i believe that croatia has met the necessary economic and political criteria. in the context of this region, where new relationships are being formed, and in a time of crisis, this was probably particularly difficult. it is good to keep up with this pace of change, to establish the rule of law, to fight corruption and to prepare for the challenges of the single market. welcome and good luck!
in writing. - i wanted to express my full support for the content of the new code of conduct for members on financial interests and conflicts of interest. i am glad that we were able to reach a compromise at the committee stage, as reflected in the large number of votes cast by colleagues in favour of the amendments to the rules of procedure. the new amendments to the code of conduct for members are another important step towards the introduction of clearer rules, and clear penalties for non-compliance, and are intended to increase confidence in parliament and to improve the overall transparency of the european institutions. the new rules focus on introducing strict rules on conflicts of interest, the preparation of financial statements published on parliament's website and the acceptance of occasional gifts. in addition, the new rules also cover rapporteurs who may lose their mandate if they breach the abovementioned rules of the code of conduct. i also think it is a good initiative to set up an advisory committee on the conduct of members to help members in the practical interpretation and implementation of the code. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur responsible from the committee on constitutional affairs for the enormous amount of work he has put into preparing the report.
in writing. − we are now in the first year of the european evaluation period, the procedure for coordinating the economic policies of the eu member states. this procedure was introduced following an economic crisis caused to a large extent by excessive debt. today, we are in the midst of the worst economic crisis in the history of the eu, and it is clear that the european review period is not a sufficient means to restore confidence in financial markets and return to growth. it is obvious that this will be followed by further actions, which we look forward to. at the moment, in the first year of the european semester, it is difficult to predict whether this instrument is fulfilling its role. while successive member states are implementing the commission's recommendations, such as raising the retirement age, facilitating access to capital or using public procurement to stimulate the economy, there is still a lack of determination and coordination at european level. it is to be hoped that the further steps towards the coordination of eu economic policy which we expect to take place shortly after the december summit, together with the streamlined european review period, will produce the expected results and contribute to a swift exit of europe from the debt crisis.
in writing. − i voted against the resolution on the eu's global response to hiv/aids because it contains not only provisions that i support on health care priorities and on improving the living conditions and treatment of people infected with the virus. the resolution also addresses the issue of abortion on demand, which neither the polish government nor i support. i think that the resolution on hiv should not deal with issues that are not related to the essence of the problem, such as legal abortion, because it can mislead the public.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the association agreement with ukraine is a huge step towards closer relations with our eastern neighbours. given the need for continuous improvement of security as well as economic development, cooperation with kiev will benefit the community as a whole. while supporting ukraine in the process of reforming the treaty areas of life, i also expect the ukrainian authorities to commit themselves to the full alignment of the political, legal and administrative conditions to enable the full participation of all citizens in the political process. i see the development of civil society as a key element of democratization as extremely important. by raising citizens' social awareness and increasing their participation in public life, we will stimulate the flourishing of a modern and friendly ukrainian state. i therefore support the urgent need to set up an eu information office. i am pleased that the conclusion of the association negotiations comes under the polish presidency, which has placed a strong emphasis on relations within the eastern partnership throughout its term. i approve the resolution.
in writing. − on 1 march 1998, a partnership and cooperation agreement was signed between the eu and ukraine. it was the first step towards a closer relationship between the two entities. the next step, which will provide a closer framework for cooperation, is the eu-ukraine association agreement. this will lead to the partial implementation of eu law in the legal system of ukraine and to the strengthening of economic and political ties. however, it should be noted that the recent arrest of former prime minister of ukraine yulia tymoshenko has a negative impact on the conclusion of the above-mentioned association agreement, since it calls into question the functioning of democracy and the independence of the judiciary in ukraine. it therefore seems appropriate to introduce a legal mechanism in the future arrangement allowing for the possible suspension of the arrangement in the event of deliberate non-compliance by the government of ukraine with the relevant provisions of the arrangement. the future association agreement should regulate in detail matters relating to economic and trade cooperation. the key issue to be addressed here seems to be energy cooperation. it is necessary for the mutual diversification of energy sources and the security of transit of energy resources from russia. it is also necessary to combat corruption in public office. the agreement must also impose requirements on ukraine for the introduction of a visa-free regime between ukraine and the eu. such a solution could be tested in practice during the 2012 european football championship.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the modernisation of the customs service is one of the tasks undertaken to facilitate the conduct of business in the union. the implementation of the concept of centralised customs clearance, which allows businesses to declare goods electronically and make payments at their place of establishment, can greatly simplify customs procedures. the formulation of an appropriate customs strategy as one of the priorities of the member states is also a key element for european competitiveness. it will help to improve the protection of intellectual property rights and to combat the illegal import of counterfeit goods or products. safety is also important. both in terms of eliminating the import of life-threatening materials and illegal immigration using freight transport. to be able to remain vigilant in the face of a continuing threat, customs services need to be in the best position to ensure that only safe products that meet legal requirements enter member states. i voted for the report.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 1 december 2011.
i would like to make the following comments to you at the beginning of our session: i wanted to draw your attention to the priority debate tomorrow. it will be the report of the president of the european council, herman van rompuy, on the last european council summit. the debate is expected to be the longest possible, almost three hours. i would urge you to take part in this debate, which is crucial for the european union. this case is crucial to us. secondly, we have heard that an agreement has been reached at the climate conference in durban. of course, it is not satisfactory, for it does not give any details of what is to occur in the future. but i would like to emphasise that the european union and the delegates of the european parliament play a very important role. there were 15 of our colleagues present and this time it seems that the delegation of the european union spoke with one voice at the conference. this is very important. (laughter) this year marks the 60th anniversary of the convention relating to the status of refugees. this is the basis of our eu asylum rules. it also defines the international concept of a refugee. the european parliament, as you know, is very active, very involved in refugee issues. we also took part in the negotiations on the common european asylum system. we call for its full implementation in 2012. i would like to remind you that there is a refugee camp in tunisia called shusha, which is for refugees from libya, but also from almost all african countries. these are people who can't go back to their homeland. the european union, and above all the member states, should decide on this. the united states has declared that it will take in 800 refugees, norway 400, the european union, so far all member states 150. there are 3,800 of them. they are not allowed to return to their homelands, and today they are being taken care of by the tunisian authorities. they live in the open desert under tents. and one last note: i'd like to mention an important anniversary. tomorrow marks 30 years since the communist authorities of poland imposed martial law. it was an attempt to suppress the solidarity movement. many people also died for those who defended the right to free speech, to freedom. many were arrested and persecuted. if you compare what europe looks like, especially central and eastern europe 30 years later, you can see how much success we have achieved together. because without the help of western democracies, human rights and democracy in the countries of central and eastern europe could not have developed as they have. it also requires us to help the countries of north africa, those east of the union and those in the western balkans in the same way today. (laughter) ladies and gentlemen, i have the following ongoing announcements. one message very pleasant for us i say right away. as a result of the entry into force of protocol no 36 on transitional provisions for the composition of the european parliament until the end of the 2009-2014 parliamentary term, parliament has 17 additional seats as from 1 december , i.e. for a few days now . we have 17 new colleagues. eighteen colleagues from the netherlands will be joining us shortly. i will now read the names of our 17 new colleagues, and after reading them, i would ask that the new colleagues stand up because they are with us in the room because we would like to welcome them.
the final draft agenda drawn up by the conference of presidents in accordance with rule 137 of the rules of procedure was distributed. the following changes are proposed: [tuesday]: as agreed with the political groups, the debate on the report by mária davida and marka siwca on the european neighbourhood policy will be placed on the agenda as the last item of the afternoon session, following the debate on the situation in syria. the purpose of this change is to group all debates in which baroness ashton will be present, i.e. as decided by the political groups, the david/siwiec report will be discussed at the end of the afternoon session. mrs. ashton will be there.
dear colleague, we can raise this point during the discussion with baroness ashton because it is now too late to change anything on our agenda.
i will inform baroness ashton about this issue. it is quite obvious that we should discuss such an important point because baroness ashton will be with us for longer this time, so there will be time for that. i will inform baroness ashton about that. [środa]: grupa ppe zwróciła się o dodanie do porządku dziennego pytania ustnego do komisji dotyczącego swobodnego przepływu pracowników w unii europejskiej.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mr carl haglund, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco (11226/2011 - c7-0201/2011 - 2011/0139(nle)) (a7-0394/2011),- oral question to the commission on the future protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco, tabled by mr carl haglund, on behalf of the fraga estévez group, and by mrs carmen alde, on behalf of the group b7-067/2011 (oj c 191, 19.7.2011).
in writing. the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement is a highly emotional issue in the european parliament. but i would urge you to have a meaningful debate on this. i agree that the most controversial is the vague territorial specification. however, it should not dominate the debate and be misused to block an agreement. i believe that until the issue of the status of western sahara is formally resolved at the un, the agreement should continue in its present form. i would just like to briefly remind you that the agreement is in accordance with international law and does not in any way violate its provisions. it is also cost-effective and environmentally responsible. it brings benefits and benefits to the 11 eu member states and to the moroccan people: around 800 jobs for european fishermen, thousands of jobs in the processing and coastal industries in morocco and, as the european commission points out, in the western sahara. the agreement is politically and economically necessary and if its extension is rejected, it will be a very bad signal to the moroccan authorities, who have already started the process of democratization, in the face of the "arab spring of the peoples".
madam president! after two years of intensive work by the european parliament, the commission and the council, we will adopt the european protection order tomorrow. i believe that the natural consequence of closer cooperation between member states in the fight against crime is to extend the protection of victims of these crimes to a european scale. the common legal basis of the european protection order is primarily aimed at protecting victims of domestic violence. the statistics show how many people are waiting for this document. in my country, poland, last year, there were over 100,000 cases of domestic violence, and that's certainly not the full scale of the problem. many victims do not reveal their tragedy because of fear of their perpetrator and the ineffective protection that the justice system could provide. that is why the protection aspect at european level is so important. the directive will give victims of domestic violence legal protection outside their country of residence. protective measures such as restraining orders and eviction orders issued in one country will have the same effect in another country that has committed to protect victims under the european protection order. i hope that the broad protection guaranteed by this directive will contribute effectively and efficiently to improving the situation of victims of violence and will become a chance for them to start a new life.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're talking about a much-needed directive. a fair trial requires respect for the rights of the defence, and the right of the defence can only be exercised if the person making use of it is fully informed of what rights he or she has in general. a person arrested has a difficult defense, and even more difficult if he is arrested in a country other than his home country. this full information should therefore be of particular concern to law enforcement authorities. while accepting all the solutions proposed by the directive, i only express my concern that the execution will actually be a good thing in any case, because we are touching on a difficult and delicate matter the independence of the judiciary. problems may arise with the actual functioning of this directive in practice. there should be an appropriate system for dealing with complaints of abuse of the powers provided for in this directive.
mr. chairman, please! the right to information in criminal proceedings for suspects and accused persons is one of the foundations that should be guaranteed by the standards of any civilized state. the work done on this document here in the house is therefore to be welcomed. however, we are satisfied that this type of regulation on certain fundamental rights is covered here. it is also necessary to take account of a factor which has not been taken into account here, and which deserves attention, namely the situation of the victims, who are often in a similar, extremely difficult situation and do not receive the relevant information, even though they are victims of sometimes even cruel crimes. it happens that victims of such crimes fall in countries where they are guests, tourists, where they are unable to move and defend their rights and rights because of the language barrier. we cannot forget them, we cannot create a certain disproportion between the rights of the victim and the rights of the accused. let's remember that the victims are often later victimized again (this is referred to in science as "re-victimization") as a result of the callous actions of the justice authorities, who do not respect their rights to information, their rights to be cared for, because they should be in the foreground. it happens that a criminal, often acting in an organized group with full knowledge of what he is doing, has more rights in some legal systems than his victim. we need to speak up in this house about victim's rights. i ask the commissioner to be willing to also get involved in the process for the victims, for all those who are victims of serious crimes and then are completely ignored by the state apparatus, also in europe. that forces us to change, commissioner. let's do something about it.
mr. chairman, please! on 11 october 2011, former prime minister of ukraine yulia tymoshenko was found guilty and sentenced to seven years in prison. in addition, the court banned her from holding public office for three years and ordered her to pay compensation to naftogaz. since then, the former prime minister has been in prison awaiting trial. on 1 december 2011, the appeal court rejected tymoshenko's appeal and also refused to release her from prison on health grounds. the successive court rulings show that the decision was taken by the president of ukraine not to respond to the proposals made by the european union, including the amendment of the criminal law and the dismissal of tymoshenko's case or the recognition of her appeal. the conviction, which provides for the continued detention, indicates that the party of regions is more concerned with domestic policy issues. the former prime minister's imprisonment means ukraine's actual isolation in the west. however, the refusal of the yanukovych-controlled parliament to change the penal code, the subsequent trials and the rejection of the appeal indicate that the camp of power has no intention of releasing the former prime minister, who is being held in prison in scandalous conditions and with limited access. both the european commission and the european parliament should not forget the case, and brussels and strasbourg... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the european council and the european commission on the conclusions of the european council (8-9 december 2011).
mr president, i welcome the substance of the agreement reached, a binding commitment to macrofinancial debt brakes and fiscal rigours, and strengthening the firewall and firepower of the esm. the question is, are those instruments sufficient? this remains an open question. i welcome the wide, inclusive front of – hopefully – 26 member states. it is not 17 plus, it is 27 minus. we should preserve the unity of the union and avoid a two-speed europe at all costs. the dividing line, unfortunately, is between those willing and those unwilling, not between eurozone and non-eurozone. we are all in the same boat. it is a crisis of excessive debt, not a crisis of the euro currency. i am extremely concerned by the method chosen, i.e. an intergovernmental agreement. the third-best option was chosen and the lowest common denominator applied. it has one key deficiency: it is outside the single institutional framework of the eu treaty and its institutions. it has three deficiencies. it is weaker in terms of enforcement – no ec, no ecj; it is weaker in terms of democratic scrutiny legitimacy – no european parliament; and it weakens the community method as such. we have to try to remedy the shortcomings of this imperfect compromise. the european parliament should be invited to be associated with the agreement, because in future it will be part of the acquis. we should provide for the repatriation and transposition of this fiscal union agreement into the eu legal order and treaties and institutions. the rights of the european parliament in this new agreement should be guaranteed and safeguarded.
president of the commission. − mr president, many important issues were raised during this debate. first of all, on the issue of substance and form, i agree that in a community that is based on the rule of law form is important. that is why we in the commission did everything we could to get an agreement that could be considered compatible with the community method, an agreement that could be signed by all the member states. i have to say that this was not only the position of the commission, but of the president of the european council. he presented that as the clear preference. it was also the opinion of most of our member states. today i presented to you in a very open way – because i think this is my duty in terms of democratic accountability to this parliament – why i think this was not possible. the alternative now is either to avoid stronger commitments of the european union, namely of those member states that are ready to go further, or try to formulate this agreement in a way that is fully compatible with european union law. this issue raises important legal and institutional matters. i have been frank in making some of these points to you. i think it is possible to do it, but it requires efforts on all sides. this is what the commission is determined to do while always trying to be constructive. i think it is possible to come to an agreement that is fully compatible with european law and that addresses some of the concerns in terms of discipline and convergence in the euro area and indeed beyond the euro area. i can say to you what i also said in the european council and in the formal summit, namely that i think this parliament should be associated with the present efforts for finding that solution. i am ready to work with you to that end. an issue that came up very often in the debate today was the position of the united kingdom. it is important to put the uk relationship with the rest of the european union in its proper context. emotions are what they are but i think, as some of you have mentioned, that it is important to see how we can get out of a situation that was indeed unfortunate. i welcome the statement made yesterday by prime minister cameron that he intends to continue to pursue a positive policy of engagement in the european union on a whole range of issues, including growth and economic reform, smart regulation, fighting climate change and the development agenda. i sincerely believe that we have a joint interest to agree, and to agree among all of us. i think that it is in all of our interests to have a united kingdom government that fully engages with the other member states and the european institutions. indeed, it is the european institutions that are the best guarantee that the interests of all member states, including the uk, will be fully respected. it is precisely through european institutions and in full respect of the community method that we can avoid any kind of split, any kind of directorium, or any kind of derivation that will be negative for the overall interests of the union and each one of its member states. i therefore hope that we can work constructively with the uk government to make sure that the fiscal compact now agreed dovetails neatly with the european union treaties so that the interests of all member states and european institutions, including this parliament, are respected. regarding the evaluation of the results, i was extremely prudent on purpose. i tried to avoid adjectives as much as i could. the reality is that by now we have all learned that the solution to this crisis – as i have mentioned very often – is not a sprint, it is a marathon. when i use the expression ‘marathon’ i am not just thinking about the greek situation. one can lose confidence in one day, but to recover confidence takes much longer. so what we need now in the euro area, and in the european union, is a commitment to sustainability, to persistence, to rigour, to discipline and to convergence over time. there will be no panacea. there is no silver bullet. in these matters there are no miracles. i think it is also important that we show everybody, including our partners, that we are committed to a solution and that we will work consistently, coherently and over time to reach that solution. as some of you said – and in fact i also made the point in my introductory remarks – the issue of budget discipline and addressing the problems of debt is an important one, but it is not the whole problem. we have in europe, and in the euro area, a problem of sovereign debt. this sovereign debt is partly the cause of the crisis, but it is partly also the result of the crisis. the crisis started with the subprime problems when in fact there was a problem in terms of the evaluation of risk by markets and investors. we have both a sovereign debt crisis and a financial crisis at the same time, but at the origin of these different crises we have a problem in europe of competitiveness. we are losing our position to many of our competitors in the world. that is why we need the reforms to enhance our competitiveness and to liberate the potential for growth. that is why in fact what we have discussed in this summit is only part of the solution because it addresses only part of the problem. we need fiscal discipline. we need of course to be rigorous in terms of having a debt sustainability path, but we also need measures for growth. i made this point very clearly. we need growth in europe. that is why i think we now have an agenda. we have the eu 2020 agenda and we have other initiatives to address this major problem of growth. without creating confidence globally that europe is able to restore growth, i believe we cannot get out of this current crisis. this is our position. this is the position that the commission has sustained over time and we are ready to work with you and of course with all the institutions in that direction, as i said earlier, to build a europe of stability but also a europe of growth, a europe of responsibility but also a europe of solidarity. this is our commitment and we will go on working for this, hopefully with all the member states and in full respect of the principles that made our union what it is today, after all a union of free, democratic societies committed to the very strong values of the rule of law, justice, freedom and solidarity. (applause)
president of the european council. - mr president, first of all, as regards the overall assessment of the results of this european council, i think we must be consistent in our analysis. we cannot say at the same time that the financial markets are partly responsible for the present crisis and the difficulties we have to overcome and at the same time say that we are waiting for the reaction of the financial markets to evaluate the decisions taken at political level at the european summits. as the president of the commission has just said, ladies and gentlemen, there is unfortunately no miracle cure, not at all. trust can only be restored step by step. the crisis of trust has been too deep for any change to happen overnight. we do not always have all the facts and i will not go into that. but the fact that some member states have not carried out the plans they were asked to do creates mistrust. the fact that some member states have waited far too long to act - we experienced this again this summer - creates a crisis of confidence which cannot be resolved at union level. the member states therefore have a very great responsibility. there are also crises of trust that are completely unnecessary. on 21 july we decided to make our rescue instrument, the efsf, more flexible, more effective. and the markets believed that the measures taken and the measures decided could never be passed by the parliaments of the 17 member states of the euro area. we did it anyway. (the president declared the chamber silent) so in the summer, on 21 july, we made decisions to make our temporary rescue fund system more effective. we have managed to get all this approved by the parliaments of the seventeen countries in less than three months, about two and a half months. the markets have had very serious doubts about our success. we did, but in the meantime, the mistrust has set in and never left. so there is no miracle solution. there are many things that we cannot control, which explains the situation we find ourselves in. the third point to consider is that many of you have stressed the relationship between responsibility and solidarity, and rightly so, because the first european council i chaired was precisely set up in this way. greece must take its responsibilities and we must be prepared to show our solidarity. my dear colleagues, we have shown great solidarity and we want to show it even more. we have agreed on 110 billion in bilateral loans for greece alone. we have created a temporary bailout fund of 500 billion guarantees. we have taken the decision and we will set the final terms for the permanent fund of at least 500 billion. we even said, "this time we will assess in march whether the 500 billion ceiling is sufficient". fourthly, we have just decided that we will raise about 200 billion in bilateral loans through the international monetary fund. if you count all those hundreds of billions of euros, yes, we are in solidarity. some people might even say we're too supportive. the central bank is not an instrument of solidarity. the central bank is an instrument of inflationary stability and of stability for the euro area. and the central bank has recently made and will make some extremely important decisions next week. we'll see later how important the decisions she made were. it has decided to provide liquidity for the banks, even over three-year periods. it's unheard of, but she did it as part of the stability. some of you have rightly spoken about the intergovernmental treaty and asked questions about it. as the president of the commission said earlier ... (the president declared the matter closed) as the president of the commission said earlier, our first choice was not an intergovernmental treaty. our first choice was to revise the treaty in different forms, protocol 12, other protocols, the ordinary method of changing treaties, the simplified method of doing so, secondary legislation. we had a whole range of legal instruments to achieve our objective. there was no unanimity. i can't help it, and i'm not gonna make a public argument about it. this would prevent us from sitting down again later to agree on a real change of the treaty, which would incorporate the acquis of the intergovernmental treaty. one day we will be meeting again at twenty-seven, so that everyone can agree on what could not be agreed a few days ago. we will do everything within the terms of the treaty. of course, the intergovernmental treaty must respect the treaty or treaties of the economic union. we will respect the acquis of the single market. that's all it takes! there will be no discrimination, no discrimination will be installed. the commission - and that is its natural role - will ensure that this happens. if possible, we will integrate the court of justice. article 273 allows for this. i answer mr schulz on the role of the european parliament, on which i have been very brief - i have been very brief on other subjects as well. i said that we would involve the european parliament in the work, of course, in the process of drawing up this intergovernmental treaty, as we have done in the past, as we will do in the line of the intergovernmental conferences in the past. more specifically, for the working group that will do the preparatory work, several members of the european parliament will of course be involved, as well as other members of the euro working group and other members who are involved in the joint effort to get a good intergovernmental treaty. i repeat, this is not our first choice, it is the second choice, but since this is the case, we will do everything to make it a step forward. economic policy is a matter of common interest. we have recalled this in the conclusions of our summit. there are mechanisms in the six-pack - some of you have spoken about this - that will be extremely important in economic coordination. macroeconomic surveillance is a major innovation in our policy infrastructure. as regards the euro plus pact, if we had been able to work faster on thursday and friday, we would have had a presentation by the president of the commission on the state of play, on the implementation of the euro plus pact. the papers are ready. unfortunately, we have not had time to have a very thorough discussion of this, but all the elements are on the table. the major economic reforms are in addition to everything that was decided in the six-pack, in the pact for the euro plus. we will discuss this at european summits, at the european council, so that some do not pursue a policy of increasing incomes or raising the retirement age while others are lagging behind. we must take the same approach at different levels and we must also be aware of this at the highest level. in many respects we cannot take an extremely important step forward. will this be the silver bullet again? no, i'm not going. but i'd like to say this. in a few years, when this crisis is over, because i am fundamentally optimistic, unlike some of you, we will see what has been achieved in 2010 and 2011. and much later it will be said that it was during these decisive years, these difficult years, that the foundations were laid so that this crisis would never happen again. we have changed the union profoundly. and what is now an annus horribilis will one day be considered an annus mirabilis. (applause) i would like to thank
president van rompuy, thank you for your concluding remarks. i would like to thank both presidents for attending our very deep and comprehensive discussion.
we're just having a very interesting discussion. i think all the comments that were made were part of a democratic open exchange of views. i wanted to make that very clear. we had our differences, we had our tough words at times, but it was within the norms of democratic debate, which i would never want to limit and i never did. thank you very much, we'll take a vote. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. – the outcomes of the recent eu summit of 8-9 december 2011 are partly satisfying. on the one hand i am pleased leaders took a firm decision to apply new fiscal rules to eu member states for tackling the euro area crisis. on the other hand, i deplore the fact that this agreement failed to include all 27 eu member states. in the new situation, reflected by the uk’s veto, many questions remain to be answered; for example what is the role of parliament in the new situation? what parts of the new eu treaty will apply, and to whom? how will the uk’s veto affect future discussions on plans to introduce eu-wide taxes? these questions must be resolved in order to end confusion and restore trust in the euro currency. so long as we do not have concrete answers speculators, who have played their share in provoking the euro crisis, continue making money by betting on the future of the euro area and the future of the eu. i remain hopeful that solutions can be found to these problems within the eu common framework, so as to avoid new divisions between eu member states and to preserve integration and trust – two essential features for the future of our union.
ladies and gentlemen! last week's european council was once again called the meeting of the last chance. analysts and journalists have been telling us all along that this is the last moment to make a decision to save the single currency. looking at the agreement from this perspective, one can feel disappointed. however, the compromise reached should be welcomed, as it can help member states to rebuild their public finances and thus save the single currency. the main shortcoming is that the proposed changes will not be incorporated into the treaties but will be adopted by intergovernmental agreement. the question arises as to what role the community institutions will play in the context of the fiscal union that is being established. we must do everything possible to keep the community institutions strong, for they alone safeguard the principles of solidarity and equality of nations. we cannot allow ourselves to be in a situation where we save the euro and lose the union. we must not forget that only the acquis communautaire and the institutions of the union guarantee the equal position of all the member states. despite the shortcomings of the agreement reached, he should be pleased that the agreed intergovernmental agreement is not limited to the euro area but is open to the other eu members. the six non-euro countries, including poland, decided to deepen their integration and once again showed that they are responsible for the whole community and that they want a europe that is strong at home.
in writing. the conclusions of the last european council are consistent with the demands repeated in this chamber since the beginning of the crisis and partly reinforce the economic governance instruments contained in the so-called six-pack. it is no longer in doubt among us that debt and budget deficits are a major threat to the stability of the functioning of monetary union and should be subject to a stricter control procedure at community level. the assumptions set out in the european council conclusions are to be seen as moving in the right direction, but not enough. the entry into force of these provisions will take place at the earliest in one year, which does not correspond to the need for rapid reform of the structures of the european union. the increase in the automaticity of sanctions, the requirement of ex ante control of national budgetary drafts, the strengthening of the imf rescue programme and the faster ratification of the esm treaty are all good ideas that are hardly unfair in the long term. however, the main source of uncertainty about the effectiveness of the fiscal pact is the unclear legal nature of the future agreement, including the definition of its position in the hierarchy of community law and, consequently, the extent to which it will be possible to benefit from the support of the european institutions. it is also concerned, above all, that the community method of regulation has been abandoned in favour of the intergovernmental method. the european institutions have therefore made another declaration to the financial markets on fiscal adjustment, leaving unanswered the question of the differences in competitiveness between euro area countries.
the next item is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
the chairman of the committee on budgets is asking us to vote now on certain amendments and modifications and interpretations which were adopted yesterday by the committee on budgets. i wanted to ask you first, is there anyone who would object to such a procedure? i see no objection to such a procedure. we therefore proceed to vote on the agreement submitted by mr lamassoure to the committee on budgets yesterday. (the oral amendment was adopted)
ladies and gentlemen, we will first vote on mr. auda's motion. the question was: should the vote be postponed? so, first, the request of mr. audy. (application is dismissed)
that concludes the point of the proceedings.
madam president! i abstained from the vote. the specific obligations on member states in relation to the administrative processing of residence and work applications can be extremely costly. in a situation where we are trying to save money, it does not seem right to impose new responsibilities leading to the creation of additional offices. nor, in my view, is there any need to harmonise the procedures for such applications throughout the community, particularly as the markets of the member states are not subject to harmonisation either. the regulations in force in the countries of the union perfectly reflect the need in these matters. i therefore also do not think it necessary to harmonise the rights of workers from outside the union. these issues are already regulated in some detail by european law. any social benefits should be activated at the legislative level of the individual countries, taking into account their interests.
madam president! the removal of various types of obstacles to international trade will help the european economy to develop. it is in the interest of union businesses, particularly in their relations with key partners, to reduce non-tariff barriers between them. i agree that this should be a clear trade policy priority in the europe 2020 strategy. at the same time, regulations that are beneficial to public health, such as those related to agriculture or to gmos, must be respected. i welcome the commission's commitment to take active action to reduce the constraints caused by non-tariff barriers and to facilitate access to foreign markets for european companies. the commission's activities in international cooperation fora such as the oecd and the wto should also be used in this regard. it also appears necessary to carry out regular information campaigns among union businesses on the elimination of barriers and changing trade restrictions in order to make international trade more efficient. that is why i support the report.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of resolution a7-0408/2011 on the right to information in criminal proceedings. this vital piece of legislation has taken two readings to come to the proper formula for european citizens. the resolution provides a common minimum standard with regard to the right to information in criminal proceedings throughout the european union. if correctly implemented, it will improve the rights of suspects and accused persons by ensuring that they receive information about their rights in their own language. we have developed this legislation to prevent citizens who are travelling in other member states from being unaware of what they are being accused of and thus allowing them a better opportunity to properly defend themselves. all citizens of the union are granted fundamental rights regardless of what member state they are in and should always have access to the proper information in their own language through all legal proceedings.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! i am pleased that the report presented here makes improvements to the process of creating better eu law, a process in which i have been personally involved for many years. in 2007, the european commission identified 42 regulations in 13 priority areas, representing some eur 115-130 billion in administrative costs. this was the basis for the action programme approved in march 2007 to reduce the administrative burden on european businesses by 25% by 2012. in addition, the european economic recovery plan called on member states and the eu to take immediate steps to reduce the administrative burden on smes and micro-enterprises. on 29 february 2009, the commission prepared a proposal to amend directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies. it was just the beginning of the improvements. today we need new solutions, and the ones proposed by the rapporteur, which introduce exceptions for micro-enterprises in accordance with the 'think small first' principle, are very appropriate. they should be justified by the fact that 93% of micro-entities in europe are not engaged in cross-border activities and therefore accounting harmonisation is not needed at their level. the remaining 7% are only able to produce such reports if their trading partners require it. i support the compromise amendment to article 1 proposed by the rapporteur which would exclude the exception of a micro-enterprise acquiring more than 10% of its overall profits from cross-border activities. they are good news for the 5.2 million or so micro-enterprises across the eu and a step in the right direction towards creating better and more citizen-friendly eu law.
in writing. - i would like to express my full support for the european parliament's recommendation for a second reading on the annual accounts of certain types of companies as regards micro-entities, which was voted on today. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and the polish presidency for their hard work and to congratulate them on reaching a compromise which is a clear step towards building a legal environment favourable to the activities of the smallest economic operators in the eu internal market. the increase in the annual net turnover and balance sheet total criteria will significantly increase the number of undertakings that can benefit from exemptions from certain accounting obligations. in the long run, this will lead to a reduction in the administrative burden for these entities, which will certainly translate into increased employment opportunities, focus on investment and the development of micro-enterprises. such action by parliament and the council is to be fully welcomed, especially in times of economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that financial assistance to member states where the use of eu funds is threatened by a lack of national resources, which is in turn caused by the financial crisis in europe, requires community intervention and assistance. the use of european funds is an important task for the countries of the union, but the lack of internal resources in the member states can jeopardise the implementation of programmes concerning the structural funds, the cohesion funds, the eafrd and the european fisheries fund. these actions will help countries with financial problems to implement these programmes. i believe that in this situation, an increase in the co-financing rate by the european union will make a positive contribution to the implementation of projects and thus have a positive impact on the economic recovery in these countries.
the next item is the joint debate on - the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the common security and defence policy (article 36 teu) (2010/2802 (rsp)) and - the report by mr krzysztof lisek, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sector in the eu member states (2011/2177 (ini)) (a7-0428/2011).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, can i begin by also thanking mr lisek for his report. as i said last night when i saw him, i come from the european defence agency where they too would wish me to express their thanks for the work that he has done. there is no debate about the common security and defence policy (csdp) this year that can ignore the financial crisis which has led to a wave of defence cuts across the european union. this has resulted in both the increased focus on pooling and sharing of military capabilities and in the current staff shortfalls we are experiencing in important csdp missions and operations. but the demand for the eu to do more and better is getting stronger. we need to be able to respond to the complex threats of today – crises from cyber-threats, energy security and others – and we need to assume our global responsibilities whilst showing real value for money. to deliver value for money we need csdp action to be based on coherent and effective strategies and a truly comprehensive approach and equipped with the right capabilities, as was restated in the foreign affairs council on 1 december. the budgetary constraints force us to save, but they are also a driver of closer collaboration; whether on pooling and sharing of defence assets, joint programming of development aid, or solidarity in the evacuation of european nationals from scenes of conflict or disaster. the message is clear: doing better with less. the 1 december foreign affairs council endorsed my call to maximise synergies and strengthen cooperation – complementing instead of duplicating each other. i am committed to ensuring that the actions by the external action service, the commission and the eu member states reinforce rather than compete with each other. at the meeting of 1 december, we also agreed that the eu needs to improve its operations by more clearly identifying needs and acting with clear objectives and clear exit strategies. the european parliament, alongside national parliaments and governments, plays an important role in ensuring the democratic oversight of eu foreign, security and defence policy, as recognised in my declaration on political accountability. i want to focus for a moment on some important achievements during the course of this year. at the level of structures, we have established the external action service and it is now equipped to deal with crises better, faster and smarter. when the service was launched in january 2011, the arab spring required our immediate response. in light of this experience, we have set up the crisis management board and crisis platform, which also dealt effectively with crisis situations in ivory coast, libya and the horn of africa. these structures are central to our capacity to respond, and maintain their direct reporting line to me while working closely with the rest of the service. we have also improved the early warning capacity through the situation room and the conflict prevention group and we are currently exploring how to strengthen the security policy expertise in eu delegations. all of this has been achieved using and restructuring the existing resources and improving their flexibility and efficiency rather than by seeking other expensive and complex solutions. we are turning a comprehensive approach into comprehensive action and i believe the external action service is uniquely placed for this. we can join up all of the instruments of the european union and cover conflict prevention, development and conflict resolution. we are putting this to full use in the horn of africa and in the southern neighbourhood. some people try and say that we are facing some sort of fatigue on csdp, yet this year has been a year of intensive work on this area, with concrete results, and ending with comprehensive and, i believe, forward-looking council conclusions. on military capabilities, the 30 november european defence agency steering board delivered concrete member states’ commitments in specific projects, including in areas where the libya crisis showed our shortfalls. this is a good first step towards more substantial achievements next spring, also in view of the nato chicago summit which i will attend. but as indicated by the honourable member mr lisek’s report, there is no alternative to cooperation in this area. multinational cooperation must become the rule rather than the exception in order to preserve and develop europe’s defence capabilities. i agree with what mr lisek says: pooling and sharing is a means of delivering enhanced capabilities and of offsetting defence budgets cuts. as the head of the european defence agency, i will continue to make every effort to facilitate cooperation among and between member states and to increase the global competitiveness and efficiency of the european defence industry. in july, i presented a comprehensive report on csdp. it set out the parameters for further work, both in terms of hardware – our military and civilian capabilities – and software – how we plan and conduct operations and engage with our partners. the foreign affairs council on 1 december welcomed my work to strengthen the csdp. member states’ initiatives, such as the weimar initiative and subsequent contributions, have provided an added impetus to work. i am pleased too that we found a pragmatic way forward on the issue of the planning and conduct of csdp operations. we are now beginning planning for the activation of the operations centre for the horn of africa operations by the next foreign affairs council in january. this will allow us to test this tool, with a view to strengthening civilian-military synergies and again to draw lessons for the future. i believe that we have achieved a lot of progress in working with our partners. in the area of security and defence, the relationship with nato is essential. it is recognised in the lisbon treaty, which is the first of the eu treaties to explicitly refer to nato. the breadth of eu instruments can be usefully combined with the depth of nato’s role on defence. the two organisations can and should reinforce each other’s work. i have worked hard to establish a good, close working relationship with nato secretary-general rasmussen, to bring the eu and nato closer through a pragmatic step-by-step approach, while maintaining the overall objective of a true organisation-to-organisation relationship. the libya crisis again showed clear need for this. we work hand in hand in many theatres, and we owe it to our people in the field. i am also pleased to confirm that on capabilities in particular – whether labelled pooling and sharing or smart defence – we have now achieved an unprecedented level of cooperation. the un remains, of course, a longstanding partner, and we are turning this partnership into reality: in theatres where both are or could be engaged, in afghanistan, somalia, kosovo and libya, and through our strategic dialogue. i have also personally engaged on security and defence with our strategic partners, not least regarding areas like the horn of africa or in libya. i signed a framework agreement with the united states of america in june on their participation in csdp civilian missions and already 60 us citizens under eu chain of command are operating in kosovo and afghanistan. i also want to foster closer cooperation with other partner countries, including contributors and the neighbours to the south and to the east. i would like to end my remarks with the possible way forward. i think we have to further operationalise the comprehensive approach, by better linking our conflict prevention, mediation, development and conflict resolution activities. csdp has a vital role to play in addressing forms of organised crime, such as trafficking of drugs, of weapons and of course of people. these are directly linked to conflict. for example, the security threats in the sahel also relate to the influx of weapons and militias as a result of changes in libya. on this the combination of all of the european union’s tools in a coherent strategy is absolutely essential. we have to pay constant attention to force generation and capabilities. the council undertook to make every effort to address this challenge and i will examine innovative ways to improve force generation in order to make proposals in the first half of 2012. force generation, by the way, means getting the right people in the right place. work on military capabilities should continue towards a systematic pooling and sharing, not only as an answer to financial constraints but also as means of enhanced operational effectiveness in the long term. we also have to enhance the effectiveness of missions and operations. the eu should act through csdp missions and operations to add value, on the basis of identified needs, with clear objectives and exit strategies to deliver and sustain results. as long as we can deliver on the existing missions, i am always ready to take forward work on possible new missions – in particular in regions of such strategic importance to europe’s security such as the sahel and libya. the common security and defence policy can only be as effective and ambitious as we let it be. it relies on collective political will and ambition to act. it also means that the cfsp budget should be able to respond to the financial aspects of force generation. the european parliament’s support in the last months has been essential on this, and i would like to take this opportunity to express to all of you my gratitude. i would like to close by thanking you for your support on the work on csdp, to reconfirm my continued commitment to csdp as an integral and indispensable part of the european union’s external action and, as i began, to once again thank mr lisek for his report.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? your highness! ladies and gentlemen! thank you for your kind and warm words about the report. i just wanted to say that this report is of course the result of a joint effort - not just my own work, but that of many members from the subcommittee on security and defence, the committee on foreign affairs, the shadow rapporteurs - with whom i have worked very well - and from this place, taking this opportunity, i would of course like to thank them all very warmly. i am pleased to hear from the high representative that you, the representatives of the member states and the representatives of the council have a great deal of understanding of the problem, the needs and everything that is connected with the common security and defence policy today. this policy is still a great challenge for us. i think the high representative and the council are aware that there is a lot of support in the european parliament, in the subcommittee on security and defence, in the committee on foreign affairs, for action to work together, joint action by member states to increase our effectiveness in security and defence. you all, i hope, know the statement - which was initially very critical - by the us secretary of defense robert gates about our security and defense capabilities. but that criticism was only there at the beginning, and then it turned out that many european politicians, and also many european officials, said, unfortunately, that the us secretary of defense was right on a large scale. we have a great challenge ahead of us both in terms of reform of the common security and defence policy and - of course - of good eu-nato cooperation. in particular, the european union should focus on finding synergies to optimise the budgets of its member states. the financial crisis that is being talked about in europe today is a global phenomenon and of course it also affects the defence sector. there is a general tendency for member states to reduce their defence spending, which is of course a cause for concern. it is true that maintaining defence spending in times of crisis, in the face of social needs, is not an easy task for governments, for politicians, but we believe - and i personally believe - that the area of security and defence, even in such a turbulent and difficult period for european finances, must not be neglected. in the report, i presented some ways to optimize spending, to show how we can spend the resources we have - even if they're a little bit smaller than they used to be - better, more appropriately, more efficiently. and of course what the high representative said is true the idea of pooling and sharing, of combining and sharing functions, is a necessity today. it'll cut down on the cost. we need to identify the most promising strategic projects in this area as soon as possible. certainly they should cover strategic transport, logistical support, medical assistance, education, aerial refuelling, maritime surveillance, protection and response to threats from chemical and biological weapons, radiology, satellite communications, intelligence. there are many areas where this idea of 'pooling and sharing' can be implemented effectively. the role of the european defence agency is not to be overestimated, as it should determine how we can best coordinate defence planning in europe. the other important issue that i raised is the issue of technological development. we also find a lot of negligence here. the report also addresses the issue of the defence equipment market, tenders and many other issues. all these issues require thought and i am very pleased that the high representative agrees that we should just get to work.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'll try to keep my speech shorter than i should to save some time. i would like to thank everyone for all the comments on the report, both positive and critical. nobody is perfect, as they say in a famous movie. if all the comments made by the member states are taken together, the next report could be written. so many interesting topics, important from the point of view of european defence, were raised. i realize that my report will not solve all the issues. my intention was simply to bring attention to these important issues related to the financial crisis, to look at the financial crisis in the field of defence from a new perspective, pointing out not only the risks but also the new opportunities. i am very pleased that the overwhelming majority of the countries supported the main points of my report. i think we can all agree that we can't afford to neglect safety. many journalists and colleagues in this house have asked me to whom this report is actually addressed, to whom we are addressing these messages. i think it is not addressed at all (excuse me, madam high representative), because the high representative has supported most of our proposals, but it is addressed primarily to the member states, to the governments and parliaments of the member states of the european union. and with these governments and parliaments of the member states of the european union, we should now, after the adoption of this report, - if that happens tomorrow - have a dialogue on this matter.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we welcome the document presented today. after 10 years, we are reviewing the union's policy on promoting human rights. at the same time, i would like to say that this is an important date for me, and for all poles, because today we celebrate the 30th anniversary of martial law in poland. solidarity was then outlawed, but at the same time it existed as a social movement and received enormous support from europe and the world, including material support. many of the points made here have already been endorsed by parliament in the véronique de keyser report. we want to see the idea that was supported in the véronique de keyser report, namely the idea of establishing a european fund for democracy, also mentioned in this communication. i did not find any reference to this idea in the communication presented, but i also know that you have been very effective in promoting this instrument with the polish foreign minister, mr radosław sikorski, among all the foreign ministers of the member states of the european union. this is what our partners in the struggle for democracy and human rights expect from the fund. the letter, which was addressed both to the high representative and to the president of parliament, mr buzek, was signed by many of the world's leading human rights figures, including aung san suu kyi, lech walesa and václav havel. i think that the efforts to establish the european endowment for democracy, its role, can help to achieve this more effective approach, as we read in the title of the communication on which we are starting the debate between parliament, the council and the european commission today.
in writing. two aspects are particularly important in the human rights debate: equality and social exclusion. human rights and equality: the idea of equality before the law is the daughter of the french revolution. today, it is recognized as a basic human right. although the law guarantees equality between women and men, its implementation in the eu is ineffective. in the european union, gender equality is only on paper. in reality, women are discriminated against socially, economically and politically. discrimination also affects minorities (sexual, ethnic, religious, racial), the disabled, the poor and the elderly. there is a widespread feeling of inequality and discrimination in europe. the only group that's not discriminated against are young, healthy, wealthy men. in poland, additionally, the catholic faith. human rights and exclusion: second generation human rights include economic, social and cultural rights. they provide what is called social security. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the union has aimed to combat social exclusion and discrimination. the question arises whether these rights in the eu constitute a guarantee against exclusion. the problem of exclusion affects 79 million people, or 16% of europeans, whose fundamental rights are constantly violated. in 2010, the union allocated eur 26 million to combat poverty and social exclusion. what have been the results? is the union capable of dealing with such a permanent violation of human rights?
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner for reminding russia to fulfil the commitments it has made to itself in relation to georgia, to fulfil this six-point plan called the 'sarkozy plan', and for that i thank you, and i ask you very much to keep an eye on this during the summit. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to the following point: there is political agreement on the objection to the undemocratic nature of the recent elections and on the need to help to awaken civil society in russia. this was reflected in the statements made by mr kelam of the epp, mr swoboda, mrs ojuland, mr schulz. and i would ask you to pay attention to that. the ecr is also of course determined on this point. he believes that this awakening of civil society requires our support, and only on this condition will russia be what we would like it to be, that is, our important economic partner and our important political partner. i encourage you to do so and you have the support of the whole house.
in writing. a week ago, the european parliament voted on a report on the extension of the visa-free zone between the kaliningrad oblast and poland. i hope that this will be the beginning of a path towards further opening up of the kaliningrad region to europe, which will only be possible if it is fully demilitarised. it should be noted that this territory is still being used by russia as a military leverage against the european union and nato. in recent weeks, the kremlin has reported the deployment of iskander missiles. since december 2010, it has also been developing radar systems for the tracking and flight control of ballistic missiles. the missiles from the perimeter pose a significant threat to the security of the countries of central and eastern europe, and their importance in the framework of russia's strategic protection, as presented by the russians, is small. therefore, the issue of demilitarization of the kaliningrad region should necessarily become one of the topics of discussion at the next summit. it is also important to raise the issue of free flow through the playa strait and the attempts by the russian side to restrict the existing law of harmless flow in this category of straits.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? today is a very happy day for all those who have spent the whole year wondering how europe should shape its relations with its close neighbours. we have a report ready, which was prepared in a very special year. it was a year when from all over the world, one big slogan was heard: change, change, change. a call for democracy, a call for a better life, a call for the values that are so close to the european union. the european neighbourhood policy was once designed as a consolation prize for those who are close but will never be in the european union. both those who are close to us, such as those across the mediterranean, and those who live in the east, who were once part of the soviet empire. everything has changed in the meantime, first of all the attitude of the people living in these countries, but also the attitude of the european union towards these countries. we understood that the politics of empty gestures, the politics of hypocrisy, the politics of maintaining relations with regimes that have managed to be stable, but that stability turned out to be illusory, just doesn't make sense. investing in fiction, investing in dictatorships, has proven to be completely unnecessary. this year, a powerful voice has been heard from the people of north africa, who are demanding freedom, democracy, who want to fight for values. earlier, a few years ago, the same voice was heard from the maidan in kiev. millions of ukrainians came out to maidan and demanded the same thing that people in africa are demanding today. so what is this new neighbourhood policy being developed by the european commission (and here is great respect for the work of commissioner füle, who is sitting in a seat reserved for the commission)? it is above all an integral policy towards the east and north africa. why is it integral? when it comes to freedom, democracy, tolerance, there is no geographical division, people are (we believe this deeply) the same. they want to live with dignity in ukraine, azerbaijan, tunisia and egypt. this new policy is based on values that are dear to us, it's based on the struggle for democracy, for freedom. it gives a chance to people who want to fight for those values. sometimes this fight will be long. this is a policy that is people-oriented. we want to create the foundation of this new policy, of this new relationship, first of all by building the conviction of the public - through contacts with ngos, with the elites, with the media - that we want to give these people a chance to convince themselves and their loved ones that this is the way to look at it and the way to look at the european union as an institution that supports these values. we assume that the pace of change will be determined by the countries themselves. we're talking about the fact that the whole concept of benchmarks is, you do whatever you want, and we'll help you. the principle of 'more for more', as mário david rightly said, also means 'less for less'. you can take from someone to add to someone. so today is the big day. everything that is important to us, to the european union, to the countries that have gained their freedom, becomes an offer to those who live near us. we can complain and say that there is still a lot to do in the east and in north africa, that we are dissatisfied with the situation in azerbaijan, in armenia, that we can improve the policy in georgia and in ukraine, that we can say that moldova is making progress, and that there is still a lot to do in egypt and tunisia, but it is important that we make sure that things are going in the right direction. mario, thank you for your cooperation, we wrote this report together. i thank the commissioner for the important content of his communication. thank you to all who helped us, the members of parliament, to put these wise words into words.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - what are you doing? strengthening the regional dimension of the european neighbourhood policy is one of the european union's priorities for the coming years. further strengthening of the two regional dimensions of the european neighbourhood policy southern and eastern should be an integral part of the same flagship policy and should be balanced between them. the adoption of a euro-mediterranean energy efficiency strategy, the promotion of euro-mediterranean interconnections in electricity, gas and oil, the development of a low-carbon economy, efficient waste management and nuclear safety are further elements of the intensification of the dialogue to enhance the security of energy supply. the european union should certainly commit itself to building closer cooperation in research, development and education to create a common area of knowledge and innovation. the decision by the european commission to allocate additional financial resources to the neighbourhood policy seems to be fully understandable. support should be channelled to the needs of the leaders of change and conditional on real progress and ambition in moving towards the european union.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - what are you doing? the situation in the countries neighbouring the european union is changing dramatically. and our policies should also be adapted to these changes, they should evolve. new governments, new structures are emerging in north africa. east of the european union, we have a negative development, democracy is dying or never existed. the belarusian authorities have no respect for human rights, and in ukraine they neglect these values. so the european union has to change its approach, we have to increase cooperation at the regional level. local authorities have a better understanding of how to use eu programmes to benefit citizens. and that is why we should strengthen cross-border cooperation and fully integrate border regions into our regional development and neighbourhood policies. union funds should be transferred from central national budgets to regional programmes. in this way, they will not be held hostage to national policies that do not always work and do not often develop as we want them to.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we used to use the term "stabilization" a lot when we talked about our neighbors. the term "stabilization" should be a shame to us today, because "stabilization" was often a concern for our sacred peace, for our well-being. very often, the concept of 'stabilisation' was not accompanied by a genuine desire for dialogue with the societies of our neighbours or those of the european union. it is very good that the siwiec and david report has moved away from this concept of 'stabilisation'. it is very good that the term 'stabilisation' is not a constant word on the lips of commissioner füle, who is listening to us. because we should be talking about integration. it will not always be integration in the sense of rapid accession to the european union. in many countries, that may not be possible. i would now like to turn to our neighbours to the east. there we really have to talk about reunification with europe, there we have to talk about integration, knowing that it is a very difficult and long road. we must be realistic, but we must forget about stabilisation, because too often in our eu language stabilisation has meant support for regimes, and we should take a look at that today. i am therefore pleased that there is more money for the neighbourhood policy in the new budgetary perspective, but i would like to ask the commissioner and all those who have an influence on it to put money into this instrument, the european endowment for democracy, which is to be the fruit of the polish presidency, and to make it clear that this money will be there. it is a concrete instrument that shows that we want to integrate especially the younger generation. and that is why we need to talk today about a new breath of the eastern partnership, we need to talk today about some great enterprise maybe it should be the eastern partnership university? we must do this, we must send a signal today that despite the internal problems, despite the crisis in the union, we are able to propose something new. that's what our neighbors need today, especially the younger generation. if we forget that today, there will come a time when we will need their support in one or another matter, and they will feel that they have been rejected in a difficult moment for them.
madam president! cooperation under the european neighbourhood policy currently covers two main areas: the mediterranean basin and the eastern partnership countries. i would like to focus on this second area, which has been pushed aside a little by recent events in north africa. the report we are discussing today is particularly welcome for the need to maintain a reasonable balance between east and south. this is important because the eastern partnership countries have a real prospect of joining the european union and are in the process of implementing programmes and reforms that are part of the association agreements currently being negotiated. the 'more for more' mechanism proposed by the external action service and the european commission is also a good solution, which, if used carefully, will provide an additional important incentive for our partners to further change and bring their legal systems closer to european standards. this also includes respect for human rights and fundamental values. the impact of the epc on regional development is also worth highlighting, as the strengthening of the eastern partnership will be crucial for the development of the eu's border regions.
madam president! i would like to congratulate members mark siwc and mário david on the preparation of this comprehensive report. i agree with the rapporteurs that it is particularly important to create and support the development of civil society structures. however, the financial resources for this purpose should be appropriately distributed and should reach not only the governments of neighbouring countries but also non-governmental organisations and all levels of society in order to optimise their use and achieve real results. i would also like to express my satisfaction that the efforts to promote the development of democracy in neighbouring countries have been reflected in the global europe project proposed by the european commission in the context of the new multiannual financial framework. the commission is allocating over eur 96 billion to this project, of which eur 18 billion is for the eu's neighbourhood policy, which represents an increase of 50%, which we welcome.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? this discussion was like the wind in the sails of this new policy. the whole debate in the european parliament has been a wind in the sails of the changes that are taking place there, and we are part of those changes. we are participants in the better world they want to build, and we are building a piece of the better world for ourselves. 400 amendments were submitted to this project. we've consumed those amendments in our project. we are in a reality where tens of hundreds of members of national parliaments come to the european parliament. we're talking to each other. we go to them, but this dialogue is as intense as it's ever been. the dialogue sometimes takes on such extraordinary forms as commissioner füle's visit to the prison of yulia tymoshenko yesterday. we thank you for this visit, because you have shown us that we can be with this woman in her difficult situation at this special time. did we write the bible? no, we didn't write the bible. we wrote a cookbook, and you can choose from the dishes, like any good cookbook, but in order for there to be dishes, there has to be a cook, there has to be products, and there has to be people who will eat those dishes. let's hope it's a cookbook of good dishes that everyone will enjoy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the group of european conservatives and reformists, i support the directive. i join in congratulating the rapporteur, the commission and the polish presidency for successfully completing this difficult task. it is good to see that we are taking a major step towards improving food quality - juices are an important part of the food supply and that we are improving their quality, but also that we are introducing higher requirements for consumer information, these are steps in the right direction. this is an area where the european union is doing a lot, but can and should do even more. we should do everything we can to ensure that the quality of food is as good as possible and, above all, that the consumer is informed correctly and honestly about what he is eating. those objectives have been achieved in this directive. it was not easy, because, as my colleagues have said in their speeches, there were conflicting interests to reconcile. the search for a compromise has been long and arduous, but the fruits of that work can be a source of satisfaction. my group will of course vote in favour of this directive. once again, congratulations on the success of this work. thank you, sir.
in writing. there is still a lot of uncertainty in the fruit juice market. when consumers choose juice, they are not entirely sure whether it is made from squeezed fruit or from ready-made concentrate. another misinterpreted term is the word 'nectar', the definition of which, as the rapporteur himself points out, is not fully agreed upon even among producers. and sugar information is absolutely essential, especially for people with health problems. uniformity of labelling and clear consumer information on the product are of paramount importance. another issue to be addressed is the increase in the consumption of locally produced juices. over 80% of europe's consumption is imported from across the atlantic. of course, our citrus fruits are not as beautiful and ripe as those from brazil, but they are excellent for making juice. if we want to ensure food safety in the eu and help protect the environment by reducing co2 emissions from transport, we should strongly support the european fruit juice market.
i have two sad tidings to start with. in florence yesterday, a gunman shot two people. the crime was most likely racially motivated. once again, people have died simply because they wanted to live and work in europe. it's sad and scary. we must firmly oppose any attempts at racism and xenophobia. yesterday, we also received some sad news from belgium. the tragedy in liège has affected innocent people by chance. on behalf of the european parliament, i offer my condolences to the families of the victims. we're with you in our thoughts and prayers. i think there's also one of our colleagues from liège, mathieu grosch. i'm afraid he's not here. once again, we are with you in our thoughts and prayers.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the balance sheet of the polish presidency. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to mr donald tusk, prime minister of the government of the republic of poland and president-in-office of the european union, who is also holding the presidency of the council of the european union. mr. prime minister, i'll start by quoting from your speech five months ago in july. this is a passage about the european parliament: 'the european parliament is something special for all europeans who take the idea of europe seriously, it is a guarantee of our active memory of the origins of europe, it is above all an institution and a place where faith in the meaning of a united europe has never been lacking'. we're six months into the polish presidency. we felt that you were convinced that it was possible to work with the european parliament and to achieve benefits for the people of the european union. we are very interested in your assessment and your opinion of the past six months and what the polish presidency learns from this for the future. we would ask you very kindly to speak.
acting president of the council. - thank you very much, mr president! ladies and gentlemen! it's been six months since we met at the beginning of the polish presidency. i declared then the great attachment of the poles, and myself, to the idea of a united europe. i have declared my commitment to the european community, knowing that we are assuming the presidency in a time of great crisis. not only a financial crisis, but - as we already predicted then - also a crisis of confidence, and today - i think it is necessary to say this strongly - perhaps also a systemic and political crisis. our presidency - although we were a country making our debut in this presidency, and perhaps that is why - was a presidency of people determined to do their european jobs to the best of our ability. we have brought not only goodwill but also the work and skills of hundreds of young poles who have worked here in strasbourg, brussels, warsaw and many other places in europe into this presidency, and we have undertaken - with awareness of our capabilities - the tasks that are the routine responsibility of any presidency, including legislative tasks. i'm not going to go through everything we've done in the last six months. i've heard a lot of warm words in the last few days about our commitment and our effectiveness. it may sound immodest, but i think the poles deserve these words precisely because they worked with such faith in the sense of a common europe on these challenges that fell to the polish presidency. whether it was the work on the six-pack, the accession of croatia, the eastern partnership, energy security or other legislative acts such as the common european patent, we have succeeded in bringing our commitments to the final stage, in completing our work. mainly because the polish presidency was led by people who really take europe as a community seriously and who - despite the crisis, or perhaps i should say it differently: precisely because we have a crisis, also a crisis of confidence - wanted to show that the responsibilities and commitment of the european should be even more pronounced and determined at a time like this. i would like to turn this summary into one of the serious political reflections that have emerged from the experience of the polish presidency over the last six months. but i am convinced that you too share the same thoughts and the same need to give a name to what is happening in europe today. because despite the satisfaction i get from the work i do, i cannot say that europe at the end of 2011 is a more united europe than it was six months ago, a year ago or five years ago. i cannot say today, as i leave the polish presidency, that we have jointly avoided what is perhaps the most serious crisis in the history of a united europe, which is afflicting our continent. i'll say the opposite. today, we have to say this very openly to ourselves: we are at a crossroads. we have a very serious choice to make: during this crisis, in search of ways and means of overcoming it, will we follow the community's way, will we seek a european way out of the crisis, or will we follow the path of national and state egos, selfishly seeking a way out for each individual and considering the community as a ballast and not as the best way for europeans to overcome the crisis? i want to remind you that the real sources of the crisis, the financial crisis, are not the community institutions. it was not the european parliament, not the european commission, not the other community institutions that created the financial crisis. it is not european integration that is the source of the financial crisis and, therefore, of the political crisis. these six months have shown us with all their force that it is exactly the opposite - that this crisis is fed by, and is fattened by, the threat of the community's collapse, that if today we cannot say that we have overcome the crisis, it is because europe has not always behaved like a community in the face of this crisis. (applause) why are we talking about a political crisis today? because too many people in europe, too many politicians in europe want to convince us and want to convince europe that the way out of the crisis is to move away from community action. i want to say that in my and the polish presidency's opinion, it is a sign of a certain disease. this current crisis is violating that sense of community. if we hear in europe today that the foundations of the community need to be revised, it is clearly a sign that the crisis is in our hearts too, not just in our banks. the last european council summit showed very clearly that some are looking for tools to not only save the euro but also to strengthen the community in the long term, but that there are others who believe that the way to save the euro or the financial situation of the states and institutions is to loosen the community and ultimately destroy it. i'm not accusing anyone, because they're equals. everyone may have his own view of the future of europe, but we cannot hide the fact that today, somewhere under the surface, the debate is not about the future of the euro but about the future of the community. at the last european council we took decisions which are only the first step. i have been trying to convince everyone, both in brussels and in my own country, that if we are not fully satisfied with this summit, it is because we have taken only one step, that we still lack the full determination to take the next steps quickly and decisively within the community and for the community. when i hear some comments - i am sure they are made in good faith, and i do not blame anyone for the ill will - filled with the satisfaction that britain is an island again, that the english channel is wider than it was a few weeks ago, i must say frankly that i do not understand that satisfaction. (laughter) we cannot accept the decisions of politicians in one country or another, but we cannot publicly celebrate the fact that we are witnessing the growing distance between the member states, in this case between the united kingdom and the european community. but i also want to say that there were other comments, too, like that one capital city won against other capitals. we know that europe needs strong political leadership not only for this crisis, but also for the future. at the last european council and over the last six months, i have witnessed this as yet unnamed but great european debate: will the political leadership of europe be the result of ruthless competition between nation states, and will this competition result in the domination of one or two or three capitals over the others, or will the political leadership of europe be community leadership for the benefit of the community as a whole? it is very important that we can conclude each subsequent meeting with the conviction that the community is winning against selfishness, and not that someone is winning against someone in this disintegrating community. (applause) i also want to say, after these six months, that europe needs a common conscience. we can't point fingers today and say, "oh, that's where the crisis is coming from", or, "oh, that poor country in the south is causing all of our problems". we also need to share responsibility for the future. northern europe, which prides itself on its discipline, must also begin to understand better the need for solidarity. and the south of europe must understand that shared responsibility also means more discipline. we must also make it very clear that the source of the crisis, not only financial but also political, is the breach of our mutual obligations, including those arising from the treaties, and that these breaches are not a matter of recent months. let each one make his own examination of conscience. let each of us reflect on when he started to break the maastricht treaty. let each one of us consider whether he is ready to cherish the schengen arrangements. (applause) we - those of us who are in favour of a truly integrated community europe - must say very clearly to ourselves today that we need more determination to protect the foundations of europe, not constant debate about the revision of the foundations of europe. i would therefore like to conclude the polish presidency by also appealing to all european leaders without exception to make this effort to strengthen the community, starting with themselves, and not to seek methods of disintegration, exclusion or division in europe. so today, let's say it again: we are for integration, against disintegration. (laughter) we are against the division of europe into better and worse, and we are for the growing political unity of europe. we are for responsibility, shared responsibility against selfish irresponsibility. we are against exclusion because the community must rely on solidarity even when sometimes one person is worse off and another is better off. we need real political leadership, because europe deserves to make decisions quickly, not only about the current financial crisis, but also about the future. the crisis has proved to be a great test of the community's ability to function. we need to start a serious conversation about greater political efficiency in europe. there will be other crises, other conflicts in the future. this crisis has shown us - and it's really good that it has - that europe as a community doesn't always react quickly, because there is a lack of trust - on this fundamental foundation - in the institutions we have set up. this leadership cannot be the leadership of one, two or three of the most powerful states, nor can it be the leadership of technocrats, because they have no democratic mandate. this leadership must be political, it must have a democratic mandate, it must be accepted by all in order to be able to enforce the obligations of all. it must be leadership based on european institutions. (laughter) i want to say that just as we need quick decisions in the coming hours, days and weeks to save the euro and stabilise the euro area, we also need an honest, robust debate on the new political order of europe. today not everyone accepts the community order and we cannot continue to deceive ourselves today we cannot enforce the rules we ourselves once established. today, when we're comfortable, we're avoiding treaty obligations. so let's be honest: we need a very deep, serious debate on the political structure of europe that will give europe a community leadership. so the motto of our presidency, 'more europe in europe', has a political dimension too. i believe that the european parliament is that place, and do not let it take away from you this obvious historical and political mandate. this is the place that should become the constitution for europe. nothing will be the same as it was before the crisis. (laughter) the status quo ante bellum is not an option. europe will certainly be different after this crisis. it's just a question of whether it's going to be broken or more integrated. she's not gonna be the same. that is why the european parliament - because you have a democratic mandate - should, i think, take on this great commitment, this great challenge - should become such a modern constituent for this newly emerging europe. because we are seeing a new europe emerge. let us do everything we can to make europe united, not divided. this deep reflection can't be a decoration, like it was in the past. we had groups of sages, we had task forces, committees. everyone knew that this reflection had to be made for the future. but the seeds of a new order have not been planted, and the crisis has shown this with all its clarity, with all its power. it is not about thousands and tens of thousands of new laws, it is about restoring the balance between what is national and what is community, about rebuilding trust on the basis of a few, a dozen or so clear principles - principles that we all accept, and principles that we can enforce against those who want to break them. this is a key task, i believe, also for the european parliament as the modern constituent body that will build the foundations of a new political order. it's not about scaring each other, the crisis scares people enough. but if we fail to do this, future generations will curse not only the crisis, but us as well. today we will fight for the future of europe, or tomorrow we will mourn for it. thank you, sir. (laughter)
i thank you, mr prime minister, for your speech, for summing up the activities of the polish presidency and, above all, for presenting to us the most important slogans and tasks that europe faces in the future, as well as those that face the european parliament as the directly elected representation of 500 million europeans. thank you very much once again, prime minister, president-in-office of the council.
president of the commission. − mr president, mr prime minister, honourable members, i would like to begin by saying straight away that the polish presidency of the council has delivered very significant achievements under very difficult circumstances. the polish presidency has worked with great professionalism and enthusiasm. exactly 30 years after the introduction of martial law, poland has shown during this presidency its commitment to europe, to democracy and to our common values. i am sure that everybody remembers prime minister tusk’s inspiring speech here in this house six months ago. that speech came from the heart: a true act of faith in europe and a strong appeal for more european integration. what you just said, prime minister and dear friend, about the community spirit and the need to fight narrow national interests and egotism, and your support, without doubt, to strong european institutions is very inspiring and a great source of strength for us in these difficult times. six months later, we can say that poland has lived up to its reputation and the polish presidency to our expectations. the polish presidency has held up the spirit of partnership between the european institutions and the member states. poland has constantly pushed for more europe to address efficiently a crisis that has not only a financial and economic dimension but also, above all, a political one. there is just, as prime minister tusk mentioned, a problem of confidence and of trust. let me highlight some of the concrete points we worked on throughout the presidency. first, a strong europe: a more stable europe that can withstand all kinds of weather. a europe that can learn from its own mistakes and can also address its weaknesses, building its recovery on sound and sustainable foundations. we have laid the foundations on which any further reforms will be built. the adoption of the legislative package on strengthening economic governance – the ‘six-pack’ – has significantly reinforced the stability and growth pact. it puts more emphasis on debt limitations and extends the commission’s surveillance to macroeconomic imbalances. now we need to combine words with actions so that we can reinforce this stability culture. yesterday the ‘six-pack’ entered into force. it will put the commission at the heart of ensuring fiscal discipline, in line with the position of this parliament. we will accept this increased responsibility knowing that its democratic legitimacy derives precisely from this house. to complete this set of tools, we have come up with two article 136 proposals on further strengthening economic governance, and more proposals will come to bring the new fiscal compact as much as possible into our existing union framework. a strong europe is also a europe that is able to recreate the conditions for growth and job creation; as i said yesterday during the debate, we need stability but we also need growth. that is why our 2012 annual growth survey puts a strong emphasis on the need for implementation of growth-enhancing actions, and i welcome the support for our fast-track programme for measures with a significant impact on growth and jobs. this includes the proposals on the single market act. during the polish presidency we have taken key decisions to prepare the relaunch of economic growth, through the development and strengthening of the single market, notably on the e-economy. i would also like to mention the very good progress made in the negotiations on the unitary patent, which showed the energy and constructive approach needed. i call on the member states quickly to resolve among themselves the one outstanding issue: the seat of the litigation court under the intergovernmental agreement.growth is also about green growth, energy security and the fight against climate change, and we are moving forward on all these fronts. the commission has already tabled proposals on completing the internal energy market, boosting energy efficiency, enhancing the coherence and coordination of our external energy policy and improving nuclear safety. let me emphasise in particular the commitment of poland to reinforcing the external dimension of the energy policy that has been adopted by the energy council. on the fight against climate change, durban was certainly not a perfect agreement, but in the difficult circumstances we can say that it achieved some important results; in spite of all the scepticism it was possible to make progress, with all major emitters agreeing for the first time to have a new comprehensive and binding legal instrument, which will include limits on co2 emissions. this was only possible because of the leadership from the european union, and i am particularly proud of the role that the commission has played in this matter. we will now continue our efforts with our international partners to flesh out a new global climate agreement involving all countries as quickly as possible, and we will no doubt have a strong partner in this parliament. the polish presidency has also put a lot of energy into defending a united europe, and you have just heard the inspiring words of prime minister tusk. together with the commission, the polish presidency has been a strong advocate of the preservation of the coherence and the integrity of the european union. what we need is more integration, not fragmentation. what we need is to consolidate our acquis and not to weaken what we have achieved over the last 60 years. what we need to do is to tap the full potential of the single market, not to damage it. what we need is more union, not a désunion.(applause) this is exactly what the community method guarantees. it enables us to join forces in the general interest. it reinforces our solidarity and our cohesion. let me tell you very frankly that it was not insignificant that the discussions about the reinforcement of the euro area took place during the polish presidency, because poland, whilst supporting very clearly a stronger economic governance of the eurozone, was also making clear that this stronger governance of the eurozone must not be to the detriment of the overall objectives of our union. this was particularly important. i want to say the same thing regarding the next presidency. we are, i hope, going to continue to conclude the negotiations for this new fiscal compact during the danish presidency of the council. with the very constructive position taken by the prime minister of denmark, i am hopeful that we can conclude these negotiations with a stronger euro area and stronger governance but, at the same time, also with a stronger union, because that is exactly what we need. the last point i would like to make before concluding is about open europe: united but also open europe. since the early days of european integration, our openness to the world and our attractiveness to our neighbours and to newcomers has always been one of our greatest strengths. over these last six months we have done a lot to advance our relations with our neighbours. first, good progress has been made with enlargement countries on the european integration of the western balkans. last friday we were happy to witness the signature of the accession treaty of our 28th member state – croatia – which will join in july 2013. this should constitute an incentive for the rest of the region to keep to the path of european reforms. the successful summit with our eastern neighbours hosted by the polish presidency in warsaw confirmed our ambition to create the necessary conditions to accelerate political association and further economic integration between the european union and interested partner countries within our enhanced neighbourhood policy. association agreements are being negotiated with four of the six eastern partners and deep and comprehensive free trade areas with three of them. this monday we started further negotiations with georgia and moldova. i will be travelling to kiev next monday, as we seek to conclude an association agreement with ukraine. this house has called for the conclusion of the negotiations by the end of the year. the ukrainian authorities need, however, to demonstrate that they abide by the principles and values that underpin this agreement, namely respect for democracy, the rule of law, human rights and judiciary independence. the establishment of the european endowment for democracy, an innovation also introduced by poland, will greatly enrich the range of instruments at our disposal to support the process of democratisation and consolidate the aspirations of those fighting for freedom, including in places in our neighbourhood where democracy and rule of law needs to be encouraged. finally, i will travel to warsaw tomorrow – once again – where i will participate in european development day, a commission initiative, this time in cooperation with the polish presidency. this shows clearly that, even in times of crisis, the european union does not forget about the need to show solidarity to developing countries and to the most poor of the world. as you remember, some time ago when we had this enlargement, there were some suspicions in the developing world that the fact that europe was enlarging showed that it conferred less interest and importance to the south of our planet. this did not happen; on the contrary, we are reinforcing our commitments to the developing world. as i said, these were considerable achievements under difficult circumstances. but this crisis is not behind us, and we have a lot of work ahead. as we move forward, i would like all member states to show the same level of commitment to europe as poland has shown. (applause) the polish presidency will be a tough act to follow. the challenge ahead will now be with our danish friends. in conclusion, let me very sincerely thank prime minister tusk, all his team and his government, the team dedicated to the presidency, for your leadership, your strong european commitment and your political courage. i think this was a great example for all the member states which are committed to a stronger european union. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, prime minister, i have to tell you something. i would like to be able to speak well of the polish government's actions and its foreign policy in this house, but unfortunately the six months of polish presidency do not give me that opportunity. i felt it was a weak presidency, a backward one, not ambitious. the presidency, which from the outset has assumed the very wrong assumption that we will only be able to administer the european union as poland, will not propose any ambitious objectives to either ourselves or the european union, even those relating to the equalization of agricultural subsidies in the european union. it is well known that the disparities are very large and poland as an agricultural country should deal with this issue in a special way. i wish it had. we have also been passive as the polish presidency in the context of the crises that have taken place in recent months - the arab spring of the peoples, the war in libya. i remind you that it was not poland, but france that organized the european summit on this issue. the financial crisis it was not poland, but germany that organized the european summit on this issue. the eastern partnership, which met in poland, was a complete failure. there was no conclusion. polish diplomacy, instead of drawing conclusions from the eastern partnership summit in poland, was engaged in an election campaign. but there is something that has cast a bitter spell over last week's eu summit in brussels. poland's tacit acceptance of these proposals, contrary to common sense, the logic that poor, weak, poor member states will pay to save the eurozone. ladies and gentlemen, prime minister! this is a mistake, this is something that shouldn't have happened. you had no right to remain silent on this matter, you as the leader of the polish presidency should have said "no" firmly. our neighbours, the new member states, were waiting for this. you have not had a voice, a strong voice of opposition to this matter. but to say no to the european union, you need courage, strength, determination. we must be strong in defending polish interests, but also the interests of the new member states. i say this with regret and regret that you lack that determination, that courage. unfortunately, the polish presidency and you, mr. prime minister, after these six months, you will be remembered as such. (the speaker agreed to answer the question put in accordance with the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr poręba whether he has read the document entitled declaration of the heads of state and government of 29-30 september in warsaw. i know it's a long document and it was in a foreign language at first, so it was a little bit difficult. it consists of 29 points. there is a point there that says that there is a certain road map when it comes to getting visa-free access for the eastern partnership countries, and in particular it mentions ukraine and moldova as countries that are leaders in this area. does the ambassador also consider this a failure of the summit? (laughter)
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the implementing acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. mr ambassador, you are a specialist in ad person attacks, so out of respect for you and for this house, i will not argue at this point, but i assure you that i have read the document and i assure you that as far as foreign languages are concerned, i have no problem with it.
mr president, prime minister, please! it is here in the european parliament, which was the scene of this visible part of the polish presidency, that presidency began, continued in the person of your ministers, mr prime minister, and now it ends. it had ambitious priorities: a dynamic economy, an open union to its neighbours and new members, and security in military and energy terms. i think life has confirmed the accuracy of these priorities, but it has also created very difficult conditions for their implementation. there have been changes in the southern and northern neighborhoods, there has been a sharp financial crisis, a debt crisis and an economic crisis, in other words, a positive explosion outside, in the south, an implosion inside. the polish presidency - and you, mr prime minister, personally - have held the helm of the european ship with a steady hand and have not allowed this european ship to be cut in half. new dilemmas have arisen: first, the structure of the european union emerging from the crisis: more community europe or more intergovernmental selfishness? the polish presidency gave a clear indication and diagnosis: 'more community'. the second dilemma is how to avoid a split and a two-speed europe. we have started the polish presidency of the 17+10 union. we're ending it in the union 27 over 1. i think this is the most valuable result of the end of our presidency. the aim was to defend the unity, the solidarity of the european union. the polish presidency concludes with the message that the answer to external and internal challenges is more of the community method, a community, a more responsible europe. i think that your gdansk maxim, 'boldly but prudently', has also proved true in the european context, mr prime minister. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, prime minister tusk, i have to tell you something. the polish presidency was, of course, a difficult period, even one full of dramatic moments. after the hungarian presidency and your predecessor, prime minister orbán, you brought a fresh atmosphere, a belief in the european project - indeed, even european enthusiasm. you have also brought responsibility and an atmosphere of european solidarity. we must accept that the polish presidency was an active presidency, that the polish presidency played the role of the european presidency. there have been hundreds of meetings of working groups, committees, conferences. the routine work was just going well. on european affairs, mr prime minister, you have the support of the left in poland and also of the left here in the european parliament, as president schulz's speech is the best proof of. the presidency began with the promise of a major effort to restore confidence, increase cohesion, and tackle the major challenges by taking the community approach. and as time went on, it turned out that it was a little less possible than expected. it turns out that the government's selfishness is the obstacle. i share jacques sarkozy-wolski's view that it may turn out that the success of the presidency will be that we will have found the eu at 17+10 and will leave the eu at 27. but, mr prime minister, the presidency has not seen new initiatives to create new jobs, a european-wide social policy to increase the economic security of families, or progress on the financial transaction tax or eurobonds. so, in summary, there was good will, a lot of effort, and as a result, there's a lot to do. could you have done more in six months? i'm not sure.
mr president, prime minister, please! i'm torn between pride and disappointment today. pride at the fact that poland and the pole held the presidency, disappointment at the results of this presidency. you had a unique opportunity to write an effective presidency for poland in the context of effective pan-european solutions, as your predecessors did. you could have initiated a discussion on the unification of direct subsidies for agriculture. there is no reason why a polish farmer should have to pay 150 euros less per hectare than a german farmer for the next few years. the polish countryside will lose billions of euros in the coming years. you could have proposed a suspension, a cancellation of the climate package due to the crisis in europe, which is the climate package in its current form will cause electricity prices in poland to increase by 100% within 8-10 years. you could have initiated the discussion and put shale gas on the european energy solidarity wheel guaranteeing the development of our country and the energy security of europe. you didn't do any of those things. this will result in billions of euros of losses for our country and the historical responsibility for this will fall on you. in return, you proposed a change in the architecture of europe and a change in the rules, moving away from a community of equal nations to the dictates of the great powers, which your minister, in a specific tribute in berlin, asked to lead europe. i wanted to remember your presidency as a great success for poland in a fair europe. i remember that you organized a rally among polish pensioners, workers and pensioners to save the eurozone, from whose meetings your minister was expelled a few months ago. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i don't think the colleagues from kurski, poręba and ecr understand what the presidency was and is all about. the presidency is not the time to deal with national affairs and interests. the presidency is a period in which european affairs are dealt with, in which solutions are found, reconciliations are made, and things are built up. and poland has made various proposals here, and has been extremely active, as this discussion today confirms. i don't think you're hearing it, gentlemen, as if you've come from another planet, the planet of the written word or the not-written word.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the implementing acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. i'd be happy to answer, professor. i would like to recall any creative new initiatives of the polish presidency, but both the six-pack and the admission of croatia were already doomed before our presidency. i would remind professor kolarska-bobińska that an effective presidency, as france or germany understood it, is precisely about putting interesting and good solutions for one's own country in the context of pan-european solutions. doesn't professor kolarska-bobińska remember that when germany was the president of europe, they settled one thing - the treaty of lisbon? then they did it in 2007. but it's a strange thing that germany, as the most populous country, has benefited the most from the fact that we have moved from the nice system, where they had 29 votes against, say, 27 votes for poland, to the double majority system, where as the most populous country they now have the most votes. doesn't mrs. kolarska-bobińska remember that when france was president in 2008, she knee-deeped in the climate package? france is the one that will make the most money by selling nuclear reactors and moving away from traditional technologies. so you can take care of your own affairs by putting them in the context of pan-european solutions, and that's what i expected from you, prime minister.
mr. chairman, please! prime minister! i don't mean to insult you, because you don't deserve it. but i'm going to criticize you because you deserve it, too. because i don't share your belief that this presidency was as good as it was. because we know that, for example, the polish presidency was criticized by amnesty international for not having an effective policy in belarus. jacques delors said that it was ignored. i, unlike mark siwiec, consider the results of the eastern partnership summit to be insufficient, unsatisfactory. i also believe that the last brussels summit did not really mean that we are dealing with a two-speed europe, but rather with a two-way europe, mr prime minister, and i believe that you have chosen the wrong direction. you gave a speech today, which martin schulz said would really please everyone, and that you could be registered with the social democrats. it's not a compliment because you're a liberal conservative. you should be that person and you should defend those values in europe. i have a feeling that the speech you gave was more like you were starting this presidency than you were settling it. if you'd given a speech like that five months ago, i would have understood. but you should have come with this document today. mr. prime minister, this is a document: "priorities of the polish presidency". the three priorities. i thought you would be able to account for these priorities, that your speech today would be about this, that you would show what we have done in the union. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you go. i wanted to ask why the member of parliament does not listen to what the leaders of the eastern partnership say about the eastern partnership. yesterday, president saakashvili praised poland for its active participation in the eastern partnership. the leaders of all countries praised poland. why does the mep say that poland's activity in supporting the opposition in belarus is insufficient, when all the opposition leaders in belarus say that poland is the leader in this matter in europe? why is the member of parliament criticising the polish presidency when everyone in this parliament (deputies from other countries) is praising it? perhaps you are too rarely in this parliament.
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the implementing acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. i will allow myself to ignore that last personal remark, and consider that it simply slipped the honourable member's mind. the main answer is that i have my own opinion and i prefer to listen to amnesty international's opinion on the belarusian issue. i also prefer to have my own opinion on the outcome of the eastern partnership summit, because i can distinguish between a diplomatic speech, like yesterday's sympathetic speech, and a very good christmas eve. i spoke to president saakashvili yesterday and i had the impression that we understood what georgia should do and what the european union should do about it. short answer to your question. i have my own opinion, not everyone here shares your opinion.
mr. chairman, please! the logo of the polish presidency, showing colourful arrows pointing upwards, was intended to show poland as a modern and young-spirited country, capable of initiating positive changes throughout europe. over the past six months, polish diplomacy at the head of the union has sought to demonstrate these qualities, while demonstrating the importance of coherence of action and solidarity of states, as well as perseverance in pursuing the goal, in europe. commentators on the polish presidency say it was quiet but effective. the most important points of the polish programme are the finalization of the so-called six-pack, the organisation of the eastern partnership summit in warsaw, the rescue of the union's food programme for at least two consecutive years or the signing of the accession treaty of croatia. the discussions on the european protection order in criminal matters and the european digital agenda, which focused on digitisation, accessibility and protection of cultural heritage, were also successful, particularly in the context of the development of the eu's digital library europeana, which was particularly important to me as rapporteur on the presidency's priority issue of the directive on the lawful use of orphan works . progress was also made in the six months on the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy and on the single european patent, which had been the subject of negotiations for more than 30 years. the polish presidency is not only a political activity, but also a cultural one. over the past six months, a very rich cultural programme has been presented in the largest european capitals and beyond, trying to bring polish music, art, theatre to european audiences. (laughter)
president of the commission. − mr president, prime minister, honourable members, the presidency of the council is of course not just an event: it is a process. by definition, a rotating presidency has to be integrated into that process, so it is true – as some of you said – that many of the achievements of the polish presidency were also the result of work done before, and we should recognise that. at the same time, it is also important to see what this presidency of the council will leave to the next presidencies. there are important contributions in this direction that i would like to highlight, particularly in connection with the multiannual financial framework. as you will remember, the commission presented the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 at the end of june, just before the beginning of the polish presidency of the council. the different proposals for a legal basis have now been approved and sent to the legislator. i would like to underline the contribution given to the debate by the polish presidency in advancing the files in the council through the initiative of the conference on the multiannual financial framework between this parliament, the national parliaments, the member states and the commission, and in keeping this house fully involved through the meetings between president buzek, prime minister tusk and myself, as well as the follow-up briefings on all meetings of the general affairs council. i hope that the next presidencies will keep the same level of involvement of all the institutions. i want once again to reiterate that the commission, commissioner lewandowski and i will give this file the highest priority. another point – which was also highlighted by a member of this parliament, mr mario mauro – is the polish presidency’s contribution to achieving an acceptable compromise on the programme of aid for the most vulnerable people. while i am not completely happy with this compromise, i think it was important to maintain this support for the most vulnerable people. i continue to think that it is unacceptable – and very hard to understand why – that some governments, given the situation of social emergency that we have today in europe, are not ready to commit to more solidarity in times of crisis. we need to keep this commitment to the poorest of our continent. one point that was highlighted – above and beyond the various files – is what the polish presidency brought in terms of commitment to europe. one very important and memorable contribution was its commitment to the european institutions. what we have said today, prime minister tusk, regarding the european institutions and regarding this parliament, is very important. i wish that all the heads of government could recognise the importance of this parliament, as you do, because in fact we need to reinforce european democracy, particularly now, when we are taking important decisions that touch upon the very important issue of the sovereignty of the member states. for instance, the decisions that are now being taken in terms of fiscal responsibility touch on very sensitive issues of sovereignty. we have to complete those decisions on more integration with more democracy, both at national and at european level. some people believe that democracy only exists at national level. they have not yet understood that in europe we also have a democracy, and that this parliament is essential for this democracy. if someone believes that in the 21st century democracy is only national, they have understood nothing about globalisation and about the 21st century. that is why, to have these decisions in terms of more advanced integration, we need to reinforce democracy and to complete national democracy with european democracy. we must not set national parliaments against the european parliament but, on the contrary, reinforce the idea of cooperation between the different levels of democracy. that is why, prime minister, what you said today regarding the role of the community institutions, and the role of this parliament, is very important. i hope, in the discussions we will be having in the next months, that this message is understood: the need to complete the fiscal compact with this parliament and with the national parliaments, so that we can indeed have a strong european democracy. if we do not have a strong european democracy – if some people believe that, because of so-called national sovereignty, we should not accept european democracy – what will happen is that the true sovereignty, the material sovereignty, will be left to the markets, to international priorities that nobody controls, without any kind of democratic scrutiny. that is why we have to create stronger european sovereignty to protect the democratic rights of our peoples. (applause)
acting president of the council. - my dear friends! i would like to thank you once again for the six months of cooperation and also for this debate today, both for the voices that underlined the effort and the effects of the polish presidency, but also for the voices that sounded critical. it is a satisfaction for me and my team to know that the critical voices were in a clear minority, but you will allow me to address some of those voices very specifically. i would like to stress once again that the most important thing from the point of view not only of the polish presidency - because this is the task (i have spoken about this with the danish prime minister) for the next and future presidencies, but above all for all the european institutions - is to think boldly and to act boldly in order to strengthen the community. that is also the most important result of our debate today. i would like to make it very clear that i do not agree with the voice of one of my opponents, mr porraby, who said - and this may be a symbolic summary of this debate - in his comments to the last european council that it takes courage and dignity to say 'no' to the european union. the quote is literal. i would like to say that today it takes courage, dignity and imagination to say 'yes' to the european union every day. (laughter) i also want to make it clear to you that your allegation that the polish presidency did not host the meeting on libya in march of this year is a false allegation, because the polish presidency began on july 1. it would be very difficult for me to be the initiator and host of such a meeting. as for the friendly, but also at times critical, voice of our friend mr eickhout, representing the greens/efa group on the durban issue: it is no secret that poland is not at the forefront of the climate movement. true, no one is perfect, and not everyone in a role will be perfect, and that is understandable. i'm asking for your understanding here. in the case of durban, as in all other climate action, but particularly when we talk about the issues that were decided in durban, the polish presidency was concerned above all that europe should not be alone in this effort to promote climate action. we believe - and i will always stress this - that climate action is an absolute priority for the european union, but it should not be naive action, and it would be if we were taking on challenges that are not global challenges, that is, not being taken on by our partners outside the european union. and that is why i believe that in durban we took - again, too small, but still - a step forward, that is to say, we managed to build a common decision, not just within the union, but with a global dimension, which is a step forward. you are right, it is unsatisfactory, but i hope that in the future we will be able to build this climate agreement not only in the european union, but that we will be able to bring russia, china, brazil, india, the united states, among others, more and more effectively into this, so that we are not alone in this effort, because then we may pay too high a price, especially at this critical time. i am also glad that the activities which i did not want to mention have been highlighted here. one of the speakers said that i should give a report on what we were going to do. that report, believe me, would be a long one. i think that the polish presidency - as the votes in this room show - has done the specific tasks we have undertaken, really effectively, really well. i didn't want to take up your time by going over day after day, month after month, these efforts that have been successful. i'm glad that something was highlighted that was also very important to us: the protection of the excluded. not just the weaker countries, but the protection of the excluded, the most vulnerable groups. yes, our initiative was, and my obsession is protecting children, not just from poverty, but from violence and sexual abuse. i am very grateful to all those who have helped the polish presidency take this next strong step towards protecting children who are victims of such violence. the same applies to the principle of the food programme for the poorest. we have literally achieved in the last few days what the polish presidency was about. for the next two years (if i remember correctly) this program will be operational - something very important even in times of crisis. i would like to thank you all once again for your cooperation in this project. (laughter) let me conclude by thanking president buzek, which is understandable. yes, those six months were in a sense polish six months in the european union. the president of the parliament, the polish presidency, but also - i think i can say this - the polish pro-european optimism, which despite these difficulties, despite the crisis, was felt here in this parliament and around us. i hope we can keep up the pro-european optimism and energy, because we need them very much. these are perhaps the most important tools in times of crisis, the ones that seem light, the ones that are hard to measure, but perhaps the most important: energy, optimism, trust. and that's what i wish for everyone. to you, dear george, thank you very much for your help, we could always count on you. thank you very much, jose manuel. you've been a great friend to this presidency, and truly without you, this presidency would not have ended with the results it has. thank you very much! and to the danish people, to the prime minister of denmark, to the danish presidency, i wish you success. we will be at your disposal and at the disposal of all those who want to make europe stronger. you can always count on the poles for this job. thank you very much. thank you. (laughter)
thank you, prime minister. the polish presidency, as is also evident from the applause and approval in this chamber, has won over the european parliament, many countries, many representatives of the european union to this very attitude - an attitude that is extremely dignified and conducive to the further development of the union, and to finding answers to the most important, most difficult questions that we face today in the european union. we have tried to answer this question during this presidency and the polish government and the polish delegation have been very helpful in this. i thank you for your kind words, of course, but it is the european parliament that has created the atmosphere and given strength to successive presidencies. he also gave - i am convinced - a lot of strength and energy to the polish presidency. i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the polish presidency was efficient, professional and important for poland and europe. the euro crisis has now lasted over 700 days and we have entered one of its most difficult phases during our presidency. the december meeting of eurozone rescue prime ministers was a moderate success. we're still facing more questions than answers. but we were able to counter the franco-german directorate. it is also thanks to poland's efforts that the union has not been divided into eurozone countries and the rest. it's 27 minus 27 - that's 27 countries minus the uk. poland has been known in europe as a country that takes a lot of european funds and resists action to combat climate change. now the polish european identity became clear and distinct. poland supports and will support a strong, united europe that includes, not divides.
in writing. the polish presidency has come at a very difficult and challenging time. despite this, and despite the fact that this was poland's first presidency, i consider its record to be very positive. i would like to thank the presidency in particular for its consistent efforts to develop the eastern partnership, including the organisation of the first partnership summit. europe needs stable partners with whom it can build good neighbourly relations. i also hope that the presidency's initiative - the democracy fund - will be effective in supporting democratic change in both the east and the south. i would also like to highlight the positive contribution of the presidency in reaching a difficult compromise on the 2012 budget and to acknowledge its effectiveness in working on the future of the integrated maritime policy and in drawing up the council conclusions on volunteering.
in writing. it was a good thing that the polish presidency fell on this difficult time of crisis, of weakening the unity of the eu, because poland has the greatest experience of fighting the crisis, fighting through deep political, institutional and structural reforms. these experiences, this way of thinking, this courage in reforms, are what europe needs today. the community spirit mentioned by president barroso is an interesting combination. yes, it takes a spirit and a community. it is a concept that defines the needs of the present time in europe, but let us remember that this community spirit is needed above all by many national governments, because only then will it be given to societies. the creation of a united europe is a complex social and economic process, because europe was, and still is, very diverse. ladies and gentlemen! to be effective, our reforms need to identify the causes of the crisis, analyse the effects of globalisation and our mistakes at eu and national level. just one example. why have we not complied with the stabilisation and growth pact, which has been binding on all member states for many years? who broke it? why was the economic system in the member states not monitored? who is responsible for these mistakes?
in writing. i am pleased to join in the words of appreciation for the polish presidency. among the many successes that have been recalled here today, two events that are of particular interest to me cannot be omitted: the conclusion of the work and the adoption of the directive on the european protection order and the directive on the prevention of the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. i congratulate you on this achievement, because for many people the european protection order is not only about ensuring the same level of security within the framework of freedom of movement in the european union, but above all about the chance to live a normal life in another country without feeling afraid. and protecting children - the most vulnerable group - from this abhorrent and deeply damaging form of abuse, sexual abuse, is something that is on the heart of almost every one of us. the value of this legal protection instrument is therefore indisputable. i am also optimistic about what prime minister donald tusk said about the common european values. it is particularly important at this difficult time to make a firm commitment to a common future for europe and to take the necessary action consistently with this declaration. i think that the polish presidency has indicated the right direction for further action and the way the european union should function, and i hope that this direction will be continued during future presidencies, so that we can overcome the economic crisis.
in writing. – i have heard words of praise from many quarters for the polish presidency which has been characterised by professionalism and enthusiasm. this presidency, in extremely challenging circumstances, managed to push forward many concrete solutions of immediate benefit to citizens. the presidency focused on the positive message of eu integration. nowhere was this more evident than in the area of the single market. achieving a truly barrier-free internal market could increase eu gdp by 4%. the presidency enthusiastically co-organised the first single market forum in krakow in october with the commission and parliament. over 1 300 citizens attended to discuss the challenges facing the single market and how to overcome them. the information stands on krakow’s market square were visited by 7 000 people – informing them of the rights and opportunities granted by this, europe’s single greatest asset. the presidency should also be commended for the progress made in negotiations on some very important dossiers which will greatly contribute to the effective functioning of the single market such as the unitary patent and the roaming regulation. i am proud of poland’s hard work on behalf of the eu’s 500 million citizens and i wish the danes success for the first half of 2012.
i think that we can proceed and therefore mr milana's proposal is not excessive or repetitive. when we talk about human rights, it is always good to add and not to take away.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? just a few words. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this report and all the other members who have contributed to it. we live in a time of global financial crisis, but let's remember something as fundamental and important as security. i would therefore like to call for a vote on this report.
dear colleagues, dear sakharov laureates, our solemn sitting is now open. today is a very special occasion, as 2011 will go down in history as the year of the arab spring. i am honoured to award the european parliament sakharov prize for freedom of thought in 2011 to five courageous women and men who represent the arab spring. the prize goes to:ms asmaa mahfouz, from egypt,(applause)mr ahmed al-sanusi, from libya,(applause)ms razan zaitouneh, from syria,(applause)mr ali farzat, also from syria,(applause)and the late mr mohamed bouazizi, from tunisia. (applause) dear friends, human rights are universal. we all value human dignity, freedom of thought and expression, as well as responsible and accountable government, and we are all entitled to it. by awarding the sakharov prize to the five arab spring activists, the european parliament recognises the efforts of all those who struggle for dignity, basic freedoms and political change in the arab world. looking back at this year’s events following the jasmine revolution in tunisia, we witnessed the removal of a dictator, and recently free elections. to honour the courage of the tunisian people we award the sakharov prize to the late mohamed bouazizi, a young street salesman. he set himself on fire after his authorities repeatedly denied him the most basic elements of a life of dignity. since then history has swept across north africa and the arab world, and many lost their lives for basic freedoms and human dignity. in many places the struggle is ongoing as we speak. in syria protestors’ demands are met by bullets, tear gas, tanks, arbitrary detention and torture. the latest number of deaths reported exceed 5 000, including 300 children. in order to honour and remember mr bouazizi and all those who lost their lives in the struggle for freedom and dignity in the arab world, i would like to ask all of us to observe a minute’s silence. (the house rose and observed a minute’s silence)this historical events also remind us of our responsibilities, including the need to support an emerging young and vibrant civil society. among our prize winners we have two young ladies, representatives of a new generation, asmaa mahfouz, from egypt and razan zaitouneh, from syria. they deserve not only our admiration and respect, but better prospects for their future. their nomination represents a tribute to the decisive role played by women during the arab spring. (applause)i hope that their courageous involvement is a sign that geopolitical changes will also bring about improvement in women’s rights in this region. (applause) today we have the honour to welcome in our chamber a young and remarkable woman, asmaa mahfouz, who mobilised egyptians to go out to tahrir square and demand their rights. she is a shining example and a symbol of how an individual can make a difference, leading by inspiration and by the strongest possible conviction of human rights, despite the risks of intimidation by the authorities. ms mahfouz, i would like to invite you to deliver a speech to us from the podium below. (applause)
i would like to thank the president and i would like to thank everybody here today for inviting me here and for awarding me this prize, which is in honour of the arab spring and the revolution in egypt and which has opened up a new relationship between the arab world and europe. we need this new dimension, this new approach. after the arab spring, and based on the interest that is now focused on the arab world, i think that we can be proud of the arab people because they are very much in favour of universal values of respect for human dignity. this reward pays homage to the heroes of the revolution. this is a prize that goes out to all young egyptians, people that have sacrificed their lives. they have been more courageous than i have. they have sacrificed their lives in the name of liberty for everybody. the egyptian revolution led to the overthrow of the regime. many european countries and the usa supported the mubarak regime before that overthrow but still this was achieved and the regime has now changed. the regime now is based on several people not just a single person and we want to ensure that we build on this success and build on a pacifist approach with no violence. and we want to ensure that no members of the former regime enjoy any support whatsoever. there are young people who are prepared to sacrifice themselves for the objectives of the revolution and for the birth of a civilised country based on human rights for all. each time there is an infringement or an attack on a human life we need speedy intervention and we should not be waiting any longer. people were killed. why did we wait so long before we took action? one occasion is enough to see that there has been a violation of human rights. this finally led to the arab world taking a place of priority in the world. i would like to tell you about how proud i am of all the martyrs of the arab revolution. we will not betray them; we will continue along the road that they have entered into and we want to make sure that this dream is fulfilled. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
ms mahfouz, thank you for your encouraging speech. the second young laureate i mentioned, also a lady. sakharov laureate razan zaitouneh is forced to live in hiding. she is not with us today but she continues to denounce on her blog human rights violations committed by the syrian forces. we commend her exceptional courage. she sent a very moving written message to all of us, a message of hope towards a free, democratic and pluralist syria. this message was circulated to all of you this morning. but we have another laureate with us. we are honoured to have mr ahmed al-sanusi with us today. he is one of those remarkable individuals who attempted to bring down a dictator a long time ago and paid a very high price for it. he is the longest-serving prisoner of conscience in libya, having spent 31 years in prison. mr al-sanusi is now working with the national transitional council and is in charge of the political prisoners. my wish to him is that the suffering he had to endure will be rewarded by national reconciliation in libya. mr al-sanusi’s integrity, wisdom and experience should be greatly valued in this process. mr al-sanusi, our dear guest, i would like to invite you to take the floor at the podium and to give your speech to us. (applause)
mr president of the european parliament, honourable members of the parliament, guests, let me begin by giving you my warmest greetings and expressing my thanks and gratitude to you for having chosen me as a recipient of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. this prize has huge symbolic and moral value. it is something that the people of libya appreciate. they have congratulated me on having been awarded the prize. it also provides further stimulus for the consolidation of the values we have always been in favour of, that is to say the creation of a democratic, constitutional state based upon the equality of all, a state where women enjoy the freedom to vote and stand in elections, to make their voices heard. women have made huge sacrifices in libya. women have laid down their lives. they have seen their nearest and dearest, their children die, to try to get rid of this totalitarian regime which we suffered from for more than 42 years – in prisons, with constant humiliation, constant violations of our human dignity. it was these years and years of dictatorship that eventually led young people to lay down their lives, to shed their blood, even though they had no weapons. the only weapon that they had was their commitment, their conviction. that is what won out in the end, thanks to the support from the international community and this european parliament. i would just like to express my gratitude to you for that. now we need to rebuild our country, to do so in a tolerant fashion, showing tolerance even to those who committed crimes, who targeted our sons, our brothers, those who destroyed houses, who violated human dignity. i am sure that you saw these things on television, all the crimes that were committed in libya. again we are grateful for the unambiguous economic, diplomatic and military support that europe provided. as i said, we had no weapons and the dictator tried to keep us down by force thanks to the links he had forged with certain countries, countries that supported him for various reasons – economic reasons sometimes, and other reasons. but all of these countries realised that ultimately the people would win. the people always remain. that is why we would like to thank europe for the position that it adopted and thank of course the whole of the international community. but we have to say that our european neighbours – our closest neighbours – were the first to support the libyan people, despite their lack of weapons. thanks to that support we managed to get rid of this totalitarian regime that had been in place for 42 years. i myself of course was a prisoner of conscience under gaddafi. i was in prison for 31 years, including nine years in solitary confinement. i was tortured, i was denied health care, but i did not lose hope. during all of those years i did not abandon my human dignity. in libya now we want to be treated on the same footing as everybody else; we do not want to be described as a nation of terrorists or people who have no right to life. we love life: our own lives and the lives of others as well. and we hope that the sakharov prize will allow us to make progress and allow other states still suffering from dictatorships to make progress too. please support us, and support us in trying to achieve those goals. we have a long way to go before our goals can be met but, thanks to patience, thanks to persistence, i am sure that we will achieve them. the first step is to set up a parliament and a constitution voted by the people. thank you once again for listening to me. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
dear colleagues, the sakharov prize is awarded for freedom of thought and this can take many forms. sometimes a painting speaks more than a thousand words. this is demonstrated by the drawings and cartoons of mr ali farzat. his weapon is the pen. through his creativity and courage, his cartoons have pushed the boundaries of freedom of expression in syria and the entire arab world. his political cartoons reflect his ideals. ali farzat was beaten up by security forces in august. both his hands were broken, but he sent us a video message, being unable to come to the european parliament. i would like to invite you to watch his video message. (the video message was played) (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
winner of the sakharov prize (video). - welcome, my dear friends! i wish i could be with you today to receive this prestigious sakharov prize for freedom of thought and to thank you for this great honor you have bestowed upon me. i'm not able to be here because of my personal circumstances, but whatever my feelings and my heart are with you all. i'm so happy to be given this glorious crown and to be with you, even if it's only temporarily, as much as i'm suffering in syria. every hour, every minute, every second, a victim falls and it makes me sad and bitter. i think the souls of the victims, the wounded, the people in the streets, they're all here with us today. and they tell us how great and precious freedom is and that it is a gift from god. a short while ago i asked a friend of mine: "you who go out every day to protest in the streets, aren't you afraid of being killed?" he said, "of course, i'm always weighing the risks, and i know that death is waiting for me. but you know, ali, how precious freedom is. this is the first time in my life that i'm finally making my voice heard. i haven't heard it in 50 years, until today. whatever happens, i will at least have asserted my right to life and liberty". i would like to express to all those present and to all those who have contributed to my honour in the european parliament - i would like to greet mr geoffrey harris, head of the human rights unit, and mr buzek, president of the european parliament - my deepest gratitude. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
i shall now hand over the sakharov prize certificates. (the house accorded the prizewinners a standing ovation)(the european anthem was played)to podsumowuje punkt obrad.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you. well, i'm very positive about the report on the impact of the financial crisis on the defense sector. i would like to point out, however, that this situation will get worse, and that the crisis will mean that the defence budget in the member states will be reduced. the resources must therefore be concentrated. i think that they should be concentrated in two areas. first, the union's common defence capability should be increased. i would like to stress that it is not just a question of the defence capabilities of individual countries, but that the union must have a higher level of capability. second, there must be clear progress in one area. this should be the area of research and technology. we in europe spend on li only 2 billion euros a year, while the us spends 10 times more. there must be a much higher standard here.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much. i have supported the report on the eu's counter-terrorism policy. i supported this with great conviction, because terrorism and organised crime are unfortunately the main threats to security in europe today. the fight against this threat requires the cooperation of the member states and the coordination of the work of the various services, including the intelligence services, the police and the judiciary. this fight, if it's going to be an effective fight, it has to be waged not just by one country, but it has to be waged by all countries. i therefore believe that the powers of the eu coordinator for combating terrorism should be increased. i think it's very important.
in writing. − the envi report on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption is a document which contains a number of important elements. i believe that the quality of each product is ecological, ethical and social quality, and european products of high standard make healthy and especially sustainable nutrition possible. however, it should not be forgotten that 82% of orange juice comes from brazil and the usa, and the european processing industry is complementary to the fresh fruit trade. although there are still many issues to be resolved, including the naming of the names, i consider the report by mr andrés perello rodríguez to be well prepared and i voted in favour of its adoption. thank you, sir.
in writing. − the proposed amendments to council directive 2001/112/ec take account of technical progress in the production methods of juices, exclude sugars from the list of ingredients allowed for use in juices, order the provisions on flavourings and provide clear definitions of finished products and raw materials and intermediate products for their production. it is important that the amendments to the 'juice directive' address the health benefits and, above all, regulate the addition of sweeteners to juices, so that clear labelling of products makes it easier for consumers to distinguish juice from nectar (e.g. in the case of the labelling of juices derived from two or more fruits). the support to national fruit producers should also be taken into account. the entry into force of the amendments to the directive contributes to improving the quality of fruit juices and nectars in circulation and to harmonising their labelling. the amendments will also make it possible to harmonise the quality requirements for juices and nectars, which will contribute to improving the quality of the products.
in writing. − in more and more households, not only the washing machine but also the dishwasher are becoming standard in the home. so we use a lot more products that have a lot of phosphate. they are discharged into watercourses and then into reservoirs and contribute to over-fertilization. the rapporteur, mr bill newton dunn, rightly points out that we should do everything we can to reduce the risk of eutrophication, which is associated with a decrease in the transparency of water, the formation of algal shells on its surface and the mass extinction of aquatic fauna due to insufficient oxygen and light. overflowed reservoirs have a marked deterioration in the taste and smell of the water, making them unsuitable not only as a place for sports and recreation but also as a source of drinking water. the setting of weight limits for the amount of phosphate in a portion of detergent is a very good move, forcing manufacturers to introduce more concentrated, compact products on the market. the solution is to use products containing phosphorus in a proportion that depends on the hardness of the water in the area, or to mass-produce products that do not contain phosphate. member states should also make every effort to introduce technologies and appropriate equipment for the recovery of phosphorus due to its rare occurrence as an element.
in writing. − while we are concerned about the growing trend of cuts in national defence budgets and the associated risk of reducing the combat capability of member states' armies, i cannot support the report. actions to coordinate defence planning, pool joint ownership potential, strengthen cooperation in research and technological development and optimise military procurement are already being implemented under the north atlantic treaty. there is therefore no need to duplicate them within the union. i am also sceptical about the possibility of these initiatives being implemented as a complement to the coordination of nato's defence planning process. member countries spend a combined €200 billion a year on defence, which is only one third of us defence spending, while covering three quarters of nato's budget. the very low level of expenditure and, above all, the waste of the european members' resources, could threaten the alliance's continued existence and this should be our primary focus.
in writing. − the common security and defence policy is an essential value for the development of the freedom and democracy so important to the european union. i think that its role, its community character, is becoming more important in a time of crisis, when various budget cuts are being made as part of austerity. but we must remember that it is the military sector, the defence industry, that is the place of modern scientific research, of various innovative solutions, which are then taken over by the areas of the civilian economy and significantly influence their development. i would like to deal with two other problems in detail. first, i believe that the european external action service should have more specialists on important eu and global issues - such as energy security, climate and environmental issues, economic and development issues, finance and many others. this would greatly enhance the quality of the work of this service. secondly, the european union should develop its own services and strengthen the coordination of national disaster relief services. it should be an important pillar of our activities, complementing nato's activities. congratulations on a very interesting report.
in writing. - the recent elections to the state duma must be a cause for concern. the eu's diplomacy is to steer relations with russia in a way that enhances the democratization process in that country. the mass protests against the election results show that russians are convinced that the current government lacks legitimacy. i therefore agree with the call to clarify the cases of fraudulent cards and other electoral crimes, punish the guilty and hold a re-vote. particular concern is expressed at the burdensome electoral registration procedures which lead to the exclusion of several opposition groups and thus constitute a denial of political pluralism. the registration of candidates for next year's presidential elections is currently underway. i support any diplomatic pressure to force this process to be conducted in a democratic manner. in adopting the resolution, i also call on the russian authorities to respect the ceasefire agreement and to respect georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
in writing. − this month will mark the twentieth anniversary of the dissolution of the soviet union. two decades later, the russian people have yet to complete the transition to an open society and a market economy. nevertheless, there are many brave russian citizens who demonstrate for an open and democratic russia. in this context, i call upon colleagues to support measures to foster people-to-people links and the consolidation of trade and good neighbourly relations between russian and eu citizens – and by that i mean all eu citizens, and not merely those living in border regions, most notably those in regions adjacent to the kaliningrad oblast. the passing of such measures would be undoubtedly the most effective means by which we can demonstrate concrete support for an open and democratic russia. let then our deeds match our words and let us make kaliningrad a beacon of hope and a shining example of eu-russian cooperation.
in writing. - this is the 26th summit between the european union and russia. so it's worth asking questions. what steps should be taken to strengthen our cooperation? what social, political and economic values, of which europe is proud, should our representatives take up in their talks with russia? the optimistic tone is given by the conclusion by russia of negotiations for accession to the world trade organisation or by the acceleration of the steps towards the gradual abolition of the visa requirement, which will facilitate the mobility of our citizens and develop trade between the union and russia. these are signs of hope for the future of economic relations. nevertheless, there are still a number of areas where there is much to be done. the first is energy and our right to build a competitive energy supply system for ourselves. an effective european energy policy depends on our common, unified position, which should be the starting point for all negotiations with our partners outside the continent and for the implementation of the new energy programme. the issues of free democratic elections and citizens' rights to freedom of expression are another important theme to be taken into account at the summit with russia, given the worrying situation surrounding the recent duma elections and the public reaction they have provoked.
in writing. - in the face of the democratic transitions in our southern neighbours and in view of the aspirations of the eastern countries, i welcome the draft new strategy for the european neighbourhood policy. the european development path of our partners, their commitment to democratisation, must be pursued with our active and full support. sustainable economic and social development, the emergence and operation of open, democratic political groups and ngos will also strengthen relations with brussels and contribute to the prosperity of these countries. accelerating reforms is possible through association agreements, which is why it is so important to negotiate efficiently and quickly. the implementation of this policy must be based on respect for the equality of all partner countries. the issue of respect for human rights is also of great importance. in this context, it is necessary to underline the need to take specific action to support the process of democratisation in belarus.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the neighbourhood policy is of great strategic importance to the community countries. a balanced neighbourhood policy by the member states will contribute to progress and development in peace-building and democracy in neighbouring countries. for the partner countries, building a long-term neighbourhood policy gives hope of stability and a willingness to support the european union in building their internal development and social prosperity. i would like to point out that we should be concerned about the sustainable socioeconomic development of our neighbours. building a neighbourhood policy will also bring greater security and economic development to the union. events such as the arab spring and the situation in ukraine require us to adopt a modern approach to the outbreak of conflicts and to pursue a rational financial policy towards these countries. this project will allow us to influence the way we look at human rights, immigration and asylum policy. this document will also facilitate the analysis of the financial assistance provided. it should also be noted that member states should demonstrate a willingness to align their national interests with the common neighbourhood policy, taking into account the benefits for both parties and in particular for partner countries.
in writing. − the european union needs a new strategy for a european neighbourhood policy that is adapted to the socioeconomic and political conditions of each country bordering the european union. i think we should promote respect and democracy, human rights and democratic governance. we should further strengthen the multilateral dimension of the eastern partnership, taking into account the role of peripheral regions and euroregions, especially in the eu's external policy. this will also help us to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy, especially in border regions, which is why i voted in favour of the report by mário david and marek siwca on the european neighbourhood policy. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i believe that we should strive to strengthen the european neighbourhood policy in its political, financial and economic dimensions. i support efforts to strike a balance between developing the european union's relations with its eastern and southern neighbours, recognising their different aspirations and needs. i believe that the development of political contacts, economic convergence and the removal of trade barriers, including the reduction or abolition of the visa requirement, are particularly important. the strategic objective of the neighbourhood policy is to stimulate economic growth. removing administrative and legislative barriers and improving competitiveness are also important, but the fight against corruption is no less important. the clear benefits are improved conditions for association, increased media freedom, and respect for the rights of national minorities. there are still many issues that require further action by the european parliament and many challenges ahead, but i am confident that all the challenges facing the european neighbourhood policy will be successfully addressed.
in writing. - despite years of fighting terrorism, it is still a phenomenon in the modern world. the recent tragic events in norway show that the security of european countries can also be threatened by their own citizens. terrorism is used by both organized groups and individual extremists. terrorist activities are subject to a constant evolution of their criminal character. the legal framework and mechanisms to combat all its manifestations must therefore be systematically improved, which means that action must also be taken to ensure effective prevention. however, the union should not be the coordinator of the exchange of intelligence. national security is a matter for the member states. the reporting in this form does not reflect a sense of real danger. it does not specify how to improve police and judicial cooperation. it does not formulate specific solutions to ensure the security of citizens and to prevent the various forms of extremism in the member states. i abstained from the vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the draft regulation under discussion has the potential to improve the transparency of the european institutions in the eyes of the public. if the principle of transparency is extended to the union's institutions, offices and agencies, then by analysing their work, by facilitating access to documents, citizens themselves may come to the conclusion that in some cases the eu's extensive bureaucracy is a form that outweighs the content and that its maintenance is not always justified, especially in times of crisis. in this context, i also do not think it is right to create new posts of officials, that is, information officers. ensuring that every natural or legal person in the european union has access to full, comprehensive information should be the right and the effort of every employee within his or her field of competence. at the same time, in order to increase the transparency of the technocratic application of law and the enactment of laws, the positive postulate of the draft regulation is to extend the access of citizens also to documents constituting delegated acts. information relating to security concerns should be given special protection.
madam president! i would like to add my warmest regards to the rapporteur. mr fleckenstein has done a really good job. i will now go directly to the rules of procedure. this regulation and this discussion confirms to us the fact that the maritime safety agency has been in operation for eight years. the agency is verified on a daily basis in practice, by organising inspections at sea and preventing various pollution. the positive aspect of the agency's work, which we have not mentioned here before, is the monthly communications, which are used by more than 2 000 users. it could therefore be said that the agency's work record is certainly positive. but i want to draw attention to two factors. the first problem is that the agency is now primarily concerned with maritime transport. i think the various risks of oil and gas extraction in increasingly difficult conditions require a more serious discussion. the second problem is that the regulation extends the scope of the agency's work, adding 14 new areas of action. it is not clear to me whether in the next few years, in the next financial perspective, there will be new and additional resources for these new tasks.
madam president! i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and thanking him for the great amount of work he has put into the preparation of this report. first of all, i would like to emphasise that i highly value emsa's work on safety and environmental matters at sea. i also believe that it is necessary to regulate the tasks currently carried out by emsa and to define the scope of its future activities, as my predecessors have said. i believe that the definition of the agency's tasks and organisational framework should encourage its substantive involvement in emerging issues in the maritime sector. i also believe that the rules for emsa's provision of technical assistance to international organisations such as the imo require further clarification.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission white paper ‘roadmap to a single european transport area’, adopted on 28 march 2011, defines a vision for a competitive and resource-efficient transport system and a policy agenda for the coming years. i would like sincerely to thank the rapporteur, matthieu grosch, and the members of the committee on transport and tourism for the input given to the commission throughout this exercise. it all started with the report on the 2009 communication on a sustainable future for transport. i believe there is wide agreement on the importance of preserving an efficient and competitive transport sector. transport is an essential support for the internal market and the economic integration of all regions of europe in the global economy. transport is also an important economic sector itself, with 10 million jobs in transport services and another 8 million in the manufacture of transport vehicles. transport is also essential for social and territorial cohesion. this is why i am convinced that curbing mobility is not a sensible alternative in order to make transport sustainable. but i am also convinced that, without finding ways of using less and cleaner energy and of better exploiting infrastructure, we will be forced into such a detrimental alternative. the white paper sets a target for a 60% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 with respect to 1990 and ten goals that will benchmark progress until that date. there are 40 concrete initiatives which the commission intends to take within the current mandate in order to address transport challenges. we are fully committed to this agenda. the commission will, in 2011, deliver about 20% of the initiatives listed in the white paper – and not the least important ones. i will continue, based on the wide support given in your report to several key proposals, such as the internalisation of external costs of transport; the single european sky; the maritime ‘blue belt’; urban sustainable mobility plans and, in general, the completion of the internal market in transport. as the commission announced in its work programme, i intend to put forward very ambitious proposals next year. concerning rail, the programme should include measures to develop the european single railway area. new legislation should also contribute to the development of clean fuel vehicles and priorities set for innovation and technological development. we will also make further steps towards the full internalisation of all externalities and for the elimination of tax distortions. i hope i can count on parliament’s continued support to make the vision outlined in the white paper a reality.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president! - what are you doing? transport is the foundation of our economy and society. it contributes to economic growth and job creation. however, the development of this sector of the economy must be sustainable and linked to international cooperation. european infrastructure and transport system management should aim to increase the competitiveness and attractiveness of the european union as a whole, and this can only be achieved by eliminating the effects that restrict the free movement of transport between member states. in my opinion on the creation of a single european transport area, i focus on the need to move towards technologies based on non-fossil fuels, which are less harmful to air emissions, to reduce energy and fuel consumption by promoting clean driving and the use of fuel-saving technologies, and to support research to accelerate the introduction of eco-innovation and new technologies in transport. the development of infrastructure in the new member states, including road infrastructure, is also a very important element and should be reflected in the multiannual financial plans.
in writing. the last white paper on transport published by the commission in 2001 set out our framework and scope for action in the sector for the next 10 years. the european union's transport strategy has been largely based on the factors developed jointly there. it is important that the white paper currently being drawn up fully addresses the needs of the sector, while also identifying emerging trends and needs. it should be stressed that transport is so important to eu citizens because it defines the concept of mobility. eu citizens benefit directly from it, as it allows them to move for both their private and professional needs. let us remember that it also represents one of the freedoms of europe, namely freedom of movement. the rapporteur rightly supports long-term objectives, but he stresses that it is impossible to predict how new technologies will develop or what economic conditions we will have to face in the future, even from the perspective of the current crisis. the question that is very interesting is therefore: what are the challenges for european transport policy in 2050? i think it is appropriate to define a common strategy for all policy areas to be achieved by 2020. however, they should be subject to annual inspection.
madam president! the free movement of people and workers within the european union is one of the key benefits of integration. in the period of recovery from the economic and financial crisis, we should particularly support the mobility of european union citizens. despite the fact that freedom of movement and of employment in the member states has long been a core value of the union, union citizens continue to face many barriers and obstacles resulting from the different national legislative arrangements, but also, as is still the case for workers from bulgaria and romania, from the transitional periods introduced. currently, only 2% of eu citizens live in a member state other than their own. over 17% of people say they would like to work in another eu country, showing that there is untapped potential. the second transitional phase for workers from bulgaria and romania will end at the end of 2011. from now on, member states wishing to extend transitional periods will have to prove that the influx of workers from these countries will cause serious disruption to the labour market. each country has the right to introduce a transitional period, but as meps we should strive to make the principles on which such decisions are made clear and transparent, and to create a set of indicators to allow for consideration of such requests. many members in this chamber have raised these issues. next year, croatia will join the european union. i hope that, unless member states have clear evidence that croatian workers threaten the stability of their labour markets, they will open up and contribute to improving mobility in the european union. workers from my country, poland, have proven by their quality of work that it's worth opening the door to mobility.
madam president! i wanted to say that today's topic is extremely important in reference to the words that fell in this room from the mouth of the polish prime minister, the chairman of the polish presidency. today, one of the answers to the crisis is to deepen integration. the problems we have in the comprehensive system of restrictions on the free movement of persons in the form of schengen, in the form of transitional periods, which today discriminate to a large extent against the citizens of bulgaria and romania, must be addressed. we should be more courageous in our efforts to make the movement of workers an opportunity for the development of the european union and to overcome the crisis. we must now face the fact that one third of the citizens of the european union have no vocational qualifications. how are we to achieve the mobility we set out in the europe 2020 strategy if we do not fully open up labour markets for all member states, including in view of croatia's accession? i therefore call for courage and for our solutions to open up markets through the free movement of workers, so that europe's competitiveness is increasing. i therefore call on the commission to show courage and take action. the vote of parliament is therefore extremely important.
madam president! i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. i'm a member of the delegation for afghanistan. i know that this country has been in a notorious war for 30 years, in this country all the foundations of a democratic and transparent state have been shaken, they simply did not exist. this country is being rebuilt. that is why it is so important to join forces, whether it is the un funds, the world bank funds or our european funds. they should be settled through similar channels, which must be based on a system of transparency, which must be based on measurable indicators of the effectiveness of the use of aid. i think we need to rehearse all the elements. it obviously requires a stronger government administration, which has its own goals, because the country needs to be rebuilt. but let's remember that ngos have to be supported in parallel, so the channel of distribution of funds by ngos is equally important. the private sector does not exist, and it is also key to redistribute resources that must be used efficiently. i therefore think that we should create exactly what the rapporteur has said - clear steps towards transparency, efficiency and above all we should settle them step by step on the basis of clear and legible principles.
madam president! thank you very much, rapporteur, for this report. i am a member of the delegation for central asia and we welcome the assumption of this strategy. in the area of the democratisation of human rights, we must ask ourselves whether the european union wants to be a global player that promotes values linked to human rights and freedom. to do this, we need to join forces decisively with the un and undp, because these activities are parallel and often unrelated. we can increase efficiency if we work together. that's the first and most important point. in the economic area, the energy issue and nabucco. unfortunately, our efforts are already a little behind schedule. the chinese, who have their own additional connection, have exploited and overtaken us in this area. we should be more active in the energy sector and in the whole of the rare earth strategy. i think we have a very good experience of democratic nation-building to pass on to these new countries with different degrees of democratization. let us use this great asset, let us also use it to act in parallel in the economic sphere and in the protection of human rights. then this strategy will surely work.
madam president! an economic crisis is usually a very difficult time not only for entrepreneurs but also for employees. companies, in their efforts to reduce operating costs, place far less emphasis on compliance with safety and health regulations. we must not forget that the european strategy for health and safety at work is implemented in specific economic circumstances, and these conditions have a major impact on its effectiveness. the greatest threat to workers today is the constant risk of job loss and the all too common phenomenon of mobbing that is closely linked to it. employers and supervisors can exploit their position, knowing that the situation on the labour market puts them in a privileged position. few people are able to resist the aggression they experience, knowing that it may result in the loss of their only source of income. and that's why i think we should focus on this phenomenon. there is no doubt that the lack of a common and uniform definition of the phenomenon of mobbing at european level is a major shortcoming. this is why i join the call of the commission and the member states to develop national strategies to combat violence in the workplace. however, these strategies must be based on a common definition of mobbing across member states and an effective campaign to raise awareness of rights. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament and to the council.
madam president! one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and make the union a world leader in green technologies. in the light of the current economic crisis, this objective is extremely ambitious and difficult to achieve. it is therefore to be welcomed that we have an effective instrument to achieve this, namely intelligent energy for europe. the decade of its existence has shown very clearly that the objectives and mechanisms adopted under the framework contribute to improving energy efficiency, promoting renewable energy sources and, above all, to the exchange of experience between scientists and experts in this field. it's worth it to not let that experience go to waste. it is important that the new edition of this programme is open to new technological and raw material opportunities that have emerged recently and that allow some member states, especially those where changes are urgent and necessary, to achieve real co2 reductions. the new energy sources that are giving europe energy independence and that need attention are, for example, the shale gas deposits recently discovered in poland. the success of the current edition of the programme is that every project financed and implemented can be verified and assessed in terms of the measurable results it brings. the main contribution is made by the experts and professional teams employed by the associated executive agency. it may be worth considering whether this experience could be transferred to other instruments and mechanisms in order to increase the effectiveness of the union and its member states' actions towards smart and sustainable development.
this program requires us to improve energy efficiency. europe continues to make unreasonable use of the energy resources at its disposal. it is essential that existing programmes aimed at improving efficiency reach an ever wider audience. public education in areas such as energy efficiency and reduction of energy consumption is the most effective way to build sustainable solutions in creating energy security and sustainable development. changes in the new policy must continue to go hand in hand with environmental protection. the key action remains the reduction of co2 emissions and the reduction of energy consumption. taking care of the environment is our responsibility to future generations, and the way to succeed in this is through a modern approach to energy and the way we use renewable energy.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schwab, very warmly for the excellent report he has produced. however, i would like to draw attention to a rather curious situation: we are looking at the 2010 report almost 12 months after its completion. i think that in future parliament should do everything possible to speed up the work. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take action to ensure that the competition rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the free movement of goods, services and capital stimulates the development of the single market while strengthening consumer protection. the key to stimulating competition and increasing the value of choice of articles is a balanced pricing policy. the lack of competition in the roaming market is a particularly striking example. despite the introduction of new framework legislation in this area, the need to increase price transparency remains evident. further action is therefore necessary to achieve the objective of eliminating the difference between roaming costs and national tariffs. in the food sector, too, the lack of price transparency and the complexity of the supply chain should be a focus. ensuring that consumers have more choice and avoid unfair discrimination will certainly help to improve the situation.
madam president! in times of crisis, europe needs to increase its competitiveness, which is a major contributor to its economic growth. the role of the common market is crucial here, and competition policy is the key to its proper functioning and development. competitiveness policy can be an effective tool in the fight against the crisis, but it must be properly targeted. we all remember the spectacular failure of the lisbon strategy, which was supposed to make the european union the most competitive economy in the world. attempts to make the union the most competitive economy in the world have failed because of a change in the paradigm of economic integration. all attempts to control the economy at european level, including the lisbon strategy, have failed. competition policy should therefore be used to unlock europe's economic potential, not as a tool for sophisticated economic engineering. we must not forget this, especially in times of crisis, when competition policy has a special role to play.
madam president! competitiveness policy defines the rules for the functioning of the single european market, which is the foundation of the european union and the source of its success. i want to draw attention to the following problems. firstly, mergers, acquisitions and takeovers improve the economic efficiency and strengthen the market position of a newly created economic entity, but let us remember that market domination, monopolisation, leads to a reduction in competitiveness and a deterioration in the consumer's situation. second, we have spent a lot of money in the past on bank bailouts. the taxpayer paid for it in the end. at the same time, the free food distribution scheme for the poorest in the european union, which costs only 500 million euros a year, has been blocked for the last two years. finally, the energy market should be monitored more closely, both at eu and national level, as the increase in energy costs is very burdensome for consumers. the same is true of the food market. congratulations on your report.
dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, honourable guests, ‘if sparta and rome perished,’ wrote jean jacques rousseau, ‘what state can hope to last for ever?’ no human institutions are immortal. we europeans must not be deluded into thinking that our union is somehow an exception. to remain strong it requires an investment every day in our common future. to understand where we are today, we need a historic context. in this recent period of prosperity, we fell into the illusion that the eu could simply sail on forever. we have not prepared our community for difficult and more challenging times. we did not have enough political will and we did not convince our citizens of such a project. we even broke our own rules. discipline was lost. three years ago the financial crisis sailed across the atlantic. we were not prepared for such a situation. arguments about self-interest began to erode our belief in the common good. and now, our union has moved into a deep crisis whose causes are as much political and psychological, as economic. as president of the european parliament i served you, and europe’s citizens. i have been incredibly honoured by your choice of two-and-a-half years ago, given with such a great majority. i succeeded my dear friend hans-gert pöttering in office, whom i thank once again for his excellent leadership. i was competing for this post with ms eva-britt svensson who is not present with us today, but to whom i send my warmest regards. i also pay tribute to our colleagues mario mauro and graham watson, who supported my candidature to ensure the unity of this chamber. i did everything in order not to disappoint your trust. i knew that i could count on you, no matter what our views were. today i would like to give my report on the work of our parliament: your work, as well as mine. this is not a detailed report. you will find such a document in your mailboxes in the new year. however, i would like to present what we have achieved together, and what still remains ahead of us. you know as well as i do that my term as president coincided with an exceptionally difficult time for europe. first, we introduced the treaty of lisbon. second, we faced the crisis. third, we observed globalisation at an incredible speed. fourth, we faced the most important decisions for our future. i wish to outline these four points with you today. first, let us remind ourselves that in the summer of 2009 we faced the threat that the treaty of lisbon might not be ratified by all member states. i started from convincing the still unconvinced that we needed more europe. my first official visit was to ireland, just before the second referendum. then i went to meet the czech president. i will never forget that discussion. it started bluntly and ended very positively. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon changed the way our european union functions. for me, the most important was parliament’s place in eu decision-making. we are now the parliament we always wanted to be. (applause)we are now the parliament we always wanted to be: a full co-legislator in a two-chamber structure. we achieved a lot, but this is a fight we all need to continue. to be strong is simply not enough; we need to use our power in everyday practice and to decide. i am proud that the european parliament, in cooperation with the other eu institutions, is ready to prepare in a few weeks’ time a deep and comprehensive programme to help solve our current economic problems. jean monnet once said ‘everybody is ambitious. the question is whether he or she is ambitious to be or ambitious to do’. we should be ambitious ‘to do’, of course. you, the members of the european parliament, co-decide on nearly all the essential policies and give your consent on almost all international agreements. who will ever forget our decision to block the swift agreement with the united states in order to protect the rights of our citizens? i remember the night before the vote, i received a phone call from the us secretary of state. i told her that as a former senator, she knows and understands about democratic oversight. she did, and she agreed later during her visit to the european parliament, that today we have a better agreement than the first one. our citizens expect that we exercise power, proper parliamentary scrutiny. in the spirit of lisbon we have pushed for greater accountability of the european commission. we negotiated a better framework agreement between parliament and the commission. the candidate for the president of the commission came for the first time to our political groups to discuss his five-year manifesto. we established the monthly question hour with the president of the european commission and commissioners. we used our powers to shape the new european external action service so that it was more accountable and representative for the community as a whole. we insisted on hearings of eu ambassadors to key posts and that the vice-president/high representative should report back to plenary on a regular basis. equally, we shaped a new relationship with the european council and its president. but with new powers comes increased responsibility and increased demands for credibility and transparency. so as a parliament we also had to respond to that. i am very proud today to say we introduced our own code of conduct for members. it was adopted with a huge majority and was applauded for its clarity and strength. i believe we should remain committed to the letter and the spirit of what the treaty of lisbon represents – using the european institutions and creating a common good and common solutions for the whole community. challenge number two was the need for action and overcoming the crisis. over the last two and a half years we had to deal with a series of very difficult economic and international challenges. we had a crisis within the eu but we also had a critical situation at our borders. when you elected me as president of the european parliament, we all thought that the international banking crisis was coming to an end. instead it came to our shores and took away wealth and jobs from millions of our citizens. responding to that challenge became our highest priority as the crisis brought an enormous threat to our citizens. a broad package of laws – the ‘six-pack’ – entered into force just two days ago and our european parliament can be proud of the role it played in shaping this legislation. it is a new economic anti-crisis shield making closer economic cooperation a reality. thanks to our firmness, attempts to weaken this shield were not successful. now it may even become a part of the new treaty under discussion. we passed legislation increasing the supervision of banks, insurers and the financial sector. for all three institutions responsible – commission, council and parliament – and with their support i proposed a first fast-track procedure for a legislation aiming to combat the crisis; similar to what we used when we established a permanent stability mechanism. on your behalf i have often stressed the need to complete the internal market and to boost growth and competitiveness. as part of the crisis reaction i was engaged in contacts with the rotating presidencies, the president of the commission, president rompuy of the european council and with the head of the euro group and the president of the ecb. our parliament called for more investment and for bigger support of research, development and green technologies. in today’s europe, just as it was in the 1950s, energy is at the heart of our economy. this is why i made a special appeal with jacques delors to create a genuine european energy community. i was proud that this plenary supported this idea. let us turn to the challenges we faced in our neighbourhood, both to the south and to the east. if you will permit me i would like to admit a difficult truth. for many years we looked for stability, while not being seriously engaged in defending human rights and building democracy in our neighbourhood. but long-term stability can only come from democracy. we learned this from our history but did not apply it to our closest neighbours. our arab neighbours have reminded us that freedom and democracy are for everybody. on the other hand we, european parliamentarians, were always strong defenders and supporters of all people fighting for freedom, democracy and human dignity. our annual sakharov prize is the most visible example of this. in parliament we were the first politicians to call for gaddafi to step down. when i spoke to protestors in tahrir square in cairo and freedom fighters in martyrs’ square in tripoli, they told me: ‘thank you, europe. thank you for believing and being with us.’ i heard from the prime minister of tunisia that ‘the only way for us is europe’. however we cannot support democracy only by words. our external policies and our internal policies must be linked as we, together with the european commission, proposed in our new neighbourhood policy. if we want to export our democratic model, we need to invest there and to open step-by-step our market for their goods and services. long-term democracy and stability can only come from growing prosperity – step-by-step. if i may add one additional remark: i visited the choucha refugee camp in tunisia. if we want to present ourselves as credible to our neighbours, we must respond to their expectations and help with their refugee crisis. three thousand people not having the possibility to go back to their countries is something that the eu should be able to deal with. the european union is a lighthouse, a beacon for people across the mediterranean, but also for those to the east of us: in georgia, moldova, ukraine and many others. this is why i urged, together with many of you, for the creation of the euronest parliamentary assembly. it is one of our successes. when i travelled from baku to yerevan, from tbilisi to chisinau, i tried to explain that sitting and negotiating at the same table gives hope for lasting peace. unfortunately, i regret the situation in belarus today seems to be worse than it was some thirty months ago. talking about the eu’s activities in our neighbourhood, i would like to make a general remark. i am a strong believer in the power of our parliamentary diplomacy. we are trusted both by society and local leaders. this was a success for example in moldova. one year ago i was actively involved in bringing the various parties to the negotiating table in the efforts to form a pro-european alliance and to move forward with their reforms. our european ‘soft power’ seems to be as strong as ‘hard power’ when we promote our values and create democratic institutions and procedures. we can see this in the western balkans for example. as i said, as a parliament we have pushed the human rights agenda very strongly; we have created the sakharov prize network as a permanent dialogue on human rights. you and i have spoken hundreds of times on various official visits – to china, to russia, to the south caucasus, in defence of individual cases. for someone who was born in an occupied country and brought up in an oppressed country, it is natural to argue for human rights and human dignity. i was proud to see the support i received from you when i came to standing up for this issue. we did not forget that in many countries in the world women are still oppressed and humiliated. i was a strong partisan of equal treatment of men and women –in politics, in business and in social and family life – in the world and in europe. women’s rights are simply human rights. point number three: today citizens’ ‘virtual participation’ is changing the world we live in. today citizens are much better connected. they are as well-informed as politicians are. this brings quite a new challenge. how to ensure credibility in the decision-making process? how to ensure trust for the activities of our politicians? what can be the role of the european parliament in this context? today a particular responsibility lies with the parliament – it is not only a guarantor of the stability of the political scene, but also has the task of creating a courageous vision for europe. the citizens expect that it will present such a vision and a new kind of european dream. reconnecting the citizens will help to give another non-economic meaning to the definition of deepening and widening of europe. governance, free markets, the single currency – these are absolutely insufficient as a basis for community. we need one more crucial factor. the most important one: european civic activity. as jean monnet said, ‘we are not uniting states, we are uniting human beings.’ let me address the citizens of europe directly. i understand that you may be disappointed, but europe in many respects is the best place in the world. it is our european diversity, creativity and openness that can best satisfy your aspirations and passions. log in to our common european space; it is your space. and please do not let yourself be persuaded that there is a contradiction between being a good pole and a good european, a good british citizen and a european citizen, a good spaniard and at the same time a good european. this alternative is an absolutely false one. europe allows you to discover the magic of the word ‘and’: being a good citizen of your town, region, country and your continent. paradoxically, through this crisis we are starting to see the emergence of a true demos. europeans can see how interdependent we are. one country can undermine the whole economy, but many countries working together can solve the problem. this is why i have pushed for greater dialogue with people and promoted the idea of a european civic space and in all my visits within the eu. democracy built in such a way could be stronger than financial markets which are so influential in our political decisions and everyday lives. and the last point is about planning for our european union, our common future. i believe that we need something like a new deal for europe. our real problem is the lack of mutual trust and the loss of a sense of meaning. the historian norman davis wrote in vanished kingdoms, ‘it is precisely through such a loss of purpose that powers fall’. we need a common project and not a mortgage on the next generation’s future. in the 1930s, while our continent was sliding towards tragedy, president roosevelt saved democracy and the free market economy in the united states of america with his new deal. today our crisis demands a new deal for europe. let me repeat shortly what i already said, and share my own vision of the future in three points. first, we need a new wave of political integration. for the long term, the community interest benefits our individual interest. the idea of a common civilisation and cultural space has been strong in europe for centuries. what we need today is to find the optimal political solution that will be fitting for our times. let me be very clear, we do not want a superstate. so let us decide how in practice we can realise the idea of ‘unity in diversity’, while redesigning the necessary solutions. while discussing possible treaty changes or new treaties, i want to recall that without a return to a genuine spirit of cooperation or – a ‘destiny shared in common’ as robert schuman put it – we will not succeed. change is not about new rules. it is about a commitment to live by those rules. this is about a state of mind. second, we need a new wave of economic integration. we need to create a real fiscal and economic union. john donne once said, ‘no man is an island’. i would say, no country is an island and i do not speak about geography. member states that want to go forward need to respect the treaty of lisbon. no country has the right to stop others working closer together. those who stay outside cannot expect to be main players. (applause)my hope remains that the frictions that have appeared using this intergovernmental method will lead to more, not less, use of the treaty of lisbon and the community method. for this reason i call for a greater involvement of the european parliament in this discussion and the decision-making process. third and last point, we need to create a true european civic space. as i mentioned earlier, while creating a new vision for europe we need to discuss issues which are close to each of us: security, the possibility to realise your own destiny, an active life in local communities, and the feeling of belonging. europe needs more solidarity, more responsibility, more respect for values, as well as enthusiasm. it was built on dreams and we have no right to throw those dreams away. in order to better reconnect with europeans, those who think of profit must also think of values. those who gain wealth must be responsible. those who are concerned about their prosperity – about which there is nothing wrong – must be concerned about equality, and those who believe in competition must come to believe in justice. my last sentences: i would like to thank each and every member of the european parliament for your contribution and cooperation. throughout my term in office i have played a part in resolving the tensions between the various eu institutions, leaders of member states, and the states themselves. on many occasions i have been close to losing hope that a settlement would be found. but in general, we reached a compromise. this is why i am optimistic today. i have never had doubts about a common europe. representing you in europe, and around the world, i was able to perceive the full, distinctive borders of the european project, as well as its exceptional, human, moral, economic and cultural potential. the european union is an incredible value, one worth working for and living in. but it is a value that can be created and used only if we are united. it is this very europe that i will always serve with energy and determination. it is not only as hungarian, czech, swedish, french or german men and women that we sit in this house. we also sit here as europeans, to solve european problems and come up with joint solutions. i dream of this european parliament, uniting so many nations, being a body making real changes on behalf of our citizens. (applause) mogę z wielką dumą powiedzieć: jestem polakiem i jestem europejczykiem i dlatego tak bardzo wierzę w naszą wspólną europejską przyszłość. nigdy nie bierzmy naszej europejskiej integracji jako danej raz na zawsze, musimy się codziennie o nią troszczyć. dziękuję bardzo! (zgromadzeni zgotowali mówcy owację na stojąco)
in writing. − today we adopted an important report on the annual report on eu competition policy. this is already 40 reports, because this policy is one of the basic ones in the union and is very important for the functioning of the single european market, which, as i said during the debate, is the basis for economic success in the union. i am glad that the commission, and in particular mr barroso's commission, is very active in regulating the conditions of competition in financial markets. the activities of the newly established monitoring and supervisory agencies will probably contribute to the discipline of financial markets. the european commission's actions in the area of the telecommunications market have also produced positive results. but we must be aware of the need for new regulations in the services market, as well as in the energy and food markets.
in writing. − i support the openness of the european institutions and the widest possible access to documents for citizens. while it is an expression of the right to good administration, transparency is also an excellent tool for its control. extending the definition of a document to all electronic media can greatly facilitate access to them. the practice of broadcasting parliament's proceedings online, both at plenary level and at committee level, is a good example of openness and transparency. the commission should also give a clear signal of its willingness to ensure that the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies operate in a more transparent way. blocking of public information may be manifested by various restrictions on access to documents, including at the stage of their preparation. therefore, the decision to refuse to make a document available should be based on clear and precise rules specifying specific exceptions. the citizen should be given a comprehensive statement of the reasons for such a decision. i support the resolution.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the document on the european maritime safety agency. emsa has repeatedly proven to be an important link in the european safety system. in the context of the gulf disaster, i support the proposal to extend the competence of emsa to the supervision of oil and gas platforms. i also agree with the new priorities on which we have reached an interinstitutional compromise: the realisation of the concept of a european maritime area without barriers, the promotion of maritime professions and the improvement of the safety of maritime installations. at the same time, in the context of today's debate, i would like to remind the commission of an idea i put forward some time ago. i call for the organisation of a joint european maritime training centre. the aim of such a centre would be to coordinate the adaptation of the teaching systems of maritime higher education institutions throughout the european union to the changing needs of community maritime transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation extending the scope of the maritime safety agency. the agency has proved to be increasingly effective in its eight years of operation. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the extension of the agency's work must be linked to additional financial resources. eur 154 million was provided to the agency between 2007 and 2013. now her financial prospects are completely unclear. i am therefore afraid that the legitimate scaling up of the agency will be hampered by the lack of additional resources.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the latest un estimates put the death toll at over 4,000, mostly civilians, in president assad's endless bloody crackdown on his people. once again, in recent months, we have taken up the issue of syria in parliament, which clearly shows the need to intensify efforts to stabilise the situation in the country. in supporting the resolution, i wish to express my regret at the russian and chinese veto of a security council resolution condemning the syrian regime. at the same time, i demand an immediate end to the use of violence against syrian citizens. the arab league's stance on a peaceful solution to the conflict is encouraging. i would also like to pay special tribute to turkey, which has given refuge to a large number of refugees. at the same time, i call for diplomatic action to be taken against iran, which continues to actively support the syrian regime and its brutal repression. stopping the bloodshed must be the primary objective of our policy towards syria.
in writing. - a few days ago, the so-called six-pack regulations came into force. in order for this legislative package to work as effectively as possible, it is necessary to establish an appropriate set of macroeconomic indicators and to indicate their alert levels, which require the application of preventive and corrective mechanisms, i.e. which guarantee the possibility of early detection of imbalances in the external and internal economies of the member states and allow the european commission to respond adequately. the european parliament resolution is a response to the ec's proposals on these indicators and points out areas where the commission's proposal could be improved. in particular, attention should be drawn to the insufficient account taken of spillover effects and unemployment rate dynamics. it should also be noted that the ep has not been consulted on this matter, which makes the draft resolution prepared by the econ committee the only effective way to have parliament's voice heard on this matter. that is why i voted to adopt the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on the single transport area is a resolution with the right direction. it reflects the thinking of the european union's most important politicians. however, i would like to point out that there are still considerable differences in transport infrastructure between the east and the west of the european union. sustainable regional development should therefore be promoted, which requires a particular increase in the resources allocated to less developed areas. this effort will lead to the creation of a unified transport area after years. the european freight transport market is expected to grow by about 40% by 2013. passenger transport by about 34%. the different modes of transport should therefore not compete with each other but complement each other effectively. this requires in particular an increase in expenditure on rail transport.
in writing. - i would like to draw attention, as does the rapporteur, to the vital point that we are forgetting by blindly following the money. although we, as the european union, declare our fight for human rights and sometimes even support the victims of the struggle by sending troops, we forget about the tools we have in our hands, which we can use without spilling blood. i therefore support the suspension of the signing of the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan, particularly as regards the textile sector. we cannot allow thousands of children to suffer, who are used to harvest cotton. we can't afford to have that kind of hypocrisy. at the same time, dialogue with the uzbek authorities should be pursued to change the situation so that a trade agreement is also possible.
in writing. − the development of relations with the countries of central asia is of strategic importance for europe. these are dynamic developing countries, and they are very important to the world economy. four years is a good time to sum up the results of the eu strategy for the region. the regularity of meetings and the strengthening of relations between high-level representatives is particularly encouraging, especially in the face of events as important as the global crisis. the number of eu missions in these countries is also very small, with only three, so i have high hopes for the proposal to set up a regional interparliamentary forum. another important requirement is the need to increase eu funding for programmes in the region. this also involves developing a strategy for their proper absorption. i agree with the assumption that the pillars of policy towards these countries must be security, the rule of law and respect for human rights and genuine regional cooperation. i support the resolution.
in writing. − central asia is a significant regional player for many economic, political and strategic reasons. thus in 2007 the eu introduced a strategy towards the five central asian countries, aiming to strengthen and improve the structure and relations between the two regions. this strategy included high-level periodic meetings, cooperation with civil society, resources management and more. due to changing regional dynamics in central asia, caused by inter-ethnic riots, new geostrategic configurations as well as the nato operation in afghanistan, the eu has asked to review its 2007 strategy and evaluate its success. the results of this review indicated shortcomings in the 2007 strategy, as standards of good governance and respect to human rights have only slightly improved. in the current state of affairs i welcome the eu’s review and desire to reshape its approach towards central asia. yet i remain hopeful the new strategy will prioritise democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law above any economic, energy or security interests. this is vital for yielding positive results and for maintaining the eu’s credibility. the new strategy for central asia genuinely demonstrates eu’s dedication to the region, for enforced and better cooperation can lead to significant social, economic and political achievements.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. rafiq tagi was indeed a symbol of a free media. his family, azerbaijani citizens and ngos are all calling for a real, honest investigation. remember that azerbaijan is a member of the eastern partnership, so i call on all countries and governments involved in this program to put pressure on the azerbaijani authorities. after all, it is unacceptable that citizens - i am thinking here of mr. bahtiyar hajiyev, for example - go to jail for organizing events on facebook. i myself organized a facebook event "freedom lamps" on december 10th, international human rights day, and thousands of people in krakow were able to remember this important day and the people whose freedom is being violated. we cannot allow people to go to prison for similar actions in other countries, and in the eastern partnership countries. i would like to ask that mr tagi be awarded the eastern partnership journalism prize at the eastern partnership civil society forum next year.
in writing. despite 20 years of independence and the fact that it is one of the fastest growing economies in the world, authoritarian governments and control over the social life of citizens are still being strengthened in azerbaijan. the restrictions and violations of basic human rights by intimidating and suppressing the speech of those who dare to criticize the authorities are common. independent media and opposition journalists are particularly vulnerable, often facing prison sentences for their content. the government is indifferent to their fate, as exemplified by the character of rafiq taghi. as a result of his journalistic activities, tagi was imprisoned for inciting religious hatred. his articles aroused the displeasure of muslims, who issued a fatwa condemning him to death, and the authorities did not protect him from the possibility of fulfilling these threats. a few weeks ago, rafig tagi died from injuries sustained by unknown assailants. the incident coincided with the international day of impunity and sparked protests by journalists around the world, who called for an end to the killings of their colleagues and demanded punishment for those responsible. we should show solidarity with the azerbaijani media and strive to maintain freedom of speech in azerbaijan and call on the international community to end impunity for attacks on journalists not only in this country but also around the world.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? it seems incredible that in the 21st century, there are still countries that exclude women from active public and economic life. in afghanistan and pakistan, women are marginalized, denied the opportunity to develop and reach their full potential. many bans, punishments, physical or psychological discrimination restricting women's areas of activity are commonplace in these countries. the situation of afghan women has improved somewhat in recent years following the fall of the taliban regime. however, the conditions of women in pakistan have deteriorated significantly due to the introduction of discriminatory regulations such as the religious sentiments protection act, which allows the persecution of women and minority groups. therefore, a review of women's rights in the domestic law of both countries should be a first step towards ensuring women's decent living conditions, including the right to professional and personal development, including the protection of women's safety in schools and at work. given the long-standing and long-standing assistance offered by the union to both countries, it is our duty not only to express concern about discrimination against women but also to call for equal treatment between the sexes.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. according to reuters, afghanistan is the number one country in the world for women's rights violations. third on this list of shame is pakistan. there is religious and cultural sanction for acid throwing, stoning, honor killings. the reason is the lack of worldview neutrality of the states. the dominant religion, which denies women many of their human rights, has a decisive influence on the situation of women. half of the women in prison in afghanistan have been convicted of so-called moral crimes, such as adultery, leaving a husband, or running away from home. ninety percent of afghan women have been beaten, raped, psychologically harassed, forced into marriage against their will. despite the intervention of nato forces, the situation of women in afghanistan has not improved, but rather deteriorated. laws designed to protect them have caused even more aggression on the part of men. we must oppose this with all our might.
mr president, at the beginning of december the international community met with afghani authorities at the bonn ii conference. afghanistan made a commitment to include the upholding of human rights commitments in its constitution, including equality between men and women, which is to be welcomed and supported by the european union. looking ahead to 2014 when the allied forces withdraw from afghanistan and afghanistan has full independence to run its own affairs, it is imperative that progress is not undone. the peace dialogue at present underway between the government and elements of the taliban should in no way result in a deterioration of the rights acquired by women, and we as the eu should give support in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! the arrest of zakariya bouguirra on november 13th is another alarming case of human rights violations in tunisia, a country that has just emerged from ben ali's dictatorship. zakaria bouguira tried to record with his phone the moment of the violent clash between tunisian police and moroccan football fans. for this he was beaten by the police and put in jail. his case has raised international concern, as it came less than a month after the country held democratic elections. we recognise the challenges of the change and will support the country's move towards a broad-based democracy, but we must also strongly protest against the acts of violence and human rights violations that we are witnessing today. the newly elected government should implement the necessary reforms as soon as possible to make tunisia a true state of law, where the principles of democracy are respected and the rights and civil liberties that should also be enjoyed by zakariya bouguirre are respected.
mr. chairman, please! the alarming fact is that the tunisian police force is using violence and human rights violations in an uncontrolled manner. tunisia must undoubtedly reform its law enforcement and judicial sectors as soon as possible. they should be covered by regulations guaranteeing respect for human rights and imposing sanctions for their violation. i particularly support the call for the creation of a national human rights council to safeguard international human rights standards. the institution could also deal with individual complaints from citizens and investigate cases of human rights violations. the european union should make the best use of its neighbourhood policy instruments to support the process of democratic transition in tunisia.
