on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, some colleagues took the initiative of putting an urgency resolution on the agenda on brazil’s refusal to extradite cesare battisti to italy. i understand their motives, but as i shall demonstrate, this is not at present a human rights case. it is not an urgent case and it is not even a ‘breach of the rule of law’ case. furthermore, it comes at a terrible moment when brazil is facing the worst natural disaster in its history. cesare battisti is in prison. he is awaiting the decision of the brazilian supreme court and the supreme court is currently not in session during the southern hemisphere’s summer holiday. there is no reason to believe that there will not be an independent decision. i expressed my solidarity with the families of the victims in this case, and rest assured i have no sympathy with political violence either from the right or the left, but we should use the urgencies to debate southern sudan, the case of buchtar tabuni in indonesia, or the palestinian man shot dead in his bed. is the parliament going to allocate to president dilma rousseff, just after her groundbreaking election and for no sound formal reason, the kind of debate that we usually reserve for people like mugabe? i would ask you to remove brazil from the urgencies on the agenda.
madam president, it is never too much to say that europe has higher standards than anywhere else in the world for the quality of food products and that image cannot be called into question. it is demanded by our consumers, by the markets to which we export and by our producers, who put a great deal of work and investment into complying with them. if the contamination that recently occurred in germany had happened in many other parts of the world, we would probably never have even known about it. but no, i'm not. it happened in the european union. and what happened in germany is unacceptable and must not only be fully clarified but also the perpetrators of what appears to be a crime and not an accident must be held accountable. the source of the contamination does not seem to be fully understood and this causes me great uneasiness. the responsibility of the german authorities for any failure to control is not clearly defined. it seems that the knowledge was due to a communication from the company and not to a control by the authorities. the people responsible are not known and the seriousness of this situation requires an objective clarification by the commission.
madam president, commissioner, the discovery of products contaminated with dioxins and their dissemination through various marketing channels is a matter of the utmost seriousness. without prejudice to fully identifying the responsibilities and consequences of this and tracing the fate of the contaminated products, this incident calls for a deeper reflection on the failure of the entire existing regulatory framework. here is an example of the consequences of a market-oriented common agricultural policy which promotes intensive export-oriented production models, favours large agro-industry and destroys small and mediumsized farming and family farming. it makes it impossible, rather than possible, to promote local production and consumption which would be much more traceable. here is another example of how, also for reasons of public health and food safety and quality, a profound change in the current common agricultural policy is necessary.
the ec should urge germany and all countries involved in this matter to take appropriate measures to address this situation, impose sanctions and ensure that all those involved in this dioxin crisis bear full responsibility for the vast damage caused to the agro-livestock, processing and consumer sectors. the fact that some feed producers have been aware of this dioxin contamination since march 2010 without reporting it to the public authorities is totally unacceptable. it is therefore urgent to inform all member states and third countries with great transparency about all details of potentially contaminated food. all foodstuffs that do not comply with eu legislation must be identified and withdrawn from the market. it is necessary to ensure that all measures are taken to protect public health, to have timely and detailed information on developments in the situation and to report on them as closely and transparently as possible, so that we can return to normalcy and consumer confidence in the food chain as quickly as possible.
madam president, illegal logging in central african countries such as cameroon and the congo is a threat to the integrity of resources on which the existence and livelihoods of local communities and indigenous peoples depend. a threat to an ecosystem which is a repository of enormous biodiversity and of great importance in the regulation of biogeochemical cycles. in view of the progress of the destruction of the tropical forest in this region - fuelled, let us not forget, by the demand of operators and importers from the industrialized countries, particularly the european union - the solution cannot be to legalize what is now illegal, namely the unsustainable exploitation of the forest, in some way legitimizing the usurpation of land from local communities and the occupation of large areas of forest by logging companies, as is happening. the european union's development cooperation and aid policy plays a very important role here, supporting the diversification of the economies of these countries and reversing a model based on the high dependence on the exploitation and export of a small number of raw materials to the industrialized countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs angelilli on the opportunity to put this oral question. i am of the opinion that we must develop more effective child protection policies aimed at preventing situations of poverty, abuse and abandonment of children and, at the same time, alternatives to their placement in institutions, where adoption should play a crucial role. unicef recognizes that the number of children in institutions has not decreased and that the increase in adoptions has fallen far short of the increase in the number of children in institutions, so we have to do a little soul-searching. it is important to make a general assessment of the law and administrative and judicial practice in relation to adoption procedures in the various member states in order to identify any obstacles to their proper functioning. and in relation to third countries, we must keep an eye on the problem of irregular or illegal adoptions, which mainly affects the poorest regions. this is the case, for example, in guinea-bissau, where more than 50% of children are not registered, which facilitates the development of criminal activity by child trafficking networks. i therefore believe that a european strategy is needed to protect the interests of children in the context of intercountry adoption procedures, in order to prevent and prevent the abduction, sale or trafficking of human beings.
mr president, 2010 has come to an end, declared the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion, a year in which the european union, with unprecedented cynicism and hypocrisy, put in place policies and guidelines which have had and have the consequence of significantly increasing poverty and social exclusion. in portugal, the 2011 state budget, designed and approved under pressure and applause from the european union, will lead the country into economic recession and social regression, with rising unemployment, already at historic levels, and widespread poverty and social exclusion. in addition to all this, there has been unacceptable pressure and blackmail on the country in recent weeks, and we would like to denounce here the growing threat of financial capital and the institutions at its service, so that the country and its people submit and accept injustice and squandering, so that they accept the drainage of the country's resources into the pockets of financial capital. one thing is certain: we're in for a year of a lot of fighting if you persist on this path.
i would like to congratulate mrs sârbu on the excellence of her report and urge the commission to take it into account, particularly in those areas where the complex nature of agricultural issues - which go far beyond the strictly agricultural dimension - requires the involvement of other areas such as competition in the internal market and financial regulation, and also requires their treatment in other fora outside the community such as the g20 or the wto. the issues which are absolutely crucial for agriculture, for farmers and for the provision of sufficient quantity and quality of food to the people of europe and the world can only be tackled effectively if they are tackled in all these dimensions, and the ambitious objectives of the cap reform can only be achieved if the reform goes beyond the narrow limits of agriculture and its objectives are also taken into account in the necessary interventions in the other policy areas and in the other global bodies. this report has made that very clear and i commend it for that.
mr president, the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, which this report is talking about, is inseparable from the recognition and promotion of the concept of food sovereignty. the greater a country's food dependence, the greater its food insecurity, the greater the difficulty in ensuring that its population is supplied with food in sufficient quantity and quality. food sovereignty is the best insurance against the volatility of food prices, a subject which is dramatically coming back on the agenda. this volatility has been caused mainly by financial speculation in food products, an area where speculators, investment funds, hedge funds, pension funds, large banks, have been concentrating as other speculative bubbles have been drying up or bursting. the only way to stop this speculation is to stop the instruments that enable it, in particular some financial products such as otc derivatives. unfortunately, the measures taken by the european union in this area are far from being able to stop this sinister speculative machine and its inhuman consequences, as a recent un report by the special rapporteur on the right to food acknowledges.
mr president, may i ask the prime minister for his attention, please. i am here, on your left, mr prime minister. i need to have a frank conversation with you. i have a text in portuguese but i am going to improvise in english because that was the language you used in what, for me, was the most important part of your speech, when you said: ‘look at refugees. look at the refugees if you think that war and peace is not important for europe’. you were addressing the new generations. i have to admit that my heart jumped when you said that, because i am the european parliament rapporteur for refugees. during your presidency you could have done more than look at refugees. you could have done something to help; it was not difficult. the council could have finished the co-decision procedure which parliament started on resettlement of refugees. in our part of the co-decision we increased the money that we give to member states to resettle refugees; we established categories of priorities for people who have been raped, who have been tortured and who have diseases, and are waiting in camps to be resettled. the council has not completed the co-decision. it seems that it was because of article 290 and delegated acts – something which is in the treaty of lisbon. you say: ‘look at refugees’. but i challenge you to do what we did, go to the al-hol camp in syria. then tell refugees to look at article 290, look at delegated acts. they will say: ‘what are you talking about? my kids are not going to school; i do not have a passport; we are stuck in a refugee camp; why are you talking about a minor institutional problem when you could have done something to help our problem?’ this will tarnish the belgian presidency. i am sorry to say this; i say it in sadness.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the belgian government on the success of its presidency, despite the difficult conditions in which it has developed, as has already been mentioned. and in the area which i have followed most closely, i would like to congratulate and thank minister milquet for her commitment and determination in the conduct of the dossier on the maternity leave directive, despite the fact that the council did not follow it. we hope that the hungarian presidency will give this matter due weight. mr leterme recalled the dream that guided the founders of the european project in contrast to the single market, and mr barroso stressed the importance of the community spirit. i think they are good reminders in the current context, where we need more unity and more solidarity to face the challenges ahead.
in writing. - since, according to the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, council and commission, the proposal in question contains the codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance, i approve its adoption at first reading.
in writing. - at this part-session, following a proposal for an amendment from the ep and the council, parliament considered a draft legislative resolution on the merger of public limited liability companies (codified version) and approved the proposal submitted by the commission. the proposal aims only at the pure and simple codification of legislative texts without altering the substance and improving working methods, and taking into account that it incorporates the formalities suggested and justified by the legal services advisory group, i am voting in favour of this proposal, aware that it will result in a significant improvement in the functioning of public limited companies, in particular by modernising and streamlining them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, taking into account that the proposal in question is limited to the codification of existing texts on mergers of public limited liability companies. the consultative working party, composed of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, concluded by common accord on 21 september 2010, after examining the proposal for the codification of the third council directive 78/855/eec of 9 october 1978 based on article 54 (3) (g) of the treaty on the merger of public limited liability companies, that the proposal in question was in fact a mere codification of the existing texts without any substantive amendment.
in writing. - according to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the amended proposal for a directive on mergers of public limited liability companies merely codifies the existing texts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, which has been applied provisionally since 1 january 2007.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this resolution. i support the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. - the text of the legislative resolution we voted on was subject to the simplified procedure provided for in rule 46. i believe that this is justified in view of the non-contradictory nature of the subject matter to which it relates. the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european communities and jordan should include bulgaria and romania, and the proposed protocol is therefore valid and deserves the unanimous support of the european parliament.
in writing. − the euro-mediterranean agreement establishes an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, and the protocol updates the agreement in view of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, which has been provisionally applied since 1 january 2007. in this legislative resolution, the council requests the european parliament to approve the protocol. having nothing to prevent your approval, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the present recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union, deserves my vote in favour. it is vital to pursue a sound, coherent and effective neighbourhood policy. since the council, in accordance with the legal provisions of the treaties, has submitted to the european parliament a request for the approval of the said protocol, nothing prevents its adoption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol, which is fully justified in view of the need to include bulgaria and romania as contracting parties to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, of the other part, signed in brussels on 24 november 1997 and which entered into force on 1 may 2002.
in writing. recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the economic and monetary union of west africa on certain aspects of air services. i voted in favour of the resolution on a draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the west african economic and monetary union on certain aspects of air services. the community currently has exclusive competence in respect of several aspects of external aviation. the council authorized the commission to open negotiations with third countries to replace certain provisions in existing bilateral agreements with community agreements. the commission has negotiated an agreement with the west african economic and monetary union which avoids discrimination between eu air carriers; allows the taxation of aviation fuel for operations within the european union; and brings clearly anti-competitive provisions in bilateral agreements (compulsory commercial agreements between airlines) into line with community competition law.
in writing. − the transfer of competence from the member states to the communities has justified the replacement of bilateral agreements on external aviation by new agreements to which the european community is a party. the resolution adopted deals with precisely such issues and aims to harmonize the existing international legal instruments with the present reality of european integration and to adapt them to the additional requirements arising from community law. the matter in question is eminently technical, involving the replacement of previously existing agreements by new ones, and not involving any contentious or ideological differences of any kind. the unanimous vote in favour of the report in committee confirms this interpretation. it was therefore for the plenary to ratify a consensus decision. i voted for it.
in writing. the report by mr dieter-lebrecht koch suggests the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and the economic and monetary union of west africa on certain aspects of air services. the spirit of the european union in the treaties is to standardise procedures throughout the eu. it therefore makes no sense as the court of justice of the european union has ruled that in matters such as this there are bilateral air service agreements between eu member states and member states of the west african economic and monetary union. i therefore welcome the adoption of this agreement, which will strengthen the bonds of european territorial cohesion and encourage respect for community competition law.
in writing. - in the current concrete framework in which civil aviation activity is developing, this proposed agreement raises serious doubts as to its scope and possible consequences. if until now the member states have been sovereign in deciding on the organisation and scope of the agreements to be drawn up in this field, with obvious impacts on airlines, in a sector which is, for various reasons, strategic for safeguarding national interests, from now on the market is to prevail here too. in particular, we cannot underestimate the fact that the alleged creation of a level playing field for the various european airlines can compete for the facilitation of monopolistic concentration in the sector (a process already under way) and for the reduction of the capacity of member states to defend their flag carriers. the free competition, which is always mentioned and which must be defended at all costs, is once again the cornerstone on which this initiative is based. the consequences in this and other sectors are not substantially different: it is the monopolistic concentration that always ends up imposing itself in these scenarios. for these reasons, we did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - the existence of 47 bilateral agreements between eu member states and member states of the west african economic and monetary union is manifestly inadequate to frame the various aspects of air services. the agreement is therefore welcome in order to replace certain existing provisions in bilateral agreements with community agreements. the agreement highlights the issues of non-discrimination between european air carriers and the taxation of aviation fuel in accordance with the respective directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity. the agreement also complies with community competition law.
in writing. - the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the economic and monetary union of west africa on certain aspects of air services. on the basis of the current exclusive competence of the european union in this field, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with third countries to replace the traditional bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries. the draft agreement was examined by the committee on transport and tourism, which delivered a favourable opinion, highlighting, among other points, the creation of a community designation clause to avoid discrimination between eu air carriers and the taxation of aviation fuel in operations carried out in the territory of the european union. these two points, which i emphasize in the favourable opinion of the committee on transport, are the reasons why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, which, within the framework of the exclusive competence granted to the eu in respect of various aspects of external aviation, is intended to replace certain provisions of the current 47 bilateral air services agreements between eu member states and member states of the economic and monetary union of west africa, in order to bring them into line with community law.
in writing. − the exclusive competence in certain areas of external aviation, established in 2003 in the open skies judgment, allows the european commission to negotiate agreements with third countries in order to bring the european aviation market into line with community rules and, at the same time, to make it competitive and transparent. i welcome the approval of this agreement with the member states of the west african economic and monetary union, and consider it essential that the european union should present a policy of coherence in this sector of external aviation, gradually reducing the various provisions of the existing bilateral air services agreements between the two parties. i would stress the non-discrimination clause in the agreement between european airlines, the taxation of aviation fuel in accordance with the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity, the conformity of the provisions of the bilateral agreements with community competition law and regulatory control, measures which will allow the opening up of markets and, consequently, the creation of investment opportunities for both parties. these agreements should be seen as a way of strengthening strategic cooperation between the two organisations.
in writing. - i agree with the need to take action in the construction sector, which is very important for the european economy (10% of gdp) and represents some 65 000 smes with less than 250 employees. the proposal aims to ensure a high level of safety for construction products and to improve the health and safety conditions of workers in the sector. trade in the internal market is currently hampered by national technical rules which restrict the free movement of goods and services in the construction sector, and therefore a revision of directive 89/106/eec on construction products is necessary. the proposal for a regulation on harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products can be an important milestone in updating, simplifying and replacing the relevant directive in the light of new circumstances in the field of market surveillance, including the new legislative framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it establishes harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and aims to update, simplify and replace the construction products directive in the light of a new situation, in particular as regards market surveillance, including the new legislative framework. given the size of the construction sector, it is urgent to take measures regarding the marketing of construction products in the eu. i support the recognition of the need for high standards of health and safety for workers in this sector. this proposal will remove barriers to trade for manufacturers and, on the other hand, help businesses to continue their activity and workers to keep their jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to reduce the barriers to trade in the construction sector. the current economic downturn has seriously damaged this sector. the proposed regulation, which will replace the current directive, will help to reverse this situation. on the one hand, the removal of barriers to trade for manufacturers will help companies to continue their activity and on the other hand, it will help workers to keep their jobs.
in writing. - according to the figures in the report, which i quote: the construction sector is one of the largest industrial sectors in europe, accounting for 10% of gdp and 50.5% of gross fixed capital. not only does this sector directly employ 12 million community citizens, but 26 million workers depend on it. moreover, some 92% of the manufacturers of building materials, or 65,000 companies, are smes with fewer than 250 employees. these figures give a true picture of the importance of the construction sector to the european economy. this is why common rules are needed to regulate the sector and to allow the internal market to function properly.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation aims to harmonise the marketing of construction materials by updating and simplifying the current directive, taking into account the new legislative framework (regulation (ec) no 765/2008 and decision no 768/2008/ec). it covers a number of aspects such as: declaration of performance and ce marking, transport of dangerous substances, national contact points for information on construction products, independence and transparency of all bodies involved in this field, recycling of construction products, greater attention to health and safety issues, improvement of electronic communications and introduction of new computer methods. i approve this regulation, which will certainly increase the safety of transporting these products, protect the health and safety of all workers in the sector and contribute to the gradual abandonment of practices harmful to the environment.
in writing. - despite some positive aspects of the second reading of this report and the final agreement with the council, it must not be forgotten that the latter is focused on the principle of consolidating the single market. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the conditions under which construction products may be placed on the market. in other words, it sets out the rules that companies and member states must comply with in order for their products to enter the european union market. i think we can all agree on certain points, particularly when it comes to protecting the health and safety, including that of workers, but also of those involved in the use of the product during its life cycle, especially when it comes to dangerous substances. but we cannot agree to decisions which endanger the production of these products in countries with weaker economies or smes which have difficulty in adapting, without any prior support, just to defend the interests of european economic groups which in fact want to dominate the market.
in writing. the high share of the construction sector in eu gdp, representing about 10% of gdp and about 50.5% of gross fixed capital, according to the rapporteur, justifies the harmonisation conditions approved here. the recent economic downturn has brought severe problems to this industry, with companies going bankrupt and workers losing their jobs. so any measure taken to help this sector is very important. in this context, the revision of directive 89/106/eec on construction products is a much needed boost which will help the sector, in particular by removing barriers to trade for manufacturers, and help businesses to continue their activities and workers to keep their jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary to reduce the barriers which prevent greater trade flows in the construction sector. in the present economic climate, in which the construction sector has been particularly affected, the proposed regulation aims to promote the free movement of goods and services in an efficient and transparent manner for the construction sector. the removal of obstacles to cross-border activities and the elimination of national administrative and technical barriers play a key role in the construction sector. in the construction sector, member states rely on national technical standards to block the free movement of goods and services. with the construction sector accounting for 10% of the european union's gdp and the sector currently experiencing a severe recession, any measures that can be taken to help boost construction are welcome and i will vote in favour of them. these measures will allow firms to continue their activities and workers to keep their jobs.
in writing. - given the importance of the construction sector in the european economy, it is essential to remove technical barriers to trade in construction products in order to promote their free movement within the internal market. it is therefore necessary to support the establishment of harmonised technical specifications which, by giving the necessary emphasis to health and safety issues, also make it possible to consolidate the single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to improve the effectiveness of eu humanitarian aid. the eu humanitarian consensus is a great step forward. however, the evaluation of its action plan should be more consistent, with more measurable objectives and more reliable indicators. only then can we help more effectively. in view of the increasing number and intensity of natural disasters caused by climate change, i agree with the position that not only timely aid is important, but also support for the communities' own capacities to prepare better for disasters, and that the hyogo action plan needs to be strengthened. it is also necessary to focus efforts on human rights issues arising from internal conflicts and complex crises, by improving the capacity of actors to reach out to populations, which can only be achieved through a clear distinction of roles between political, military and humanitarian decision-makers. i also agree with the effective implementation of a european rapid response capacity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european union is the world's leading donor of humanitarian aid, contributing more than 40% of official international humanitarian assistance and providing humanitarian aid to some 115 million people in more than 70 countries in 2009, with a total contribution of eur 950 million. the european union's humanitarian policy demonstrates its commitment to the people of third countries in situations of extreme vulnerability. i agree with the mid-term review of the humanitarian consensus because i believe that efforts are needed to increase its visibility to member states, other institutions and military actors. i urge the european commission to redouble its efforts in disaster risk reduction, to pay attention to the (increasingly frequent) violations of international humanitarian law, as well as to the most vulnerable groups such as women, children and people displaced under duress. it is also important to encourage dialogue between political, military and humanitarian actors sharing the same operational environment, and to create a european rapid reaction capability (european civil protection force).
in writing. − in the mid-term evaluation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid, i cannot but regret that its public awareness has not been as desirable as it should have been and that the role of the member states in its implementation has been limited. but more than pointing out shortcomings, we need to promote and define the way forward in humanitarian aid. the humanitarian context has changed considerably in recent years (natural disasters, increased displacement, the multiplication of various internal conflicts, food crises, etc.). a balanced and effective global response based on concrete needs, results-oriented and guided by the principle that saving livelihoods is saving lives, taking into account the self-development and self-sufficiency of the areas concerned, is more urgent than ever. the promotion of these humanitarian values by the consensus and the optimisation of resources by the various actors is crucial in this regard. once again, i am in favour of the urgent establishment of a european civil protection force, following the barnier report of may 2006. i congratulate mrs michèle striffler on the positive content of the proposals she has put forward and i reiterate my view that the consensus is a fundamental instrument, with all its relevance in the present situation.
in writing. − the european consensus on humanitarian aid, reached on 18 december 2007 by the parliament, the council and the commission, represented an important step forward in the definition, scope and range of european humanitarian aid. we are proceeding with this report, whose conclusions i strongly support, to its mid-term review as provided for in the action plan of may 2008, and i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs michèle striffler, for her excellent work. as regards the ideas expressed in the report, i would stress the focus on genuine and continuous participation of beneficiaries in the management of aid, a principle which i have been advocating, and which should lead the eu to focus its action increasingly on civil society and local authorities, to the detriment of eu-state relations, which should continue to play a role, but not in an exclusive relationship, as has often happened here. i would also stress the need to put forward proposals aimed at establishing a european civil protection force, based on the optimisation of the existing community civil protection mechanism and the mutualisation of existing national resources, which would imply an increase in the marginal cost of the synergies achieved through the use of the capacity already installed in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the humanitarian consensus action plan needs to be revised. the humanitarian context has changed profoundly in recent years, in particular with the significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, also caused by the impact of climate change. it is essential to fully integrate disaster risk reduction into development aid and humanitarian aid policies, which makes a rigorous and strengthened implementation of the humanitarian consensus all the more relevant.
in writing. - the multiplication of catastrophic and humanitarian emergencies is evident throughout the world today. the european union has been playing an important role in combating these scourges and i hope it will maintain it and even strengthen it to the extent of its possibilities. it is not enough, however, to give the fish to the hungry, we must teach them to fish. i believe that almost as important as dealing with emergencies that are occurring is helping to empower the less resourceful countries with the human and material resources that are likely to deal with future crises. the european consensus on humanitarian aid deserves my support and my hope that the commitment of the european institutions will result in an ever better operationalisation of the means at the disposal of the union, always bearing in mind the priority to be given to those who have the least and those who suffer the most and the total exemption from political or ideological agendas.
in writing. - in recent years, the globalised world has seen a significant increase in disasters, both in terms of the geographical area affected and the number of victims. although this is a very important issue, the impact of climate change on these disasters should not be addressed in this context. on 18 december 2007, a significant step forward in humanitarian aid was taken with the signing of the humanitarian consensus (council of the european union, european parliament and european commission), notably by adopting a five-year action plan, which provided for an interim review. that is the aim of this report. the whole world knows and recognises the eu's priority role in humanitarian aid. this parliament has addressed this question at several sittings, including our intervention. indeed, recent events in brazil, haiti, pakistan, madeira and many other places have given us pause to reflect on the effectiveness of civil protection and humanitarian aid support. as this report shows (despite the limited information available), there has been a positive development at european level, as evidenced by the creation of the working group on humanitarian aid and food aid (cohafa). but there is still much to be done!
in writing. - the eu's so-called humanitarian aid plays a significant role in what has come to be known as its foreign policy. often taking advantage of genuine needs for support and cooperation to be met, particularly in emergency situations, the objectives in practice are quite different. the actions and methods employed, including military intervention and occupation, seek to reproduce and deepen forms of political and economic domination, to compete for markets and natural resources in the third world countries. in the present context of the deepening crisis of capitalism, these guidelines are also aimed at containing the struggles of peoples for more justice and social progress, taking on slightly different forms and forms throughout the world. under the guise of a supposed humanitarian interest, various ngos, logistics companies and others are beneficiaries and accomplices of these policies, promoting their own interests or those of their funders, whether public or private, political, profit-making, religious or other. we are in principle in favour of expressions of concrete solidarity with the peoples who are victims of any kind of disaster or conflict. but they must be based on the interests of these peoples, on respect for international law, on the independence and sovereignty of these countries.
in writing. - there is no doubt that natural disasters have become more and more frequent in recent times. it is also true that the eu is one of the world's leading actors in humanitarian aid and, despite the crisis, it is important that this role be maintained. i am of the opinion, however, that, in addition to helping the most disadvantaged and all those affected by such disasters, it is also necessary to provide the poorest countries, and therefore the most vulnerable to such situations, with the human and financial means to prevent external aid from becoming so urgent, and this can only be achieved through development policies and aid to these countries in the medium and long term.
in writing. − the european union, together with the european commission and the member states, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. its contribution represents more than 40% of official international humanitarian assistance. a thorough mid-term evaluation of the implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid can only conclude that it is necessary to contribute to a greater dissemination of this mechanism and to greater coordination and effectiveness among all the entities involved. the economic contribution alone can be sterile if it is not accompanied by close and effective coordination at all stages and forms of community aid. we are living in a crucial moment in which the humanitarian context has been profoundly changing in recent years, which makes it all the more relevant to strictly and strongly implement the humanitarian consensus. i am voting in favour of this report and i call for a policy of systematic dialogue, greater cooperation on the ground, better management and a focus on crisis prevention. i support the creation of a european civil protection force, following the barnier report of may 2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which takes stock of the implementation of the european consensus on humanitarian aid and makes important proposals to help increase its visibility and make it more effective in pursuing its objectives. in the current humanitarian context, marked by a significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, this instrument is of the greatest relevance, and it is curious that efforts are being made to fully implement the commitments arising from it and to involve member states more closely in its implementation.
in writing. - the eu must use innovative initiatives that make use of food surpluses and feed the needy, and the cap should take this into account when revising it. speculative behaviour has been responsible for about 50% of recent price increases and the creation of price stabilisation instruments within international fora should be encouraged through a concerted strategy within the g20. the eu must lead an international movement to create an agreement within the united nations to provide food to countries with these shortages in an effective and permanent way. i would also stress the importance of promoting the credibility of the agricultural sector, particularly by promoting this activity among young people with training and entrepreneurship, as an activity that can be combined with innovation and research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because food security is a human right, achieved when all people have access to enough, safe and nutritious food to meet their needs for an active and healthy life. in europe, 16% of citizens still live below the poverty line and food accessibility remains a key unresolved issue. food security therefore continues to require a strong common agricultural policy. the new cap, which is due to come into force after 2013, must respond to food security and other challenges, including climate change, the economic crisis and maintaining the territorial balance in the eu. on the other hand, the eu's ambitious energy targets have encouraged the large-scale cultivation of biofuels, but their production competes with food production in terms of land use, which has a potentially negative impact on food security.
in writing. - food security is a fundamental human right! today, it is estimated that some 900 million people suffer from chronic hunger, and many more do not have a healthy and sufficient diet because of varying degrees of poverty. achieving the desired food security implies that all people have permanent access (physical and economic) to adequate and safe food that meets their nutritional needs. food security through agricultural policy a strong but coherent common with social concerns: consistent in not allowing production surpluses that distort the market and raise environmental problems; social by ensuring that all social strata have access to food and with quality. i also welcome the approach to the issue of diversity in european agriculture; competitiveness and innovation can and must go hand in hand with traditional, small-scale, organic and local distribution agriculture. financial investment in these sectors will be key to effective land use in certain regions, as will energy investment that reduces the dependence between food and energy security.
in writing. - this is an own-initiative report by the european parliament's committee on agriculture and incorporates ideas and suggestions from all the political groups. in this sense, and with a view to obtaining workable commitments, a very comprehensive text has been produced, linked by a minimum common denominator, with which i generally agree. i consider the right to food security to be a fundamental human right and i consider agriculture to be a strategic sector and absolutely indispensable to the future of our continent. that is, as an inalienable element of our sovereignty as a union of peoples and countries. i would like to say that the right to safe food, which is fundamental, must be guaranteed by our own internal production. a cap is therefore essential to ensure this objective. i would reiterate, however, that the fundamental objective of the cap should be to maintain the competitiveness of european agriculture and to support agricultural activity in the eu in order to ensure food production, especially at local level, and balanced territorial development. i also believe that fair incomes in the agricultural sector should be ensured, because it is only possible to stimulate sustainable and ethical production systems if farmers are properly compensated for the investments they make and the commitments they make.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, because it makes important proposals on how the cap, which is due to come into force after 2013, should respond to the challenges of food security, climate change, economic crisis, maintaining the territorial balance in the eu, among others.
in writing. − the food and agriculture organisation (fao) recently warned of a possible increase in food prices in 2011, after food prices reached new all-time highs in 2010, following the rise during the 2008 food crisis. the fao index of 55 food commodities rose for the sixth consecutive month to 214.7 points, up from the previous all-time high of 213.5 points reached in june 2008. the price of sugar and meat are at new all-time highs and unless there is an increase of at least 2% in cereal production, cereal prices will continue to rise. it is therefore welcome and, as i said in a question to the european commission last week, given that price volatility affects all market players, i believe that concrete measures must be taken within the cap to increase production, to supply markets better and to ensure greater price stability, as well as to ensure production that meets european consumer needs. as i have said, agriculture must be seen, especially in times of crisis, as a strategic sector.
in writing. - food safety, because it is a human right, is a matter that deserves very special attention from the european institutions. in addition to the need for the agricultural sector to produce safe food, it is also essential that there is sufficient food. we must not forget the recommendations of the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao) that we need to increase production by some 70% to feed the world's 9 billion people by 2050. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which recognises the role of the european food safety authority (efsa) as the body responsible for monitoring and reporting on risks in the food chain and encourages member states to set up bodies to work with it. i would also like to stress the recognition of traditional agriculture, in particular organic farming and small-scale production in the less-favoured regions, which is not only an economic asset but also an environmental asset, and is essential for the maintenance of biodiversity. i hope that the new cap will respond effectively to the problems facing the sector: climate change, consumer prices and farmers' incomes.
in writing. the report addresses a burning issue, pointing to relevant problems that threaten food security, such as price volatility as a result of financial speculation, land grabbing in developing countries or insufficient strategic stocks. the approach to each of these problems, as indeed to the whole question of food security, is very incomplete, sometimes contradictory and in some cases wrong. the consequences of the existing agricultural policies, namely the cap and its successive reforms, with the liberalisation of markets and the dismantling of regulatory instruments and the consequent ruin of thousands of small and mediumsized producers, faced with production prices that often do not cover production costs, are omitted. the commission also proposes that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body.
in writing. − this report reaffirms food as a fundamental human right. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the report notes that speculation has been responsible for 50% of recent price increases and thus supports a review of existing legislation on financial instruments in the name of transparency, placing them at the service of the economy and agricultural production, not allowing speculation to jeopardise efficient farms. in a context where food prices are heavily influenced by speculators with no interest in agriculture, it supports restricting access to agricultural markets. however, the financialization of agricultural markets is not structurally compromised. the report also proposes the creation of a specific global food reserve system administered by the united nations. the report also calls on the commission to speed up the approval of the import of genetically modified organisms, which i strongly disagree with. in view of the above and in order to encourage the good intentions and suggestions contained in the report, i abstained.
in writing. − the concept of food security is very explicit and is achieved when all people have, at all times, physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs and preferences for an active and healthy life. there is no doubt, therefore, that the steady rise in food prices, as a consequence of increases in raw materials, is an increasingly pressing concern of the eu. on the other hand, the agricultural sector has to meet the food needs of an increasing number of people, despite facing increasingly limited natural resources and high prices of production factors. in view of future needs, there is no doubt that agriculture must become a strategic, even a crucial, sector for the economic development of the eu and the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the sârbu report, given that agriculture is a sector of growing importance and should be a priority in terms of the political agenda because of its strategic role in the context of food security. the 2013 cap reform should make proposals in this regard. the recent volatility in food and commodity prices has raised major concerns at european and global level. the financial crisis and increasingly severe weather events, such as the prolonged drought and fires in russia in 2010 and the major floods in pakistan, have contributed to enormous instability. the eu cannot be dependent on protectionist decisions by countries such as russia and ukraine, which export some 30% of the world's wheat, or argentina, a major world producer of meat. i believe that the eu has a duty to feed its citizens and the world's population itself, with an estimated growth of 2 billion people and a 70% increase in food needs by 2050. the increase in production must meet criteria relating to the environment, food safety, animal welfare and labour, criteria which the least developed countries, to which distribution has been shifted, are clearly not able to meet.
in writing. - i have stressed on several occasions the central importance of this issue of food safety. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − the term food security highlights the need to take concrete measures to increase the world food stock. a human right that includes people's physical and economic access to healthy, adequate and nutritious food. i consider it extremely important that this report, which places the emphasis on the agricultural sector, should be adopted. the projected population growth and the persistence of poverty imply an increase of at least 70% in food production to meet the needs of the population. climate events, speculation and price volatility have had a negative impact on farmers' capacity. an agricultural policy a post-2013 common capable of guaranteeing the right to food security through a strong focus on competitiveness and innovation, on strengthening the presence of young farmers, capable of revitalizing the sector and responding to new global challenges. there must be an adjustment of the agricultural policy by promoting traditional and local agriculture, in particular organic and local farming.
mr president, in the name of financial consolidation, so-called austerity programmes are aggravating the divisions in the european union, promoting anti-social policies, undermining labour rights and cutting public investment, particularly in the area of innovation and energy. this means that if the same guidelines, the same policies and the same pressures continue to be applied to portugal and other countries with weaker economies, we will see a worsening of the differences and an increasingly serious situation due to the lack of solidarity of the european union. and so the question is what measures will be taken to change the situation, to ensure that innovation is actually supported in countries like portugal and others that do not have sufficient public investment foreseen for these areas and also to ensure that people and industries have access to energy, given the high prices being charged and the difficulties being felt in many places.
mr president, the intention of this directive is clear from the outset: to include health services in the objective of liberalising services and thus to satisfy the interests of economic and financial groups by expanding their business areas in the field of health in all the countries of the european union, treating health as if it were a market good and the users of health services as mere consumers. this proposal will increase inequalities between citizens, harming those who cannot afford to use private health services or health care in another eu member state. the adoption of this directive, even with the amendments that have been made to it, would have serious consequences for some countries, in particular for portugal and its national health service, given the very high costs that it may entail. in practice, the same european union that imposes heavy constraints on national budgets when it comes to financing public services such as health care, does not mind overburdening those budgets when it comes to channelling public money to private economic and financial groups that are engaged in the business of health and to feed health tourism. in addition, this proposal, in its desire to promote business, did not adequately safeguard the safety of users or the quality of health care, particularly in relation to non-hospital care. contrary to what some have said, the prior authorisation system does not adequately address these cases. it is therefore necessary, as in 2007 with the exclusion of health services from the infamous bolkestein directive, that these intentions be defeated again.
mr president, this text is the result of a lot of work and negotiation and i would like to thank my colleagues mr bowis, mr grossetête and mr roth-behrendt for this. it is right to acknowledge the progress made because this new version gives more guarantees as regards safety and quality of services. although the wording of articles 7 and 8 has been improved, i think that more could have been done to ensure greater fairness. most patients, especially those from weaker socioeconomic groups, do not want to be treated abroad because of language barriers and lack of family support. higher-income citizens do not have these obstacles. so i fear that in countries with universal and tendingly free health care systems, the new legislation may act as an incentive to divest from national systems and help create a health market for the rich. i hope, however, that the implementation of the directive will help to reduce health inequalities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive allows all patients in the european union to benefit from health care, given the rights they now have in this area, rights which have already been recognised by the court of justice of the european union. this proposal clarifies and facilitates access to crossborder healthcare and the exercise of the right to reimbursement by the member state of affiliation. it is a step forward in the process of european integration and construction, in the strengthening of solidarity and in the europe of the citizens. we will have shorter waiting lists, better health care, competition and more incentives for scientific research. rare diseases are a priority, and diagnosis and treatment in the member state can be made more appropriate for this purpose. this directive is for all european citizens who need health care. it is therefore absurd for the portuguese minister for health to say that this is an option for the most educated and the most economically powerful. that is what is happening now without this directive. portugal has excellent health care, excellent professionals and cannot be left out of this important project, and it must take advantage of this directive to modernise itself further and compete in order to be able to provide services in this area to all european citizens who need them. i would like to congratulate the great rapporteur, mrs françoise grossetête, who has done an excellent job.
mr president, commissioner, madam minister, this directive lays down rules to facilitate access to safe and quality crossborder healthcare and promotes cooperation between member states in full respect of national competences. it contains core values of universal access to high-quality health care, equity and solidarity. the benefits for patients, especially those suffering from rare and complex diseases, are clear, as they will be able to access centres of excellence in the area of their disease. this directive is another example of europe at the service of the citizen. we all congratulate you, especially the commission, the council and our colleague, mrs françoise grossetête, on the excellent work you have done and on helping to make this directive a reality. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. after a long process, we have today adopted the text of the directive on the exercise of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare. it is a success for parliament, but above all a victory for consumers. the new legislative framework will allow citizens of any member state to receive healthcare in another member state under the same conditions as in their own state. this mobility of patients will make it possible to bypass national waiting lists in completely legitimate conditions and to take advantage of the availability of medical services in other european countries. it also opens up the possibility of specialisation (especially in rare diseases), by moving from providing healthcare in the vicinity to the place where you specialise in your treatment. we are not here to promote medical tourism, but to ensure full mobility of citizens within the eu on equal terms, so that from now on everyone can choose to seek treatment where it is faster, more effective and of higher quality, with reimbursement of the costs by the home country, in the exact terms in which they would have been if health care had been provided there.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by giving an example which seems to me to illustrate the urgency of this initiative. we started work in parliament six months ago, exactly six months ago, between the start of the reporting period and the voting period. during those six months, more than 700 000 people in europe developed alzheimer's or some other form of dementia. this number alone shows how relevant and urgent it is to intervene in this area. that is why the commission's communication is timely. people suffering from alzheimer's and other dementias in europe must all be treated equally. that's over 7 million people with alzheimer's, that's almost 10 million people suffering from dementia in total. if we were talking about numbers, we would be talking about the size of an average country. we can't discriminate against a disease any more than we can discriminate against a country. we have to treat them all equally. and that is why it is necessary and urgent to intervene in various areas. in the field of research, we know that this disease doubles every 20 years in terms of numbers. we know that if the age group is over 65, the number is doubling every four years, and that's why we have to invest in the causes and find the causes because we have no other way to intervene on a problem if we don't know it well. and that's why we need more research, more cooperation, and more epidemiological data. we also need to know better how to intervene in prevention and in controlling risk factors. we need early diagnosis, we need specialized care, we need to train caregivers. we need to support families, not stigmatize the sick, give them rights, give them dignity. we need all countries to have national action plans and then we have cooperation at european level. we need to tackle inequalities between member states and within member states. we can't have a first-class and a second-class patient. they must all be equal, regardless of sex, age, place of residence or any other criteria. that is why, mr president, it is very, very important that we have the widest possible coverage of health services. and we can't avoid talking about these emergencies just because we're in a crisis and we're always talking about the cost of the disease. the social and economic costs of not addressing this problem are much higher, much higher, than if we tackle it. and that's why we have to tackle this problem and invest, invest in people, invest, as i said, in prevention and support for the families and caregivers that are so often overlooked. we know that for every person who has alzheimer's, it takes three people to take care of them. a person with alzheimer's can't go an hour without a chaperone. this has to serve as a lesson to us. we cannot go on without coordination, without cooperation and without cooperation which is solidary between the member states in responding to this problem. and that is why i would like to say the following: speaking of cooperation, we all know and we all know that none of this work can be done in isolation and also here in parliament the work has been done in cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs from all the parliamentary groups, with the support of the three women who helped me in the environment committee, in my parliamentary group, in my delegation. and that's why i want to thank all these women very much, and maybe it's not a coincidence that it was only women who worked on this report, it's because women are the most affected, they're the ones who handle the alzheimer's reports and they're also the ones who treat the alzheimer's patients, including men. and so i want attention to be paid also to the forms of discrimination which are hidden in the form of no treatment or response to these matters. i would like to conclude by saying that i would like to ask the commissioner directly what proposals in this report the commission is prepared to accept and when it will be prepared to accept and follow up on such an urgent matter as we are experiencing today.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i again thank parliament and the members who have taken the floor for their engagement with the important cause of alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia. the commission welcomes parliament’s report and its recommendations. let me take this opportunity to stress that the commission is fully committed to doing its share to address alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia. these conditions are unfortunately part of the ageing process for many european citizens. i believe it is our collective responsibility to work together to minimise their burden and to invest in innovation to prevent, diagnose, treat and manage these conditions. i look forward to supporting member states in their efforts to work closely with parliament in addressing alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia. on the ‘effecto’ klein petition, i must state first of all – referring to mrs manzoni’s statement that the commission’s job is to stand by the citizens – that i can assure you my job is to stand by the patient. it is very important for me, as commissioner responsible for health, not to compromise on patient safety, not to take any shortcuts and short-circuit the processes and procedures that we have in place to ensure that any device to be used in any medical way is properly tested and its safety assured. the issue here is not how to deliver a medicine with a piece of plastic, as has been said. the issue is that we need clinical evidence that the product is safe and to do this the petitioner, in this case mr klein, was requested to conduct clinical studies on 24 patients. that is the extent of the clinical tests that were requested. why is there a resistance to providing these clinical tests? what is causing this resistance? this is something that i am asking myself. we need to know, for example, is this product universal in application, is it to be used with one specific medicine, is it to be used with different types of medicines? if it is, do these medicines require different dosages? is there an adjustment system in the device to adjust the dosage? as a layman, if i had to use a device like this, these are the questions that i would ask myself. this is the kind of thing the authorities have been asking themselves. they have been asking for proof that this device would be safe in the hands of patients at large. there is, as i said, a proper safety assurance procedure, and i will be not short-circuiting that. it has been said that i promised to look into the case. i promised to look into the case, and i did look into the case. i have had a lot of details about the case. naturally, these are details that i had to learn from others who have been here in the commission since 1987. when mr klein asked for a meeting with me or my cabinet, i immediately agreed. my ‘chef de cabinet’ informed him that we were prepared to have a meeting to explain it. he sent an e-mail back setting a lot of conditions, amongst which he stated that as a basis for this meeting, the eu commission should completely take over the expenses. this included the flights and overnight stays in brussels for him and his staff, and i could not accommodate this.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for all the words you have left here in relation to the report that parliament is presenting on alzheimer's and other dementias. we all know that the situation we are in is substantially dramatic and that it is still very much under-diagnosed and that has been mentioned here. and i just want to address an issue that has been transversal to all of the interventions, but probably not so underlined, which is the issue of patients' dignity, their rights, and not just of patients, but also of their families and those who care for them, whether they're formal or informal caregivers and the professionals who are associated with these kinds of diseases. i am glad, frankly glad, that the commissioner is saying that he shares the same concerns as the european parliament. and that the european commission views very positively all the recommendations in the report that parliament is presenting and that it will do everything in its power to put them into practice. we know that each day that passes is later than the previous one in this matter given the urgency of what we have on hand. and so we also know that parliament will be taking a decision on this matter tomorrow. we shall await the outcome of the vote, but we know, commissioner, that the european citizens expect much more from us than solidarity and moral comfort. they expect us to take concrete and appropriate action and i hope, commissioner, that you will then put it into practice and that the commission, which has the initiative which unfortunately this parliament does not have, will put into practice all this priority which it says it gives to this area and will transform it into a legislative initiative so that citizens and their families are respected in their rights and are treated with equality and the dignity they deserve.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the earthquake has plunged haiti into one of the most serious humanitarian crises ever: thousands of dead and wounded, millions of displaced persons and enormous losses. the international community has promised much, but has given little, and the slow pace of the reconstruction process is incomprehensible, despite the goodwill of the european union and the work of the ngos. the situation has been aggravated by the cholera outbreak and political instability following the elections, which have generated enormous violence, with women and children being the main victims. the european union must continue to help in reconstruction and to improve the humanitarian situation of vulnerable groups of the population, but also contribute to strengthening long-term disaster prevention capacities. and in this regard, i would like to welcome the recent proposals put forward by the commission to create a european response capacity, including a voluntary pooling of member states' emergency structures, previously authorised, and the development of contingency plans, as well as the creation of a european emergency response centre through the merger of the humanitarian aid and civil protection crisis centres, responsible for monitoring dangerous situations, issuing early warnings and coordinating the eu response to disasters.
madam president, we reiterate our solidarity with the people of haiti, victims of the earthquake a year ago and, more recently, of cholera. more aid is urgently needed, more support for the people affected by the tragedy of a year ago and by the recent diseases. it is unacceptable that some aid has not yet arrived. we must monitor what is happening with the aid already approved, particularly from the european union, and pay close attention to the exemplary solidarity actions of some countries in the region. i would like to highlight the case of cuba, whose government has sent doctors and specialists who have treated more than 50 000 people for cholera, but i would also like to highlight the financial support from alba and other support in the areas of energy, agriculture and food. it is good that the european union also takes this into account and acts more actively. it is urgent to take all the necessary measures to speed up the rapid reconstruction of haiti and improve the living conditions of its people, but we insist on respecting the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity which the courage and nobility of the haitian people deserve.
mr president, in politics we have reasonable measures, we have wrong measures and we have indecent measures. it is reasonable for europe to issue european public debt, even though mrs merkel does not want to. it is reasonable that europe could mutualise part of our sovereign debts, although mrs merkel does not want to. but it is already inappropriate to report that the european fund and the imf could mutualise part of the sovereign debts acquired from the private sector at 6 and 7 points, in the portuguese case, after that same private sector bank had been financed by the european central bank at 1%. the question i ask you, mr van rompuy, is: how long will this europe want to be the miracle machine of finance capital? how long will we continue to turn private debt into public debt? how long will we make the taxpayers and the european workers and pensioners pay the debts that have been created by the private banks that are attacking us? that is the real issue at stake here today.
mr president, we have come to the end of the european year against poverty. has there been any review of your performance in the council? no, i'm not going. if they had, they would have to conclude that poverty has never increased so much, that it has exceeded 100 million poor people in this rich europe, that the decisions they have taken will continue to increase unemployment, inequality and social exclusion. but the profits of economic and financial groups and the speculative gains on sovereign debts proliferate, supported by the guidelines of the european central bank and the policies of the council and the commission. is this what the eurozone is for? the pressure and blackmail on countries with weaker economies continues and, in turn, governments confronted with workers' protests and struggles are returning to repression and violence against trade unionists and workers, as yesterday in portugal. here we have our protest, our indignation and our firm conviction: we want another europe, one of social progress, which respects those who work and fight for their rights. believe me, we will stand with the workers in the struggle for a break with your politics.
in writing. the nature and objectives of the process of european capitalist integration are becoming increasingly clear as the effects of the crisis of capitalism in the eu deepen, the economic and social situation in several member states deteriorates and divergences become more pronounced. the last european council made this very clear once again. not a word about the social situation in the eu, about unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which have increased throughout 2010 - the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. not a word about the causes of all this. not a word about taxing financial transactions or ending tax havens. the treaty which they said was for a generation is now being proposed to be amended by a simplified procedure because the eu's masters demand it, to create a mechanism which they assume is fully consistent with the policies of the imf. in future, they want to tighten the straitjacket even more on countries such as portugal, which are subject to debasing pressures, blackmail and threats from financial capital, with the active complicity of the eu. all this is happening at the same time as the anti-social and anti-democratic measures associated with the so-called economic governance and the structural reforms are being intensified.
madam president, i would first of all like to say that this parliament, on a day when we are discussing the hungarian presidency, without prejudice to the fact that it can deal with all the subjects it wishes, should concentrate on the problems of the european union, which it is not doing here. and in order to concentrate on the problems of the european union, you should read it carefully and discuss here whether or not you agree with the priorities of the hungarian presidency, rather than discussing points or aspects which are aspects of hungary's internal life and which, at best, can be regulated in a healthy and normal relationship between the european commission and the hungarian government and parliament. i would therefore like to say that, apart from the priority which the hungarian presidency will naturally give to the economic and financial issues on the agenda, i am very pleased to see that the hungarian agenda for this semester is very clear and very ambitious in that it focuses and prioritises on three issues which will be essential for the future of europe: food, which is entering a serious global crisis; energy, which is essential for our security and for our economic sustainability; and water, which has not been much talked about but which will be the next challenge for europeans after food. i wish you all the best in your endeavors.
in writing. in this debate, unfortunately, president orbán started off in the worst possible way, opening his speech with an anti-communist speech, seeking to evade the serious responsibilities he has in the worsening economic situation, the exponential increase in unemployment and poverty that is currently being experienced in hungary, fleeing from the recognition of the violations of democracy, freedom of expression, trade union rights and other labour and social rights, the violations of freedom of the press, fundamental human rights. we are very concerned about the developments in the european union. the hungarian presidency has not given any credible answers to these problems which exist in other countries of the european union. on the contrary, i did. the president reaffirmed authoritarian positions, insisted on the liberalisation of financial markets, on the structural reforms necessary to achieve fully the objectives of capitalism that the european union serves.
hungary takes over the eu presidency at a time when the economic and financial crisis is still ongoing. the last country in the tripartite presidency, shared by spain and belgium, has as its main agenda the economic recovery, the integration of the roma people, an energy strategy, the enlargement process and the involvement of citizens in the european project. the programme considers that the institutionalisation of the financial stabilisation mechanism and the european semester is essential for economic recovery. i consider it extremely important to strengthen cooperation and coordination at economic level as a means of promoting european competitiveness and innovation and thus preventing and/or anticipating future crises. in the area of transport, the new strategy 2011-2020 will be adopted, as will the amendments to the transport network directive which are essential for the completion of the internal market and for social, economic and territorial cohesion. the road, navigation on eu rivers and the implementation of the galileo system are other topics that will be discussed. regional policy is once again seen as the horizontal pillar of the whole hungarian programme strategy, capable of providing integrated responses to the economic crisis and regional disparities. the allocation of the post-2014 multiannual financial framework appears to be the key debate of the hungarian presidency.
in writing. − the directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare represents an essential step for patient mobility within the european union. the aim is to clarify and facilitate access to safe and quality cross-border healthcare and the exercise of the right to reimbursement by the member state of affiliation, and to promote cooperation between member states. the advantages for patients are clear, especially for those suffering from rare and complex diseases who will thus be able to make diagnosis and treatment in the member state more appropriate for that purpose. on the other hand, this mobility will make it possible to legitimately bypass national waiting lists by taking advantage of the availability of medical services in other countries of the european union. this directive will enable all patients to benefit from a number of rights already recognised by the court of justice of the european union. it is undoubtedly a step forward in the process of european integration and construction, in the strengthening of solidarity and in the europe of the citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this directive lays down rules to facilitate access to safe and high-quality crossborder healthcare and promotes cooperation on healthcare between member states, in full respect of national competences. it contains the common core values of universality, access to high quality health care, equity and solidarity. the benefits for patients, especially those suffering from rare or chronic diseases, are clear, as they will be able to benefit from and have access to centres of excellence in the area of their disease. this directive is another example of europe at the service of its citizens, since it allows the choice of the institution which will provide the appropriate health care, regardless of the european country in which it is located.
in writing. − member states are responsible for providing safe, high-quality, effective and necessary healthcare to their citizens. this directive should therefore not affect the freedom of the member state to decide on the most appropriate type of health care. we live in an area of freedom, security and justice where european citizens enjoy freedom of movement, which makes it urgent to establish clear rules on the provision of cross-border healthcare, in particular the issue of reimbursement of costs relating to healthcare provided in another member state. following the case law of the court of justice, this directive allows european citizens to be more confident that they will be able to receive the medical care they need in another member state and be reimbursed up to the amount provided for by their national system. it is important to create a system of prior authorisation for hospital care that is simplified and does not hinder patients from obtaining safe and quality medical care. this directive is an essential first step towards ensuring patient mobility within the eu, and uniform minimum rules are preferable to the case-by-case recourse to judicial decisions.
in writing. − this proposal clarifies and facilitates access to crossborder healthcare and the exercise of the right to reimbursement by the member state of affiliation, allowing all eu patients to benefit from healthcare in another member state, rights which were already recognised by the court of justice of the european union. it is a step forward in the process of european integration and construction and in the strengthening of solidarity, with a reduction in waiting lists, a higher quality of health care and the encouragement of scientific research. rare diseases are a priority and diagnosis and treatment can be carried out in the member state most appropriate for this purpose. this directive is for all european citizens who need health care. that is why it is absurd for the portuguese minister of health to say that this option is for the most enlightened people and those with the greatest economic power. that is what is happening now, without this directive. portugal has excellent health care and cannot be left out of this important project, and should take advantage of this directive to modernise itself further and compete to be able to provide services in this area to all european citizens who need them.
in writing. - we voted against the directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare, although it contains some changes compared to the original text. this final text is the result of a compromise reached by a majority in the council, which provides for 30 months for its transposition by the member states. our vote against is the result of applying the principle of free movement to health services, without taking into account their specific features, including the need for a national public health service that responds first and foremost, in each country, to the needs of its citizens. it is recalled that this proposal of the european commission came after the refusal by the european parliament to include health services in the directive on the liberalisation of services in 2007, in the face of the important struggle of workers and populations, defeating this part of the infamous bolkestein proposal for a directive. however, the final decision of the european parliament, which we have always fought against, includes some back-up measures which allow member states who so wish to use some of the mechanisms for protecting their public services. although it may increase the difficulties of access to health services, especially for citizens who cannot afford to use private health services or have the money to pay for trips abroad, the practical consequences of its application will still depend on the decision of the assembly of the republic and the portuguese government.
in writing. - the question of access to healthcare, reimbursement or responsibility for clinical follow-up of crossborder healthcare is currently unclear to the vast majority of citizens. the aim of this directive is to ensure that all patients, not just those who are best informed, benefit from a number of rights in health care, which have now been recognised by the court of justice of the european union. however, this directive does not remove responsibilities from the member states as regards the health care of their citizens. it only concerns patients and their mobility within the eu, not the free movement of service providers.
in writing. − each member state is responsible for providing healthcare to its citizens. this directive lays down rules to facilitate access to safe and high-quality cross-border healthcare and promotes cooperation on healthcare between member states, in full respect of national competences. the evolution of highly specialised healthcare is asymmetrical, with centres of excellence developing in certain countries for rare or chronic diseases which, in that particular place, have an unusual incidence and require specialisation. this is certainly one of the conditions for promoting free movement in this chapter. we are faced with a directive which is an example of europe at the service of its citizens, promoting solidarity between peoples and creating advantages for patients, especially those suffering from rare or chronic diseases, who will be able to benefit from and have access to centres of excellence in the field of their disease. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this directive aims, in line with the case law of the court of justice of the european union, to clarify and strengthen the rights of users in terms of access to safe and high-quality crossborder healthcare, by promoting patient mobility within the eu and enhancing cooperation and solidarity between member states in this field. it therefore represents an important step forward in the construction of europe, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the objective of building an internal market based on free movement between member states requires measures to achieve it. the free movement of persons and services requires particular attention in the form of health care that nationals of one member state may receive in another eu state. the court of justice has recognised rights for patients, in particular with regard to access to healthcare, its high quality and safety and reimbursement. the need for greater legal certainty in this area implies a commitment by the states to cooperate with each other, in particular by recognising medical prescriptions issued in other states, and to guarantee a quality service in their own territory. i would stress that the commission will be obliged to take measures to make information easier to understand, with regard to prescription and instructions for use of medicinal products, the indication of the active substance and dosage, which will be of clear benefit to patients. the specific nature of the subject makes a separate directive from the services directive necessary. i think it is important to affirm the rights of patients in terms of crossborder healthcare, and i therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs grossetête.
in writing. - i welcome the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) for what they represent in terms of combating the trade in illegal timber in the eu. i would stress its importance in combating deforestation and forest degradation, and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide. those agreements promote economic growth, human development and sustainable food sources at the same time. i call on the commission to ensure a coherent eu policy with a view to making an effective contribution to the international commitments of all parties involved in the vpas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on flegt voluntary partnership agreements (vpas), as the negotiation of these vpas should allow the definition of good practices for future negotiations with timber-producing countries with a view to eradicating illegal logging and the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources at global level.
in writing. - illegal logging is a real plunder of the natural resources of producing countries, usually developing countries, and a clear attack on biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future. agreements such as those concluded with the congo and cameroon, if they prove effective in combating this scourge, could provide a good basis for future agreements of the same kind. i welcome the european concern to protect the natural resources of other countries, but i cannot help stressing that, despite the legal framework resulting from the agreements, any success in the fight against illegal timber trafficking depends overwhelmingly on the governments and institutions of the producing states. without their effective involvement and commitment, any instruments that are agreed will be nothing more than dead letters. this model is therefore also a call for accountability from eu counterparts so that they understand the need to safeguard the interests of their future generations and can resist the appeal of immediate profit for the benefit of all.
in writing. − the european union has been fighting against illegal logging, seeking to conserve and promote the sustainable use of forest resources globally. i therefore welcome the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with cameroon and the republic of congo to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects. these agreements are key to eradicating illegal logging, halting deforestation, forest degradation and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide. i would stress in this connection the request to the commission to draw up and regularly submit to parliament a report on the progress made in implementing the various provisions of the current and future agreements.
in writing. the resolution rightly points out that large-scale industrial exploitation of tropical forests is unsustainable, leading to the degradation and destruction of ecosystems of great importance, both from the functional point of view and from the point of view of the natural values they house. it also points out the limitations and even contradictions of the voluntary flegt partnership agreements, which we believe is right and timely. but it falls short of what would be needed in addressing the root causes of the problem of illegal or unsustainable logging. in particular, it would be important to point out that this problem is inseparable from the enormous weakness of the economies of these countries and the significant levels of poverty among their populations, this activity being sometimes the only source of income for many families. this would necessarily lead to the conclusion - contained in the amendment we tabled and which was unfortunately rejected - that it is only possible to put an end to illegal or unsustainable logging if the terrible social and economic situation prevailing in these countries is properly addressed and resolved; if an economic model based on the high dependence on the exploitation and export of a limited number of raw materials to the industrialized countries is reversed, sustaining neo-colonial relations of dependence, subjugation and plunder of resources of the third world countries.
in writing. - logging in african countries is often carried out illegally, which is very bad for the protection of the natural resources of the producing countries and is also a threat to biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future. the agreements concluded with the congo and cameroon could help to reverse this trend if they are effective and clearly end the scourge of illegal logging in these african countries. the eu's defence of foreign natural resources through such agreements is noteworthy. however, for these initiatives to succeed, it is very important that the governments and institutions of the producing states help in this fight.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the voluntary partnership agreements on the enforcement of legislation, governance and trade in the forestry sector in respect of timber products imported into the european union (flegt). i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the negotiation of these ppas will provide guidance on good practice which can serve as a precedent for the negotiations currently under way on other ppas with timber-producing countries. in this context, i welcome the eu's assumption of its share of responsibility in eradicating illegal logging, as well as the related trade and enforcement efforts towards the conservation and sustainable use of forest resources globally. i welcome the fact that the commitments made by the parties involved to improve forest governance are transparent and respect the rights of indigenous peoples, ensuring forest biodiversity, climate and sustainable human development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which, in line with the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) concluded with cameroon and the republic of congo, stresses the need to provide, in the framework of the negotiations for future agreements of this type, for measures to meet the objectives of eradicating illegal logging, conserving and using forest resources sustainably and respecting the rights of local populations.
in writing. − i agree with the aim of providing a legislative framework to identify and ensure the traceability of timber products, to establish governmental and independent verification procedures to certify that all timber products exported by cameroon to european markets have been legally harvested, cut, transported and exported, to establish the basis for legal management and exploitation in the cameroonian timber sector and to strengthen the enforcement of forestry regulation and governance. i also believe that this agreement is of the utmost importance as this country is the main african exporter of timber to europe and has serious problems at various levels of governance, such as environmental degradation and corruption. it is also necessary to ensure compliance with the international commitments made by the eu and cameroon in environmental terms, the adoption of civil society oversight and greater involvement of local and indigenous communities, ensuring that they enjoy their fundamental rights.
in writing. − i welcome the commitments made between the eu and the republic of cameroon to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects. the forest environment is a common heritage of humanity and must be protected, preserved and, if possible, restored with the ultimate aim of maintaining global biodiversity and ecosystem functions, protecting the climate. it is essential that partner governments in africa and third countries develop resource management and land-use planning plans to achieve these objectives. at the same time, they should identify the support that will be needed from foreign partners and international organisations to advance these objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-cameroon voluntary partnership agreement, because it provides for political and legislative reforms that will enable the cameroonian timber sector to promote good governance and transparency with a view to combating fraud and illegal timber trade.
in writing. − the conclusion of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products imported into the european union (flegt) is of the utmost importance given the negative impact that illegal timber trafficking necessarily entails. this agreement should allow the tracing of the origin of the wood and encourage the application of independent verification procedures to prove this. i hope that the linking of cameroon to flegt will effectively reduce the means at the disposal of traffickers and thus establish an effective and transparent system for monitoring the legality of timber.
in writing. − the european union has been fighting against illegal logging, seeking to conserve and promote the sustainable use of forest resources globally. i therefore welcome the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with cameroon to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects. these agreements are key to eradicating illegal logging, halting deforestation, forest degradation and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide. i would stress in this connection the request to the commission to draw up and regularly submit to parliament a report on the progress made in implementing the various provisions of the current and future agreements.
in writing. - the objectives set out in this agreement, aimed at the traceability and certification of wood products originating in the republic of cameroon, while apparently meritorious, do not respond in the way we believe would be necessary to the problem of the destruction of forests and, with it, the threat to the integrity of resources of extreme ecological and conservation value, on which the existence and the way of life of local communities and indigenous peoples depend. the rapporteur himself is aware of the weaknesses of the agreement, as he lists a wide range of concerns not explicitly addressed in it. in particular, the agreement does not exclude the possibility that large-scale industrial exploitation may encourage forest degradation and deforestation, including in intact forest areas of high biodiversity. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to take action to combat climate change. it is recognised that there is no direct involvement of local communities and indigenous peoples in the discussion of the agreement. it is also acknowledged that there is no specific funding and no technical or human support necessary for its implementation. these are some of the reasons why we abstained.
in writing. - logging in african countries is often carried out illegally, which is very bad for the protection of the natural resources of the producing countries and is also a threat to biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future. i hope that the agreement negotiated with cameroon will combat the illegal exploitation of that country's timber resources effectively, thereby contributing to the improvement of the living conditions of the people who live off the income of this economic sector, and also contributing to the improvement of biodiversity and the protection of cameroon's natural resources.
in writing. - i am in favour of the conclusion of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon, which aims to strengthen forest governance, promote cameroonian wood products and improve the country's competitiveness on the international market. these objectives should respect the objectives and commitments of the flegt agreement (strengthening rights of occupation and access to community land, ensuring the effective participation of civil society, with particular attention to indigenous peoples, in political decisions on forest governance matters, improving transparency and reducing corruption). the effective and efficient involvement of the authorities of the republic of cameroon is necessary to ensure that these objectives are not rendered fruitless. i agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the need for the european parliament, in the light of the new powers conferred by the treaty of lisbon, to monitor the different stages of negotiation and implementation of the vpas, requesting the commission, among other documents for the analysis of the implementation of the agreement, to carry out studies on the social, economic and environmental impacts of this agreement.
in writing. − the eu-cameroon voluntary partnership agreement provides for a series of political and legislative reforms that will enable the cameroonian timber sector to establish good governance practices and greater transparency. it is important to ensure that timber and timber products from cameroon entering european markets do so in full compliance with the law and that the reforms implemented ensure respect for the rights of local and indigenous communities and have an effective impact in terms of fighting corruption and strengthening the role of local civil society. i therefore supported the conclusion of this agreement and expressed my hope that the commitments and objectives of flegt would be fully respected in its implementation.
in writing. − i agree with the aim of providing a legislative framework to identify and ensure the traceability of timber products by establishing governmental and independent verification procedures that certify that all timber products exported from the congo to european markets have been legally harvested, logged, transported and exported, in order to lay the foundations for legal management and exploitation in the congolese timber sector and to strengthen the enforcement of forest regulation and governance. this agreement is important as the country exports over eur 250 million a year in wood and wood products, more than half of which is destined for the eu. i also agree with the need to ensure that the congo fulfils its international commitments in terms of human rights and the environment.
in writing. - i welcome the commitments made through the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) between the eu and the republic of congo to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation in this field. it is necessary to ensure that forestry activities are transparent, respect the rights of the people and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects. i would stress the role of independent national civil society organisations and independent external observers in monitoring the proper implementation of the vpas by all parties involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-congo voluntary partnership agreement, because it provides for political and legislative reforms that will enable the congolese timber sector to promote good governance and transparency with a view to combating fraud and illegal timber trade.
in writing. - the illegal trade in timber is a problem that seriously affects producing countries, including the congo, and threatens the ecosystems, livelihoods and economies of developing countries themselves. unfortunately, the european union continues to receive illegal timber, and all measures to make it more difficult for it to enter the community are welcome. in this sense, a partnership agreement to safeguard the origin and legality of timber entering the european union is obviously a positive measure. as with other consumer goods, the consumer should be able to trace the wood to its origin and ensure that it complies with the legal requirements applicable to it.
in writing. − the european union has been fighting against illegal logging, seeking to conserve and promote the sustainable use of forest resources globally. i therefore welcome the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with the republic of congo to improve forest governance and reform existing legislation where necessary to ensure that forestry sector activities are transparent, respect the rights of indigenous peoples and do not contribute to adverse environmental effects. these agreements are key to eradicating illegal logging, halting deforestation, forest degradation and the resulting carbon emissions and loss of biodiversity worldwide. i would stress in this connection the request to the commission to draw up and regularly submit to parliament a report on the progress made in implementing the various provisions of the current and future agreements.
in writing. - this agreement aims to ensure the traceability and certification of wood products originating in the republic of congo, objectives which, while seemingly meritorious, do not respond to the way we understand that would be necessary to the problem of the destruction of forests of high ecological and conservation value, on which local communities and indigenous peoples depend. the concerns expressed by the rapporteur himself are sufficient to show the weaknesses of the agreement, which justified our abstention. in particular, the agreement does not, by itself, ensure the fight against deforestation and the large-scale degradation of intact forests, and may even, in the absence of additional and complementary measures, promote them, since it favours the import of wood products from the congo into the eu area. this could result in clear contradictions with the eu's stated objectives of combating climate change and protecting biodiversity. the report also stresses the lack of specific funding and of the technical and human resources needed to implement the agreement.
in writing. - logging in african countries is often carried out illegally, which is very bad for the protection of the natural resources of the producing countries and is also a threat to biodiversity and the quality of life of the population and its prospects for the future. i hope that the agreement negotiated with the congo will effectively combat illegal logging in that country, thereby contributing to the improvement of the living conditions of the people who live off the income from this economic sector, and also contributing to the improvement of biodiversity and the protection of the congolese natural resources.
in writing. - the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of congo on the enforcement of the law, governance and trade in forestry products imported into the eu (flegt) also received my vote in favour. i welcome the objective of creating a legislative framework to, among other things, identify and ensure the traceability of timber products, to establish governmental and independent verification procedures to certify that all timber products exported from the congo to european markets have been legally harvested, logged, transported and exported, in order to lay the foundations for legal management and exploitation in the congolese timber sector, and to strengthen the enforcement of forestry regulation and governance. the highlight of the congo-eu fta, concluded on 9 may 2009, was the fulfilment of the criteria resulting from the fta definitions, in particular at the level of the negotiation process, which resulted in an innovative agreement aimed at effectively combating the practices of poor governance that underpin the illegal timber trade and corruption, and the establishment of an effective and transparent system for monitoring the legality of the timber and timber products sector.
in writing. − the eu-congo voluntary partnership agreement provides for a series of political and legislative reforms that will enable the congolese timber sector to establish good governance practices and greater transparency. it is important to ensure that timber and timber products from the congo enter european markets lawfully and that the reforms implemented ensure respect for the rights of local and indigenous communities, contribute to improving the living conditions of the population and to preserving the environment, and have an effective impact on the fight against corruption and on the capacity building of local civil society. i therefore supported the conclusion of this agreement and expressed my hope that the commitments and objectives of flegt would be fully respected in its implementation.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts being made to strengthen trade relations between the pacific and the eu with a view to supporting regional integration and promoting the progressive integration of the acp economies into the world economy. the eu has an important role to play in promoting sustainable social and economic development in the acp countries and in contributing to the overall effort to eradicate poverty in these countries. trade relations between this region and the eu should therefore foster and increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while contributing to economic diversification and poverty reduction. the current economic and financial crisis makes trade policy more important than ever for the developing world, and i call for the swift negotiation of a comprehensive economic partnership agreement (epa) with all 14 pacific acp states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the partnership agreement will support regional integration and promote the progressive integration of the acp economies into the world economy, while at the same time promoting the sustainable social and economic development of these countries and also contributing to the eradication of poverty.
in writing. - although only papua new guinea and fiji have signed the interim partnership agreement with the european community, i believe it may be worth supporting because it allows the opening of european markets to local products and, in return, a phased opening of their markets to european products. i hope that trade relations between the pacific states and the european union will increase and strengthen, while respecting local specificities and taking into account the special needs of those who have the least. this trade mechanism should therefore be used in the light of the development needs of the signatory states and as a tool for their promotion. the global agreement to be concluded should not ignore the key issues listed in the resolution: (a) negotiations on intellectual property rights; (b) transparency of public procurement; and (c) the granting of work visas.
in writing. − the partnership agreements between the ec and the pacific states should aim at increasing trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction. although only papua new guinea and the republic of the fiji islands have signed the agreement at present, it is an important step for the future economic development of this region of 14 states and a key factor in the development of international trade.
in writing. − it is clear from this european parliament resolution on the ec-pacific provisional partnership agreement that there is a widespread belief that promoting trade relations between the ec and the pacific states and the eu should foster and increase trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction, and that this interim agreement should fulfil the millennium development goals. this, together with the creation of a genuine regional market, is a crucial basis for the successful implementation of the interim epa and, by analogy, of a possible global epa in the future. regional integration and cooperation are essential for the social and economic development of the pacific states. i voted in favour because i am convinced that this epa can contribute to the economic development of these regions and i share the concerns expressed in the resolution that this development must be accompanied by policies of environmental sustainability and inclusion. the european parliament shall be responsible for monitoring the implementation of this agreement within the framework of the powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the interim partnership agreement between the ec and the pacific states, hoping that this agreement, now limited to two countries papua new guinea and the fiji islands , can pave the way for the conclusion of a broader agreement, which constitutes an instrument for promoting sustainable social and economic development in the pacific region, as well as for poverty reduction and the strengthening of regional integration and cooperation, in line with the millennium development goals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it contributes to the establishment of new trade arrangements compatible with wto rules with the countries of fiji and papua new guinea. provisional economic partnership agreements (epas) are agreements on trade in goods which are intended to prevent a break in acp trade with europe. although the interim agreements may be considered as a first step in the process, legally they are fully independent international agreements which may not necessarily lead to a full epa. i welcome the recommendations on the conclusion of final agreements, on the origin of eu funds to finance these agreements (not to come from the edf), the need for a parliamentary committee to monitor implementation and a global impact review clause within three to five years.
in writing. − despite the limited number of countries that have accepted the interim partnership agreement, it demonstrates europe's commitment to supporting the development of the pacific countries through the use of a mechanism that goes beyond mere assistance procedures and seeks to mobilise local economies, the desirable effect of which will be the creation of businesses and jobs and greater movement of people and goods. despite my agreement in principle to such an instrument, i am not unaware of the doubts about the impact the partnership agreement may have on the industrial sector related to fisheries. i would therefore like the european commission to follow this matter with particular care and i believe it is justified for that institution to submit a report to the european parliament on fisheries in the pacific and the management of fishery resources in the region as requested by the rapporteur.
in the light of the recent developments in the region, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the provisional partnership agreement to the period from 1 january 1997 to 31 december 1999. 1. these countries represent the largest economies in the region and have concluded economic partnership agreements with the eu in the past; 2. notwithstanding the interest in extending this partnership to other states in the region, this has not been possible; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 4. the republic of fiji has undertaken commitments to the eu with regard to human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law; 5.despite criticism from civil society and political elements in the region, this partnership can contribute to the strategic development of these countries.
in writing. - we have long been critical of the conclusion of these epas with the acp countries. these agreements, whatever their designation and whatever rhetorical phrases they use, are aimed primarily at the objective of free trade, with all the profoundly negative consequences that follow from this. recently, and again at the last acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in december 2010, the acp council expressed concern that the european commission did not respect its objections on matters relating to the defence of their economies, even considering that there is a contradiction between the commission's claimed flexibility and the inflexible stance it has taken in the technical negotiations. in this (provisional) epa with fiji and papua new guinea, too, the eu has been heavily criticised by social and political organisations in the pacific region for putting pressure on these two countries to sign the provisional agreement, with the threat of losing preferential access to european markets. there is also criticism that there has been a significant decline in solidarity between the pacific states since the signing of this agreement, and that this has created feelings of division, leading to the disintegration of some regional groups due to the pressures they have felt to conclude the interim agreements.
in writing. − the partnership agreements between the ec and the pacific states should aim at increasing trade, sustainable development and regional integration, while promoting economic diversification and poverty reduction. although only papua new guinea and the republic of the fiji islands have signed the agreement at present, it is an important step for the future economic development of this region of 14 states and a key factor in the development of international trade. this is the first step towards extending the agreement to other countries in the region and thus giving a major boost to their economies and the well-being of their populations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation on the interim eu-pacific partnership agreement for the following reasons. fiji and papua new guinea decided to enter into the agreement mainly in the hope of protecting their sugar and tuna industries. the interim agreement covers rules of origin for fisheries, textiles and agriculture, but provides for derogations which may affect the competitiveness of certain community industries. as regards the canned tuna sector, the derogation granted allows countries such as papua new guinea to act as hubs for the processing of huge quantities of tuna of all origins (philippines, thailand, china, usa, australia, etc.) landed in their ports to be processed in factories set up hastily by operators from the countries concerned for the sole purpose of benefiting from the full exemption from customs duties granted by the eu under this interim agreement. this has hurt the european canning sector, which has complained of unfair competition. i therefore join the rapporteur in calling for a report to be submitted to parliament on the specific aspects of the fisheries sector in the pacific states to assess the real impact that these measures may have on the community market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that promoting trade relations between the pacific states and the eu can contribute to promoting the sustainable social and economic development of the region, as well as to reducing poverty and strengthening regional integration and cooperation, in line with the millennium development goals. i share, however, the concerns expressed by the rapporteur regarding the derogating system of origin rules and its negative impact on the eu fish processing and canning industry, which should be properly assessed by the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on intercountry adoption in the european union. although this is a matter for the member states, i believe that the protection of children's rights should be an objective of the european union. in this context, i believe that it is necessary to consider the possibility of coordinating strategies at european level on the instrument of intercountry adoption and on post-adoption services, taking into account that all international conventions on the protection of the rights of the child recognize the right of abandoned or orphaned children to have a family and to receive protection.
in writing. - adoption of children is a particularly sensitive matter. the dignity of the person and, in the present case, the special care which the best interests of the child require, call for compliance with the international conventions relating to the child, the study of best practices and the exchange of experience between member states. the european union can accompany these efforts and contribute to tackling the scourge of child trafficking, which affects above all the poorest countries and the most vulnerable people.
in writing. − the european union has always fought for the protection of children's rights and for the defence of their best interests. this resolution calls for consideration to be given to the possibility of coordinating at european level strategies relating to the instrument of intercountry adoption, in accordance with international conventions, in order to improve assistance in the fields of information services, intercountry adoption preparation, processing of applications for intercountry adoption and post-adoption services, taking into account that all international conventions on the protection of the rights of the child recognize the right of abandoned or orphaned children to have a family and to receive protection. i voted in favour because i believe that although the matter of adoption is a matter for the member states, a minimum of european convergence is necessary, provided that the best interests of the child are always respected.
in writing. - we all agree with the defence of the welfare of children and the guarantee of their rights, as stated in the european parliament's resolution. but it is not enough to make these general statements. it is also necessary to look at the causes that lead to the exploitation of children in situations of intercountry adoption. the main causes of child abandonment are poverty, inadequate social security systems, lack of adequate social infrastructure networks, lack of adequate public services, and conflict and military interventions.
in writing. − adoption of children is a matter of concern to the eu and should be treated with the utmost care. children are the future of any society and, in this sense, they must be treated with all dignity, taking into account their best interests, which require and recommend compliance with the international conventions concerning them. it is therefore the eu's duty to do everything in its power to tackle the scourge of child trafficking, which affects children in particular in the poorest and most deprived countries.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of this resolution on international adoption in the eu. this is an initiative which meets the objective of the union, as defined in article 3 of the lisbon treaty, namely the protection of the rights of the child. the economic development of eu countries does not prevent serious shortcomings in children's rights. in particular, the problems of childhood poverty, in particular abandoned and institutionalized children, violence against them and trafficking of children for adoption, prostitution, clandestine labour, forced marriage, begging and other illegal purposes, remain a serious problem in the eu. this is the framework which defines the importance of this initiative which asks the commission to consider the possibility of coordinating strategies at european level concerning the instrument of intercountry adoption. a strategy in line with international conventions to improve assistance in the areas of information services, preparation and processing of applications and post-adoption services. to have in mind the protection of the rights of the child and to recognise the right of abandoned or orphaned minors to have a family and to be protected.
in writing. adoption is a particularly sensitive issue which should be given full attention by the member states and the eu. despite considerable progress made under the hague convention on the protection of the rights of the child, childhood poverty, violations of children's rights, violence against children and trafficking in children for adoption, prostitution, illegal labour and other illegal purposes remain a problem in the eu. every effort should therefore be made to protect the child's right to family life, and in this regard it is important to consider the possibility of coordinating strategies at european level on the instrument of intercountry adoption, in accordance with international conventions, in order to improve assistance in the areas of information services, preparation and processing of applications and post-adoption services.
in writing. - the right of a child to grow up in a healthy family environment, conducive to his or her harmonious development, is the key concept behind this resolution. the growing number of children living in orphanages, as well as the violation of their rights, namely human trafficking, adoption and illegal labour and prostitution, which persists in the european union, leads to a position to reverse these developments. at the same time, there is a growing number of illegal international adoptions from third countries which do not comply with the requirements of the hague convention. the institutionalisation of children's rights in the eu, in article 3 tfeu as one of the eu's objectives, and in the charter of fundamental rights, article 24, opens up the opportunity to coordinate member states' policies and strategies, in line with existing international instruments. i believe that the creation of a mechanism at european level to show how the different national systems in this field work is urgent. a transparent and effective mechanism to monitor the adoption of children, pre- and post-adoption, and the involvement of international organisations, not only promotes children's rights but also opens the door to their harmonious development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it recognises that serbia is in a position to become an important player in ensuring security and stability in the balkan region. the future of serbia inevitably depends on the eu. i therefore believe that the country should continue its efforts towards this objective, and the progress already made in the reform process should be commended.
in writing. − looking at a map of the european union, one can quickly see that the western balkans region has a vocation to become part of it. i believe that this accession will eventually be realized. serbia's path has been particularly hard since the breakup of the former yugoslavia following the overthrow of soviet power. its involvement as an aggressor in fratricidal wars and the brutal impact these have had on neighbouring countries and the international community as a whole have had serious consequences for the country and its population. the secession of kosovo, which remains a deeply controversial issue, has heightened tensions in the region and retains a huge destabilising potential. i would like serbia to stick to the european option and i can only congratulate its people and its main leaders on the progress they have made in this respect.
in writing. - serbia's future lies in the eu. i therefore welcome the submission by serbia on 22 december 2009 of its application for membership of the european union and the decision by the council of ministers on 25 october to request the commission to examine the application. i commend serbia for the progress it has made in the reform process. i stress that the development of regional cooperation remains a key priority for the eu and that it should be a catalyst for reconciliation, good neighbourliness and the strengthening of people-to-people contacts in the western balkans. serbia is therefore urged to adopt a constructive approach towards more inclusive regional cooperation. i would remind you that full cooperation with the icty is a fundamental condition for serbia to make progress towards eu membership. it is noted that serbia continues to respond adequately to requests for assistance from the icty. the government of serbia is urged to continue to work closely with the icty, including the prompt transmission of all requested documents and the timely completion of the cases transferred from the icty.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution mainly because of the demands it makes on serbia and the unacceptable position of the european union on kosovo. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. it is an unacceptable pressure on serbia, made all the more complicated by the fact that no similar measures have been taken in relation to kosovo, despite public denunciations of organ trafficking by the current kosovo leadership. it is also unacceptable that the european parliament should press serbia to enter into dialogue with kosovo without referring again to new negotiations either on the status or on secession. the process of european integration in serbia is a reflection of what we have been calling for for a long time. it is now clear that the war perpetrated by nato and the major eu powers, with germany at the head, was aimed above all at dismantling yugoslavia, dividing its territory into countries that would serve the economic interests of the major economic groups in the eu.
in writing. - it is unanimous that the countries belonging to the western balkans region have a vocation to become eu members. in the near future, that will be a reality. in this group is serbia, which has had a difficult journey since the end of the former yugoslavia, following the capitulation of the soviet empire. on the other hand, the fratricidal wars in which it has been involved and the brutal impact of these on neighbouring countries and the entire international community have brought unpleasant consequences for it and its citizens. the so-called kosovo war, which remains unresolved and is very controversial throughout the international community, has also helped to make peace in this region not yet a reality. it is therefore desirable that serbia should continue to move closer to the european option. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate its leaders and its citizens on the efforts and progress they have made.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in serbia deserves my vote in favour for the reasons i have set out. the thessaloniki european council in june 2003 promised all the western balkan countries membership of the european union once they fulfilled the eu accession criteria. the pace of integration of the western balkan countries into the eu is individual and depends on the merits of each country in this respect, namely the determination to meet all requirements, fulfil all obligations, carry out all reforms and take the necessary steps inherent in eu membership. the role of serbia as a guarantor of security and stability in the region is fundamental. this resolution therefore reaffirms that serbia's future lies in the eu and encourages the country to continue its efforts towards this objective; commending serbia for the progress achieved in the reform process and welcoming the decision taken by the council on 14 june 2010 to initiate the process of ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement, which has since been ratified by 10 member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms that serbia's future lies in the eu, highlights the progress made in the reforms implemented and urges serbia to continue its efforts to achieve compliance with the requirements and criteria for eu membership.
in writing. - having regard to the provisional decision of the council and the commission (15191/2007) and the association and stabilisation agreement between the european community and serbia, i approve the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - the central role of serbia in the western balkans is clear: the region can hardly be stabilized without a stable serbia. it is not too much to praise the reforms that have been carried out in the meantime in that country, aimed at strengthening democracy, transparency and the rule of law. in addition to this effort, there is another, that of re-establishing relations and partnerships with its neighbours, former enemies, which, because it is demanding in human terms, i cannot but welcome. the agreements that serbia has been establishing with the eu and the recent mutual opening of borders indicate that the policy of small steps that create solidarity has not been neglected. i hope that the eu will examine serbia's application for membership with the appropriate rigor, but that it will do so bearing in mind the important signal that its accession, along with that of croatia which is at an earlier stage, would mean for the serbian people, for the whole region and for the eu itself.
in writing. - serbia's future lies in the eu. i therefore welcome the submission by serbia on 22 december 2009 of its application for membership of the european union and the decision by the council of ministers on 25 october to request the commission to examine the application. i commend serbia for the progress it has made in the reform process. i stress that the development of regional cooperation remains a key priority for the eu and that it should be a catalyst for reconciliation, good neighbourliness and the strengthening of people-to-people contacts in the western balkans. serbia is therefore urged to adopt a constructive approach towards more inclusive regional cooperation. i agree with this proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. in view of our views on enlargement, we abstained in this report. however, we disagree with some aspects of it, in particular the conditions imposed by the european union, in particular the requirement of full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, which remains an essential precondition for a future accession of serbia to the eu, issues that have not been put to other countries in similar situations. we would point out that this agreement still needs to be ratified by the 27 eu member states in order to enter into force. the stabilisation and association agreement, signed in 2008, provides for the establishment of a free trade area between the eu and serbia and offers the prospect of serbia's accession to the union. serbia's eu membership application was submitted in december 2009. in october last year the council asked the commission to prepare an opinion on the country's application for membership, which is due to be submitted this autumn.
in writing. - it is unanimous that the countries belonging to the western balkans region have a vocation to become eu members. in the near future, that will be a reality. in this group is serbia, which has had a difficult journey since the end of the former yugoslavia, following the capitulation of the soviet empire. on the other hand, the fratricidal wars in which it has been involved and the brutal impact of these on neighbouring countries and the entire international community have brought unpleasant consequences for it and its citizens. the so-called kosovo war, which remains unresolved and is very controversial throughout the international community, has also helped to make peace in this region not yet a reality. it is therefore desirable that serbia should continue to move closer to the european option. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate its leaders and its citizens on the efforts and progress they have made. i would like to stress the role that serbia has played in the stabilisation of the western balkans region as a whole and in particular in the stability and cohesion of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. - nothing prevents the european parliament from giving its consent to the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. within the framework of the european parliament's existing powers in the field of international agreements, the council has requested approval of the agreement and the committee on foreign affairs has made a recommendation for the conclusion of the agreement. i voted in favour because i consider that the contribution of this agreement to a sound and effective neighbourhood policy in which serbia plays a role of geopolitical balance in the balkans is of the utmost importance.
in writing. − the reforms undertaken by serbia have enabled it to make significant progress towards future eu integration. in this respect, i consider it appropriate to support the conclusion of this association and stabilisation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which aims to further a set of measures, in particular with regard to promoting early diagnosis and quality of life, improving epidemiological knowledge of the disease and the coordination of existing research, promoting the sharing of good practice between member states and respect for people living with dementia, because in the current situation, where every year some 14 million european citizens develop some form of dementia, alzheimer's disease accounts for half of these cases. the different existing policies need to be articulated in order to address this situation in a coordinated, objective and more effective way, supporting carers and families in areas such as strengthening different health systems and in training and counselling. i think it is important that the european dementia strategy places more emphasis on the social dimension of people living with dementia, with an increasing emphasis on research and early prevention and diagnosis.
in writing. − dementia is a disease characterised by a slow and progressive loss of memory, concentration and the ability to learn, usually in people over 65 years of age. dementias are a group of neurodegenerative diseases that should not be considered as a normal part of the aging process. estimates suggest that more than 8 million europeans aged 30 to 99 suffer from neurodegenerative diseases (12.5 per 1 000 inhabitants), with women more affected than men. scientific media admit that this number may double in the next 20 years. the most common type of dementia in europe is alzheimer's disease (representing 50-70% of cases). i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the quality of life and well-being of patients, encourage research and prevention and improve coordination between member states in order to provide a more effective and supportive response to the prevention and treatment of people living with dementia, in particular alzheimer's disease, and those around them. equally important is the proposal for the creation of a european year of mental health.
in writing. - an estimated 7.3 million europeans suffer from various types of dementia (with alzheimer's being the most common). it's a health problem on a large scale, because i remember that dementia affects not only the people who suffer from it, but also the people who care for them. a european strategy in this area would allow for a more integrated approach and a more effective response to the treatment and awareness of mental illness by raising awareness among the european public of the brain pathologies associated with ageing. i think it is important to improve coordination between the member states by developing national strategies and plans specifically for alzheimer's disease, to ensure greater support and services for patients and their families and to promote research, treatment and prevention of this type of disease. i congratulate my colleague marisa matias on her report and support the recommendations to the commission and the council as well as to the member states.
in writing. - an estimated 9.9 million people in europe suffer from dementia the vast majority, over 7 million, are diagnosed with alzheimer's. scientific studies suggest that this number may double every 20 years. this requires a new approach by the european union and the member states in the prevention and treatment of this disease. the report voted on today, the content of which i subscribe to, proposes better coordination between the medical and social services of the member states and the people living around alzheimer's patients, such as health professionals, family members or ipss. i would also like to stress the importance the rapporteur attaches to early diagnosis, the existence of interlinked reference centres, the multidisciplinary approach to the disease, the importance of vocational training for this type of disease, and the network of support for families. the proposed support for awareness campaigns on degenerative diseases aimed at the general public is also important. i also agree with the idea expressed in the report that a european strategy on these diseases should safeguard the existence of services that allow universal and wide geographical access to the system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european initiative on alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, because it contains measures to ensure the dignity of people with dementia, reduce inequalities and prevent social exclusion, and promote early diagnosis and research on the prevention of these diseases.
in writing. - in europe there are 9.9 million people suffering from some form of dementia, making our continent the second most prevalent dementia-related disease. in portugal alone, the number of dementia patients is estimated at 153 000, of which more than 90 000 have alzheimer's disease, and these numbers are expected to double by 2020. with an aging population, the response of societies and governments to these sorts of pathologies, which are very much associated with age, is a stark challenge at the turn of the millennium. that is why i cannot but express my strong support for an initiative which proposes to declare dementia an eu health priority and to urge member states to develop national strategies and plans specifically for alzheimer's disease. this has also defended the cds in portugal, being avant-garde and being perfectly aligned with the eu's health policies and priorities, by demanding from the government a national plan for dementias that guarantees dignified, humanized and qualified support and follow-up to people with alzheimer's disease or other dementias.
in writing. − 1.4 million european citizens develop dementia each year, which means that a new case is diagnosed every 24 seconds. in portugal the number of dementia patients is estimated at 153 000, of whom 90 000 have alzheimer's disease. with the eu's ageing population, experts predict a doubling of these figures by 2040. in view of this phenomenon of an ageing population and the decreasing ratio between the active population and the retired population, dementia is expected to pose one of the main challenges to the sustainability of national health and social security systems. it is therefore crucial that governments develop national strategies and plans specific to alzheimer's disease in order to address the social and health consequences of dementia, not only by ensuring the provision of services but also by supporting people with dementia and their families. i welcome the proposal to establish a european year of mental health to raise public awareness of the brain disorders associated with ageing and of ways of identifying the early symptoms of these disorders through information campaigns on their prevention and treatment.
in writing. − alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia are diseases that have been giving rise to justified attention and concern, affecting some 9.9 million people in europe today, according to the 2010 report of the alzheimer's disease international organisation, and this number is expected to increase considerably by 2020. the lack of carers for people with alzheimer's disease is a matter of great concern and will tend to worsen in the future if no action is taken. these measures should include training of sufficient health and social care professionals and ensuring the provision of appropriate care through public services, respecting the wishes of patients to remain in family environments wherever possible, promoting the fundamental principles of dignity and social inclusion, as well as patient autonomy and self-determination. in a disease where the cost of medication is very high and cannot be borne by most patients, greater sharing of these medicines is desirable. it is essential that research in this area, particularly in the fields of prevention, diagnosis and therapeutics, be encouraged and developed, with the fundamental principle that these responsibilities should be assumed by the public sector, without restrictions on benefit or access for any patient.
in writing. - the cds/pp, my party in portugal, has always been a staunch supporter of the creation of a national plan for dementia, so that people suffering from this type of disease can be accompanied in a qualified, dignified and humane way. i can therefore only support this eu initiative which aims to make the fight against dementia one of the eu's priorities. the high number of eu citizens affected by alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia is such that this is a must. it is very important that this type of disease is tackled at an early stage so that the success of the fight against it is greater and the quality of life of those affected is as good as possible.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. i agree with some of the concerns in my colleague marisa matias' report and support the call to the council to make dementia an eu health priority. it is important to act globally. in fact, the level of transnational coordination is relatively low in the eu, which leads to fragmentation and limited sharing of knowledge and best practice between member states, and alzheimer's research does not keep pace with research on other serious diseases in europe. these facts, which are well reported in the report, require not only the development of specific national strategies and plans for alzheimer's disease, which are essential, but also the creation, on the basis of this initiative, of an instrument at european level to promote effective coordination of european research in this field. i believe that this is the way to ensure that health care is provided in accordance with best practice, simultaneously in all european countries, avoiding unequal responses and the prevalence of unequal conditions of access and treatment of the disease.
in writing. − the number of people suffering from dementia in europe is estimated at 9.9 million, with alzheimer's disease accounting for the vast majority of cases. neurodegenerative diseases are a major cause of disability and dependence in older people, and it is estimated that by 2020 the number of people with dementia will have doubled. in this context, the importance of this report should be underlined, which draws attention to the need for member states and the eu to significantly strengthen cooperation and coordination of efforts in clinical, innovative and multidisciplinary research into the causes, prevention and treatment of alzheimer's disease, as well as the sharing of information and the level of financial investment in this field. the emphasis was also placed on the importance of early diagnosis, training of professionals, support for families and public awareness campaigns, all in order to ensure that these patients receive healthcare in accordance with best practice.
in writing. - this case, which has been going on for more than ten years, has caused considerable financial losses to the company concerned, which has not yet received a definitive reply from the commission to its disagreement with the german authorities. it is essential that all medical devices placed on the market in the union comply with community standards and safety rules for the defence and protection of their consumers. however, it is for the commission to take the necessary steps to conclude this procedure taking into account the need for timely resolution of conflicts.
in writing. - the case concerned an asthma inhaler on the market since 1996, in respect of which the german authorities had expressed concerns and informed the commission in order to initiate and complete a safeguard procedure. however, the commission not only did not consult the manufacturer, it did not issue any opinion, so a decision on the matter is still pending and the injured party has no legal recourse. in 2003, the manufacturer marketed the device under a new name and in 2005 the upper bavarian government demanded its withdrawal from the market, citing the german medical devices act, without informing the commission. the manufacturer informed the commission of the second marketing ban with a view to initiating an infringement procedure against germany, but the commission stated that there was insufficient evidence that the inhaler met the main requirements of the directive and concluded that a new safety examination of the product was not necessary. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is imperative that the commission respond urgently to the legitimate concerns of the injured party so that he can assert his rights.
in writing. - such conflicts are damaging to all those involved, to the company concerned by the financial costs involved and to the european institutions by the bad image they convey in the face of the delay in the conclusions of this process. it seems to me that ten years to wage a conflict is too long, and it is up to the commission to find a short-term solution for the benefit of all concerned. i would, however, like to stress how important it is that all medical devices marketed in the eu comply with all community safety standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which, following a petition by a german citizen relating to the marketing of asthma inhalers, calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to bring to an end a procedure which has unfortunately dragged on for 13 years, with considerable financial losses for the company concerned.
in writing. - i welcome the strong mobilisation of the international community following the devastating earthquake in haiti and its effective political will to support the reconstruction of the country, and in particular the commitment made collectively by the commission and the member states of eur 1.2 billion, including eur 460 million in non-humanitarian aid from the commission. however, the scale of the disaster in haiti is deplorable, and its effects are still very much visible one year after the earthquake. the conditions of security, health, public health and housing are still deplorable and it is essential to immediately restore the capacity of the haitian state to make democracy and good governance work in the country, which is essential for its reconstruction, and to ensure the involvement of civil society and the haitian population. it remains crucial to help this country recover from the earthquake, but it is important that the international community take advantage of this opportunity to help solve the problem of economic, social and political imbalances in haiti.
in writing. - after one year, the effects of the disaster in haiti are devastating and the situation is chaotic from the human, economic and social point of view. it is with regret that i note that reconstruction is almost nil, the rubble removed is minuscule, the levels of extreme poverty, violence is rampant and the cholera outbreak is spreading and women are raped in the refugee camps. it is crucial to change this status quo! the international community, in conjunction with the haitian government, must make a firm long-term commitment, keep its promises and make every effort to protect the haitian people. i urge the european commission to make urgent efforts to protect the more than 800 000 children exposed to violence, sexual abuse, child labour and trafficking. i also believe that the integration of local food production and food security through the development of rural infrastructure and aid to small farmers is essential in the reconstruction effort. i would like to commend the efforts and work of the humanitarian organizations on the ground, but i would also condemn the inability of the interim commission for the recovery of haiti to coordinate the thousands of humanitarian agencies and donors of the recovery funds.
in writing. - the terrible catastrophe that struck haiti a year ago shocked us all and triggered a worldwide wave of goodwill, with the immediate and large-scale provision of logistical, human, financial and humanitarian resources. after a year, it was worth reassessing the situation on the ground, especially since haiti no longer fills the headlines of the mass media... the resolution presented today makes this assessment and points out ways and solutions to the immense and serious problems faced by the population in their daily lives. in my view, it does well, but there is a greater need for involving local communities and associations in the distribution and the search for solutions for the future. i would, however, stress the firm focus on long-term commitment in the search for solutions to tackle the underlying causes of poverty in haiti once and for all, and the call for the eu/member states to integrate local food production and security into haiti's reconstruction efforts through the development of rural infrastructure and assistance to small farmers. i also hope that a definitive solution will be found quickly to the makeshift refugee camps where about a million people are living in almost inhuman conditions.
in writing. - just over a year ago, the world watched in shock as the earthquake devastated haiti, killing more than two hundred thousand people and leaving a trail of destruction that was truly staggering. at that time, the international community mobilized to reach out to the victims, and international institutions, as well as worldwide public and published opinion, echoed that same commitment. unfortunately, the international attention seems to have been focused on other stops, and it is the european parliament's job to remember what happened and to take stock of the situation. one year later, it is necessary to recognize that nothing has changed significantly and that the country, already in serious difficulties and having collapsed under the force of nature, has not yet managed to recover. all indicators indicate this fact when available data are compiled: nothing seems to have run at the speed, efficiency or competence that it should. more than a million people remain homeless. the international community cannot abandon this country or it will become another failed state.
in writing. − one year after the earthquake, the situation in haiti remains chaotic, the country remains in a state of emergency and reconstruction is beginning with difficulty. i welcome the work carried out on the ground by humanitarian organisations in caring for the wounded, providing clean water and distributing food. i would stress, however, that the role of reconstruction lies with the haitian government, since it is above all political stability that can help the reconstruction of the country. i therefore call on the haitian government to continue and implement the commitments made in the national reconstruction plan and to strengthen the authority of the state to make local governance more effective by strengthening the capacities of local and national institutions.
in writing. the eu is also concerned about the situation in haiti, which is a major source of concern for the haitian people. it is concerned about the situation in haiti, which is a major source of concern for the haitian people. after having imposed on it, through the imf and the world bank, structural adjustment policies which destroyed its economy and caused a catastrophic social situation, the united states responded to last year's earthquake with a military invasion. to all this has recently added a cholera epidemic that is now known to have originated in the soldiers of the un mission in the country, minustah (although this denies responsibility). the majority of parliament says nothing about these facts. and it says nothing about those who have shown real solidarity with haiti: cuba and alba. cuba has sent doctors and specialists who have so far treated more than 50 000 people for cholera and, with the help of the haitian authorities, have been able to reach the most isolated communities, thus ensuring that no citizen of that country is left without assistance to deal with cholera, thus saving thousands of lives.
in writing. - the tragedy in haiti, where more than 200 000 people were killed and more than 3 million haitians were affected, recently marked its one-year anniversary. even today, human rights organizations report that there are still a million displaced persons living in inhumane conditions in makeshift refugee camps. the international community, including the eu, made a huge effort a year ago to help haiti and to prevent the natural disaster from having the effects that are now being experienced. it is time to remember those who are suffering enormously, especially the most vulnerable, such as women and children, and to join forces to bring everything back to normal in this country, which has been ravaged by natural disasters.
in writing. − one year after the terrible earthquake that devastated haiti, the situation remains chaotic, the country remains in a state of emergency and the general population lives in conditions of extreme precariousness, requiring the international community, including the eu, to make a strong long-term commitment to the effective implementation of the promises made in support of the reconstruction of haiti and the improvement of the living conditions of the haitian people.
in writing. − in view of the international and european human rights obligations to which the eu is subject, in particular to respect the rights of all minorities and to combat all forms of discrimination, it is not acceptable for one of its member states to enshrine rules which clearly call into question the values and principles on which the union is founded. i respect the right of any state to discuss, amend and adopt national provisions without any external interference, provided that it does so in full respect of human rights and without violating fundamental principles, in this case the principle of non-discrimination, enshrined in both the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. i hope that lithuania, or any other member state in the same situation, will refrain from adopting or will review and amend any national rules which are in conflict with any rule, principle or value enshrined in european law as diligently and swiftly as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu institutions and the member states have an obligation to ensure that human rights are respected, protected and promoted, in accordance with the european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6 of the treaty on european union, without any distinction on grounds of sexual orientation.
in writing. − on 12 november 2010, the lithuanian parliament decided to open the procedure for the examination of the amendment to the lithuanian administrative code, according to which the public promotion of homosexual relations should be punishable by a fine. these amendments are currently under consideration by the lithuanian authorities. this is still relevant to our considerations, since no legislation has yet been adopted which violates any community rule. i therefore refrain from assessing political, legislative and judicial acts which fall within the exclusive competence of the lithuanian legislative, executive and judicial authorities. i cannot, however, fail to urge the lithuanian authorities to remain faithful to respect for freedom and the principle of equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
in writing. − the european union and its institutions have a duty and a responsibility to uphold respect for human rights, including for any minority. in this context, it is necessary to reject and combat all forms of discrimination, in particular on grounds of sexual orientation. in this context, i support parliament's resolution as an initiative to reaffirm the values and principles on which the identity of the european union is based, without this being able to call into question the basic principle of subsidiarity. i would stress the recognition and respect for the right of a member state, as in the case of lithuania, to be able to freely discuss and confront different concepts and ideas in the processes of amending and adopting national laws. i would also stress that the lithuanian authorities reaffirm their determination to respect and not go against the european legal framework and to promote respect for human rights.
in writing. − it is the task of the eu institutions and its member states to ensure that human rights are respected, protected and promoted in the european union, in accordance with the european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6 of the treaty on european union, without any distinction on grounds of sexual orientation. the resolution goes in that direction, warning the lithuanian state that it is violating freedom and the principle of equality and non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
in writing. − the eu institutions and the member states have an obligation to ensure that human rights are respected, protected and promoted, in accordance with the european convention on human rights, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6 of the treaty on european union, without any distinction on grounds of sexual orientation. it is therefore necessary to urge the lithuanian authorities to refrain from adopting any legislation which would infringe the principle of equality and non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
religious freedom statistics show that in recent years, most acts of religious violence have been committed against christians. in 2010, the number of attacks against christian communities increased alarmingly. unfortunately, there are many innocent lives to be lost as a result of the bloody attacks on the christian community in nigeria and pakistan, the terrorist attacks on coptic christians in alexandria and the philippines, acts of terrorist jihad against assyrian christian families and the coordinated bombings of christian homes in baghdad. we also deplore and condemn the persecution of christians in the islamic republic by the iranian government and the repression of the activities of the catholic church and other religious communities in vietnam. the european union must strengthen its longstanding commitment to the pursuit of freedom of religion, freedom of conscience and freedom of thought, which are fundamental principles of the european acquis. governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms. i therefore call on the council, the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to act swiftly, firmly and forcefully to ensure the protection of religious freedom in the world.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. but development, being essential and long-term, is no longer enough on its own. the eu needs, as high representative ashton said today, a coherent strategy with the use of all instruments, including those aimed at reforming the security sectors of the countries in the region and at democratic and institutional capacity building. because that is not how the european union has acted. we look closely at guinea-bissau, which has now become a narco-state and from which the european union has recently withdrawn a mission under the esdp. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. another example of what the european union is not doing as it should in the sahel is the way it has washed its hands of the search for a solution to the conflict in western sahara. if we continue to look at the - even now - over the top fuse of what is happening in tunisia and the consequences for the whole region, we will only worsen the security conditions in the sahel, providing yet another cornered and desperate generation for the criminal and terrorist organizations like al-qaeda in the maghreb, which are already at large in the region. we cannot continue to be without that coherent strategy in action that mrs ashton spoke of.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the situation in libya, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the situation in libya. some member states have strong relations with libya and are keen to ensure that they are properly anchored in the union's core values and interests. we therefore support the development of relations with libya through the establishment of a framework agreement covering various areas of cooperation with a view to stimulating substantive political dialogue. but we must not forget that libya is ruled by a dictatorial regime with a history of serious human rights violations and terrorist attacks and meddling in other countries, although it has shown signs in recent years of wanting to make headway. the framework agreement with libya can therefore only be approved by this parliament if certain conditions are met. it is a sine qua non condition that libya allows the united nations high commissioner for refugees to resume operations in the country with an extended mandate. i dare say it clearly: without unhcr there is no deal. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years. any readmission agreement between the european union and libya should exclude all those who declare themselves to be asylum seekers, refugees or persons in need of international protection and should be implemented in full compliance with the principle of non-refoulement. the very serious situation of the 400 eritreans who were on the verge of being expelled en masse from libya last summer must not happen again. the european union must encourage libya to adopt legal and social solutions that will improve the inhumane living conditions of the approximately 2 million migrant workers in libya, about a quarter of the population. these immigrants deserve legal protection and cannot be treated any longer as abid, slaves. the european union must invest in joint programmes to combat the growing trafficking in human beings, which has devastating consequences, especially for women and children. the european union's support for iom and all organisations working to support migrants in transit in libya must be stepped up to improve the conditions of migrants held in detention centres which are beginning to fill up again, despite having been suddenly emptied in the middle of last year. the union cannot afford to fail to persuade libya to commit itself to a moratorium on the death penalty and it is essential that it requires the libyan authorities to make public the identities of executed nationals and foreigners. the union should insist that libya ratify the rome statute of the international criminal court. in the framework of cooperation, the union should encourage reforms that modernise social, political and judicial structures, that open up the country to the outside world, that expose society to free information, that promote the independence of the media and that invest in the institutional capacity building of business, labour and other representative civil society organisations. the bouazizi revolution in tunisia cannot but have repercussions in neighbouring libya and this even the gaddafi regime can understand. we need to strengthen the support we provide to the libyan health sector through the benghazi action plan, extending it to other medical facilities and other public health needs. we are aware that the negotiations between the european commission and libya are at an advanced stage, although they are facing difficulties in the area of trade and energy cooperation. we would be well advised to establish a european union delegation in tripoli as soon as possible to facilitate the negotiations and to monitor developments in libya. in these recommendations, commissioner, we asked the commission for detailed information on the financial lines used and planned for cooperation with libya. i hope you can provide us with that data soon. finally, i would point out that parliament has only recently had the opportunity to accede to the council's mandate for negotiations. this is unacceptable and cannot continue. finally, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their collaboration, which was essential to the broad consensus that was reached on this potentially divisive issue.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who have participated in this debate. i think this debate highlights the dilemmas we face. from my own visit to libya, as part of the delegation led by our colleague mr panzeri in november 2010, i came to the conclusion that we have to pursue the line of engagement. we recognise that we have to deal with a difficult interlocutor, but it would be unconscionable not to pursue that line because there are humanitarian obligations towards the people who are suffering so much in libya, in particular the migrants who are going through libya and enduring the situation there. i believe that many of the difficulties are due to the fact that this regime is isolated. despite the difficulties, and despite having no illusions that we will achieve an agreement soon or that all the conditions that we put forward will be met, we need to pursue that line. in my opinion this is clear. indeed in that sense having the eu delegation established in tripoli is extremely important because i think that – as many have said here – what is happening in tunisia now is bound to have repercussions in libya, despite the differences. in libya we are not dealing with a similar situation in many respects because of the total dependency on the people of income from oil. nevertheless i think that the message is that, despite our different perceptions at this stage, we are committed to following closely the negotiations by the commission. i am grateful for the briefings we have had and which have been useful. we will follow them very closely and will be able to make recommendations at any time. i think that through the very wide consensus achieved with the collaboration of my shadow rapporteurs and everybody, we are conveying a very clear message to the council and to the commission, which has the task of negotiation, but also to our libyan interlocutors, on what points we believe are absolutely essential to be met if we are to achieve the improvements that we want to see in the bilateral relations, and also on the crucial question of respect for human rights in libya. that message is very clear.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i believe that in these discussions there is always an implicit assumption that humanitarian action is expensive, and we do not do humanitarian action because it is expensive, but there is also a correspondence in this implicit assumption: if it wasn't expensive, we'd do the humanitarian. it turns out that there are cases where a humanitarian policy is a cheaper policy. and a recent study by the house of commons of the british parliament proves exactly that. that a rapid response system for asylum seekers is much cheaper and that, even more costly, is delay and forced removal of families. we are only talking about administrative costs, not including the costs for asylum seekers themselves, both those who are entitled to asylum and those who are then ultimately denied their claims for the right or wrong reasons. and so what's the problem: if we can have humanitarian action, fulfill our moral duties and do it cheaper, why don't we do it? the eu has no concerted action, no common action, and i would like to take the liberty of disagreeing with my colleague mr busuttil here, not because the implementation of the current legislation is costing the member states, but because it is partial, incomplete. we have a policy which is at the moment only repressive and which ends up being unfair to asylum seekers, to administrations and, as we are now discovering, ultimately to the european taxpayers. i ask the council to give us updated information and to answer these questions so that we can finally move towards a consistent and concerted policy.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the authors of this question, and in particular my colleague monika hohlmeier, and i am very much in line with what mr díaz de mera has just said. we know that this is only one of the five instruments which have to do with the foundations of the european asylum system. this is about the minimum standards for asylum procedures. but the report the commission presented to us last year recognises that member states have adopted divergent practices and that there is considerable variation between the procedural safeguards enshrined in each member state. there are significant disparities between member states, ranging from provisions on fast-track procedures to provisions on personal interviews, assistance and access to an effective remedy. let 's be clear: some member states have incorrectly or incompletely transposed this directive and others simply apply it loosely. either we give up on having a european asylum system, or we have to eliminate these procedural differences. we have to make improvements. the improvements that appear necessary, in particular the improvement of the quality of the examination of applications, the so-called front loading. the evaluation we are asking the commission to make is therefore the one that is needed. we need to identify where we can improve and put an end to these differences. we know that the commission needs the cooperation of the member states, in particular by providing the necessary training, including but not limited to cost. let's get this straight. the european institutions and the member states must cooperate to this end. our aim must remain the same: that in 2012 the common asylum system can be a reality.
in writing. − given libya's geographical situation and the economic interdependence between the eu and libya, it is in the common interest to pursue an eu-libya strategic partnership. however, we cannot forget the dictatorial regime that reigns in this country, with no respect for human rights and basic freedoms. despite the clear interest of many member states in pursuing a framework agreement with libya, the eu cannot forget the core values it defends and subordinate itself to economic interests alone. a partnership is needed to implement legal reforms in the field of human rights in this country and at the same time to enable the diversification of the national economy, recalling some progress already made, such as the abandonment of its nuclear programme or even international obligations that the state has in relation to human rights, despite the sanctions applied by the un.
in writing. - i welcome the commitments made through the framework agreement currently under negotiation, which covers a wide range of issues, from strengthening political dialogue to managing migration, developing trade and economic relations, energy security and improving cooperation in various sectors. i believe that the framework agreement could be an opportunity to strengthen the political dialogue between libya and the eu. i emphasise the role of the framework agreement, which provides for actions to assist in the development of institutional capacity, as a means of strengthening civil society, supporting modernisation, encouraging the introduction of democratic reforms and the establishment of an independent media and judiciary, and supporting other efforts to open up space for libyan businesses, academic institutions, ngos and other actors.
in writing. - the economic partnership between europe and libya is already a de facto reality. libya has the largest proven oil reserves in africa and is the third largest supplier of energy (oil and gas) to europe. in addition, the eu is libya's largest trading partner (70% of its total trade in 2009). europe continues to recognise that libya has an important role to play in the field of regional and global security, in the context of the containment of islamic extremism and also in the context of regional stabilisation. it is therefore welcome that a framework partnership agreement is being negotiated, which, as the report makes clear, should not leave out certain issues which i consider to be fundamental: the progressive democratization of the regime; greater respect for human rights, particularly freedom, in all its aspects; a progressive change in the penal system towards the abolition of the death penalty; acceptance of the jurisdiction of the international criminal court and accession to the 1951 geneva convention.
in writing. − the opening of negotiations by the european union with libya is an opportunity to secure better conditions for the economic development of both parties and, at the same time, to promote serious developments in the mediterranean region and in africa in terms of respect for human rights and its contribution to global peace and stability and to the fight against climate change. libya has a population of 6 million, of which 2 million are foreigners. it has the largest proven oil reserves in africa and is the third largest supplier of energy (in oil and gas) in europe. the eu is its largest trading partner: transactions between the two parties accounted for almost 70% of libya's total trade in 2009. the framework partnership agreement with the eu should be seen as an opportunity to highlight the advantages of humanist values and democracy for sustainable and diversified development. as the report warns, this process cannot be dissociated from the eu's core values, such as the fight against the death penalty and discrimination against minorities, immigrants and refugees, the promotion of public health and the need for political democratisation.
in writing. - we are all aware that libya remains a dictatorial regime and systematically violates international conventions on fundamental rights and freedoms. despite these facts, libya has been expanding its trade and political relations with several eu member states. this role of libya as a partner in the mediterranean region and in africa in many areas has proven to have a major impact on the security and stability of the region, including migration, public health, development, trade and economic relations, climate change, energy and cultural heritage. in this context, the framework agreement now being negotiated is important, but we must not leave unanswered a number of fundamental questions, including: a progressive democratisation of the regime, respect for human rights, changes in the penal system, with the abolition of the death penalty as a first priority, and accession to the geneva convention.
in writing. - i congratulate the european union for having repeatedly expressed its commitment to religious freedom, freedom of conscience and freedom of thought. governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms worldwide, considering that the development of human rights, democracy and civil liberties is the common basis on which the european union builds its relations with third countries and is provided for in the democracy clause in agreements concluded between the eu and third countries.
in writing. - i was one of the first to sign this motion for a resolution, which i believe describes quite accurately and appropriately the situation faced by christian minorities in some countries of the middle east. one of the noblest tasks of the european parliament, as far as its external action is concerned, is to defend and promote the values in which we believe, and in this case we are referring specifically to freedom of thought, conscience, expression and religion, freedoms which have clearly been put at risk by cowardly attacks by religious fanatics who have murdered innocent people, sometimes en masse, in a way which i consider inhuman and incomprehensible. i hope that this resolution, which has been endorsed by all the groups in this parliament, will help to raise awareness among the public and among the government and public administration officials of the countries concerned of the importance of the full exercise of fundamental freedoms in their countries and of the need to hold murderers and agitators accountable, and to promote interreligious and intercultural dialogue within and between our societies, which, although living on different continents, share many common values and visions.
in writing. - attacks on christians are increasing all over the world. this disturbing and deplorable fact cannot but be deeply regretted, all the more so since christianity preaches peace and harmony among men, regardless of whether they are jews or greeks, as st. paul would say. what is at stake is the religious freedom and peace of communities that have existed for many centuries and have coexisted peacefully with other religions in the territories where they are found and that are the target of indiscriminate violence just because they believe in christ. but the question is broader. in addition to the attacks, the christian faith and its manifestations have also been attacked in europe itself, often under the cover of misrepresentations of concepts such as secularism and the neutrality of states and institutions. in this connection, i cannot but deplore the recent attacks on the celebration of catholic masses in barcelona and call on the spanish state and the european institutions to condemn and combat the atmosphere of christophobia which seems to be on the increase. a man who denies his own roots deserves little respect from others.
in writing. - everyone has the right to freedom of religion, conscience and thought. this right confers the freedom to manifest one's religion or belief, individually or in association with others, both in public and in private, through worship, observance of rites, practice and teaching. religious freedom statistics show that most acts of religious violence are committed against christians. indeed, it is noted that innocent lives have recently been taken in bloody attacks on the christian community in nigeria, alexandria, the philippines, iraq and syria. in addition, the iranian government has intensified its campaign against christians in the islamic republic. in vietnam, the activities of the catholic church and other religious communities are also severely repressed. in addition to condemning these attacks and urging governments to guarantee freedom of religion, conscience and thought, the council, the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs are called upon to devote greater attention to the issue of freedom of religion and to take concrete action as a matter of urgency, including action against states which deliberately fail to protect religious denominations.
in writing. - we must strongly condemn the various attacks on christian communities all over the world, but particularly in africa, asia and the middle east. the proliferation of these episodes of intolerance and repression, and of violent acts directed against communities, must concern us all. the authorities of the countries concerned have made every effort to identify the perpetrators and those responsible for such attacks against christian communities. it is necessary that those responsible for these attacks and other acts of violence against christians be brought to justice and duly judged.
in writing. - i am very concerned, but i must also say with great hope, that i look at the political and social situation in belarus. that is why i wholeheartedly support this joint resolution, which has been endorsed by five parliamentary groups (minus the gue/ngl confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left). but rather than deplore what is happening, which is well described in the resolution, i would like to stress the concrete measures which this resolution points to and which i believe both the council and the commission should put into effect immediately: the application of economic sanctions; the freezing of all financial aid granted through the imf as well as through the eib and the ebrd; support by all possible means of the efforts of belarusian civil society towards a freer and more democratic society; the reinstatement of the visa ban on belarusian senior leaders, extending it to senior officials; the suspension of belarus' participation in the eastern partnership activities at the eastern partnership summit to be held in budapest; and finally, the intensification of work on the negotiation of visa facilitation agreements and direct contacts with the population, with a view to strengthening contacts between the populations.
in writing. - belarus is the only country in the world where a police force called the kgb still operates. this simple fact is symbolically illustrative of the type of regime that prevails there. the citizens of belarus demand and deserve effective changes that improve their living conditions, effectively promote democracy and allow them full political self-determination. i hope that the democratic countries will understand the extent to which the belarusian regime is incapable of promoting the democratization of the country and will oppose its repressive means and methods head-on.
in writing. − based on the results and preliminary conclusions of the osce pa and the osce/odihr, the presidential elections of 19 december 2010 failed to meet international standards for free, fair and transparent elections. it therefore calls for the rapid holding of new free and democratic elections in accordance with osce standards. the council also condemned the brutal use of force by the police and kgb against demonstrators on election day. i express my grave concern at the attempts by the belarusian authorities to place danil sannikov, the three-year-old son of presidential candidate andrei sannikov and investigative journalist irina khalip, who have both been detained since the 19 december elections, in state custody. it also condemned all repressive measures and urged the belarusian authorities to immediately cease all forms of persecution, intimidation and threats against civil society activists. i believe that the council, the commission and the eu high representative should review the eu's policy towards belarus, opening the possibility of specific economic sanctions and the freezing of all macrofinancial assistance.
in writing. - whatever analysis we may make of what is happening in belarus, we cannot be complicit in this blatant attack on the country's independence and national sovereignty by promoting direct interference in its internal affairs, manipulating events which only the belarusians and the authorities of their country can resolve, in order to try to bend the state and its institutions to the interests of the european union. this resolution is a parade of unacceptable actions aimed at installing in minsk a regime that is permeable to the interests of the eu. here are some examples: - that the commission support, by all financial and political means, the efforts of belarusian civil society, independent media (such as tv belsat, european radio for belarus, radio racja and others) and non-governmental organisations in belarus to promote democracy and oppose the regime; - the commission should set up a mechanism for registering ngos whose registration in belarus is refused for political reasons, in order to allow them to benefit from eu programmes. for all these reasons, we did not vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the situation in belarus should concern all those who believe in democracy and the rule of law. the citizens of this country live under a regime which does not respect human rights and which maintains a very castrating political police. the eu must support all efforts to democratize this regime, which means improving the lives of its people. the repressive measures still in force in belarus must be brought to an end.
in writing. - i welcome this report, since the commission has responded to the crisis and, at the same time, applied the competition policy measures. i support a role for the ep as co-legislator on competition policy and, as long as this is not possible, for the commission to inform parliament in detail about the follow-up to its recommendations and to justify deviations from them. i am disappointed that it has not yet been possible to improve the competitive environment within the single market in a way that is more favourable to smes.
in writing. − eu competition policy is not only a fundamental and truly structural policy of the european legal framework, but also the foundation of a successful internal market and a sustainable and competitive economy. that is why i think it is important that the commission informs parliament of its development and implementation. the year 2009, as we all know, was an extraordinary year in many ways. it was indeed the year after the collapse of lehman brothers (september 2008), which led to the introduction of several exceptional competition measures, notably as regards state aid, the four communications on the financial sector and the temporary framework for the other sectors. i therefore consider it essential that a thorough analysis be made of the impact of these measures on the economy and finances of the various states and that their effectiveness be properly studied so that the appropriate consequences can be drawn.
in writing. − this resolution deals with competition policy 2009 and provides a comprehensive overview of all state aid to the transport sector within the eu, which is essential for the existence of a market without frontiers and with free movement of people, goods and services. the economic crisis of recent years has led to the bankruptcy of many companies and regulatory measures are needed to prevent distortions in this sector, in particular by regulating support for the sector. on the other hand, the eu's peripheral countries have increased costs in this area and financial means are needed to minimise this situation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, welcoming the creation of a set of market monitoring measures, the environmental concern with co2 emissions and the encouragement of research to improve competitiveness in europe, in particular by recommending that the commission and the member states ensure 3% investment in this area.
in writing. - it is unacceptable that, at a time of deepening financial and economic crisis, a 2009 report on competition policy, which advocates competition and insists on further liberalisation, particularly in the railway sector, should be adopted by the european parliament, when it states that the internal rail market must be completed by opening up national passenger transport markets. the same applies to the pharmaceutical sector, where it calls on the commission to speed up the completion of the internal market in medicines, telecommunications, etc. what we have is a report which calls for further liberalization in basic sectors which are essential for the improvement of the people's living conditions, without regard to the consequences for employment, prices and people's lives. it is only interested in the profits of economic and financial groups, even if in one case or another reference is made to the smes that the neoliberal policy of the european union is putting in question. it is always forgotten that so-called free competition only gives the big companies the freedom to crush the small ones, and then the workers, consumers and small businessmen suffer the consequences. for all these reasons, we voted against the report.
in writing. − analysis of the 2009 competition policy report reveals that the economic crisis, which started in 2008, may have had some effect on competition policy itself, in particular because member states have provided support to their economies in various forms. it is time to analyse the consequences of such aid in the internal market and to interpret whether it has distorted free competition. we cannot forget that the eu's competition policy is based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors, which is the foundation of a successful internal market and a precondition for the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs.
in writing. − analysis of the european commission's competition policy report for 2009 allows us to draw conclusions on the benefits of this european policy. european competition policy is one of the key policies of european integration. the underlying idea is to achieve an internal market in which economic operators can freely take up and pursue their activities. i believe that, as the document aims, we need clear competition rules if the creation of smes is to be a possible reality. the european union is currently experiencing one of the most serious periods of economic and financial crisis in its history and the activity of smes is central to the recovery of the economy. i welcome the development of greater synergies between competition policy and consumer protection policy. i regret, however, that there are still distortions of competition in the energy market and i support the invitation to the european commission in the document put to the vote today to monitor closely the implementation of the third energy liberalisation package by the member states.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that three eu member states are members of the arctic council, while iceland is in accession negotiations. the eu has an important role to play in this region, with shared competences in several areas and exclusive competences, such as fisheries. in addition, the eu is at the forefront of certain policies, such as environmental research and climate change. in addition to this, it is necessary to take into account that some arctic partners are already major contributors to the supply of energy, raw materials and fish to europe. its variety of resources and its potential for alternative energies can only be developed through an ecosystem approach and integrated management plans. in addition, the development of new trade routes could benefit the european economy, given europe's privileged position in providing services such as gps coverage through the galileo system.
in writing. − three member states denmark, sweden and finland are part of the arctic council where the eu is an observer member. given that 40% of world maritime trade is held by eu member states, it is essential to ensure the safety of the new global routes through the arctic, in particular for eu member states. like the author of this report, i consider that cooperation to protect the fragile arctic environment, the interests of its inhabitants and the development of the region is very welcome.
in writing. − in the current priority framework for combating climate change, the defence and promotion of the arctic is of crucial importance, not only in environmental terms, but also in terms of economic development and global stability and security. the potential of the region to supply renewable energy and raw fish is highlighted, and the sustainable exploitation of the natural resources of this region is therefore key. the interests of the indigenous peoples of this region must not be underestimated in the process. in this respect, the european union can and must play a leading role in defending the culture, language, customs and living conditions of these indigenous communities. without this, any intervention strategy for safeguarding a capital region of importance for the future of the world's population and the planet will be at risk. i would stress the importance of ensuring the best conditions for scientific research.
in writing. - the relationship between the eu and the arctic is unquestionable, not least because denmark, finland and sweden are arctic countries and both finland and sweden are partly located in the arctic circle. given the contribution of the eu and its member states to research and funding, its impact through eu legislation on the environment, climate, fisheries and similar issues, as well as the possibilities for future cooperation on issues such as the development of mapping and maritime security, economic development and similar issues, it can be concluded that the eu has a major contribution to make to the sustainable development of the arctic. this region will be crucial to a world that is adapting to face climate change, population growth and resource scarcity.
in writing. - i welcome this report on a black sea strategy given the commission's proposal to develop the strategy by setting measurable objectives, sectoral partnerships to facilitate joint projects, among other important measures, the need for an updated assessment of eu action in the black sea region and the fact that there is a great deal of fragmentation in the funding of this strategy, which is financed by several instruments. a separate funding line for this strategy is proposed to end fragmentation. i also welcome the recommendations in this report to promote a stronger policy framework, within an integrated eu approach to this region, which should be reinforced by the implementation of a concrete action plan and adequate human and financial resources.
in writing. − the black sea is partly an eu inland sea and geographically mostly european and, despite the 2007 commission communication entitled 'black sea synergy a new initiative for regional cooperation', steps were taken shortly afterwards to implement an effective strategy for the future of the black sea. i therefore welcome the initiative and the adoption of this report, which i strongly support, and hope that the recommendations now adopted by the european parliament will be welcomed by the commission, the council and our neighbours to the east who share the management of the black sea with us, in particular those relating to frozen conflicts, closed borders and/or poor border control, energy transport, security and defence. only by resolving these issues can the two main objectives proposed by the report be achieved: (1) peace, democracy, stability and prosperity in the region; (2) energy security for the eu.
in writing. − the conflict involving russia and georgia demonstrates the potential for instability in the black sea region and fully justifies the european union adopting a strategy to address the specific challenges facing this part of the world. despite the tension that has not yet ceased, this is also a region that can have a more stable and balanced future, and the union can play an important role in this stabilisation. in this connection, it is necessary not only to set objectives but above all to provide those implementing the european strategy with the human, technical and financial resources to enable them to achieve them in the best possible way. given their own geographical situation, their history and their practical knowledge of the region, romania, bulgaria and greece can make valuable contributions to the strategy to be designed to be appropriate to the objectives of promoting peace, security, democracy, good governance and economic, social and human development.
in writing. - the importance of the black sea for the european union is recognised, as are the problems of instability surrounding this region. in a context encompassing eu member states bulgaria, greece and romania , together with turkey and several states of the former soviet bloc, including russia, the black sea is seen as a key to energy supply and diversification of gas distribution. it is a strategic bridge linking europe to the caspian sea area, central asia and the middle east, as well as southeast asia and china. among many of the differences and rivalries, close historical and cultural ties stand out, as does the importance of intercultural and interfaith dialogue. in this context, the eu needs to be more committed and more effective in implementing measures to help stabilise and revitalise the region, in a process which should involve all the countries concerned.
in writing. - nothing new emerges from this report. the recipes and objectives are the same as those which have long been the focus of the eu's so-called external policy: controlling the region's natural resources, notably oil and natural gas, on which the eu depends, ensuring its uninterrupted supply, and seeking to guarantee access to its markets and the exploitation of workers. the mechanisms for achieving this are also the same: interference and repeated attempts to limit the national sovereignty of these countries through international campaigns run by the major news agencies and ngos funded by eu funds; the push for militarism and the arms race, as in the case of the ongoing rearmament of georgia. and looking for those countries who, in exchange for their own interests or those of the interests they serve, would defend those of the eu, the us and their economic groups, accepting nato's eastward enlargement and allowing the installation of us military bases in the region, which have been used as a supply platform for nato troops in afghanistan. of course, this path is not without its bumps: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union.
in writing. − the black sea region is strategically crucial for the european union because of its geographical location, which encompasses three eu member states, greece, romania and bulgaria, and several important partners, including russia and turkey. on the other hand, concerns about security and energy supply lead to the need for greater involvement between the european union and the states of the region. i therefore agree that the main concerns expressed in the report are to ensure peace, democracy and stability in the black sea region and to ensure the energy security of the european union. the increase in relations between the european union and the black sea region will undoubtedly be important, and the parties can take greater advantage of this and more effective cooperation.
in writing. − the black sea region is of great strategic importance to the european union. this is due to its geographical location, encompassing three eu member states, greece, romania and bulgaria, one candidate country, turkey, and six partners, including russia. in addition, the challenges of energy security and supply require the european union to be more involved and focused in relations with the member states of this region. i therefore subscribe to the concerns expressed in the document voted on today, which must be of two kinds: ensuring peace, democracy and stability in the black sea region and ensuring the energy security of the european union. i believe that from a regional point of view it is necessary to create synergies and develop greater cooperation in order to achieve a more effective partnership in the field of transport and energy, with a view to a greater diversification of supply routes and sources. the deepening of the dialogue between the european union and the black sea region will undoubtedly be beneficial, and the different parties can benefit from more effective cooperation.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that the european union should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations. if we are to talk about brazil, then it would be a real emergency to show all our solidarity with the people who have been hit by the storms that have recently hit the state of rio de janeiro, in particular the cities of nova friburgo, petrópolis and teresópolis, which have caused more than 700 deaths, more than 13 000 displaced persons and incalculable damage. it is regrettable that the european parliament has not spoken out about this tragedy and has not asked the european commission to show active solidarity with the brazilian president and to be available to provide any help that may be needed. so from here we congratulate the new president of brazil, dilma rousseff, on her recent election. we send our feelings of solidarity and deep sorrow for the tragic consequences of the storms, feelings that extend to the brazilian congress, the families of the victims of this tragedy and all the people of brazil. as regards the resolution you are presenting here, we insist on the need to respect the decisions of the legitimate bodies of brazil, where cesare battisti is imprisoned, and to await the decisions of the legitimate bodies of brazil, without pressure from this parliament. that is why i propose that you withdraw the proposal to avoid a regrettable decision. (the president agreed to answer two questions on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
what i have said and what i am saying again is that this is not a real emergency. we know that the brazilian legal authorities are handling this case, that the italian citizen is being held in brazil, and that is why we say that this parliament should not put pressure on the brazilian legal authorities. we must wait for the decisions they will make in their own time. and for emergencies we have here, finally, a whole set of issues, including in brazil, solidarity with the victims of the storms and the more than 700 dead we have at this moment in brazil.
we have said and we will say again, mr president, that this is how we are discussing this issue. we are discussing it at a time when urgent matters should be discussed. even from the statements made by the honourable member, by her colleague, it is clear that it could have been discussed at other times and that it can be discussed at other times. not now with the emergency status. solidarity with the 700 people who died in the tragedy in brazil caused by the storms in recent days was urgent.
in writing. i am against the motion for a resolution because i believe that the case of cesare battisti's extradition should not be discussed in a debate in the ep on urgent situations of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, simply because it does not represent a violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in brazil, nor is it an urgent matter. this is a legal and political dispute between brazil and italy and is pending a decision by the supreme federal court of brazil. the european parliament should be sending brazil two other messages at this moment: solidarity with the catastrophe in which more than 700 people lost their lives; and rejoicing at the democratic election of president dilma rousseff. brazil is undoubtedly a democratic country that has made remarkable progress in political, civil, social, economic and cultural rights during the last decade and is a model of the fight against poverty and hunger, thanks to the government programs fome zero and bolsa família.
the president of the council. - ladies and gentlemen of the house, commissioner. it is a great pleasure to address you before the next european council, despite the fact that the role of the rotating presidency is defined by the lisbon treaty as the primary responsibility for preparing the european council rests with the permanent president. at the same time, it worked very closely with the permanent president in preparing the european council meeting, for example in the context of the general affairs council held on monday under the hungarian presidency. we also naturally monitor the implementation of the european council conclusions, both in the general affairs council and in the other council formations. first, let me outline the main issues on the agenda for the february meeting, which will focus primarily on energy and innovation. in the context of defining the europe 2020 strategy, the european council decided in march 2010 to hold a thematic debate on energy and innovation. i think it goes without saying that these two sectors are crucial for european growth and jobs. the european council's task is not only to respond to immediate crises but also to formulate strategic guidelines for the future. let's start with the energy issue. energy security is a priority for all of us. this requires greater integration and interconnection of the energy market. we need to increase our r&d spending, make our economy more competitive and sustainable, and strengthen our cooperation with the main transit, energy producing and energy consuming countries. the first element is therefore an integrated and interconnected energy market. we need to have a complete internal energy market. to this end, the european council will have to decide on a number of important steps. firstly, the legislation on the internal energy market needs to be implemented. we have to do more on the regulatory level. for example, we need to simplify the procedures for authorising the construction of new infrastructure. in addition, we need to make a serious effort to modernise and expand europe's energy infrastructure and to link markets through cross-border cooperation. no country, no region of the union can remain isolated. all this must be financed primarily by the private sector. in addition, appropriate cost-sharing principles should be established for cross-border investments. thirdly, there will be projects which, although of great importance for energy security, are not attractive enough for private capital to finance in full. in such cases, it may be appropriate to provide limited public funding for projects from member states or union sources. the current negotiations are not, however, intended to prejudge the debate on the multiannual financial framework, which is due to start at the end of june. the second big energy issue is energy efficiency and renewable energy. these - needless to say - increase competitiveness and promote security of energy supply and sustainability at lower costs. the council will examine in 2011 the proposal that the commission will present for a new energy efficiency plan. the proposal will take account of the progress made towards the eu's energy efficiency target for 2013 and will include further measures. external relations are also of paramount importance in energy policy. there is a need to coordinate more systematically union and member state activities in relation to key producer, transit and consumer countries. for example, it would be appropriate for member states to share information on contracts concluded not only for natural gas, as they currently do, but also for other types of energy. concrete work should be initiated to develop partnerships with key actors on regulatory approaches on all issues of common interest. this applies, of course, to russia, but also to all the union's partners and neighbours. let's move on to the topic of innovation. innovation is what can help address the most critical societal challenges of our time, such as health, food security, energy security, sustainable development, climate change and an ageing population, and also offer opportunities for new markets. innovation can also help to resolve the dilemma between fiscal austerity and growth-friendly policies. how can we finance growth before it becomes self-sustaining? we can't do it on credit, because we don't want to. we want to stop the debt. so innovation is about unlocking the resources of creativity to provide the right answers. so, within the innovation theme, we need to focus on addressing major societal challenges, moving towards the european research area. we need to create free mobility for researchers, improve the framework conditions for innovative enterprises and the european council should also address the prioritisation of state aid. energy and innovation: investing for the future. the european council must also deal with current economic and financial issues, since we all know that the crisis is not yet completely behind us. the situation is fragile. we must do everything we can to protect the single currency, the euro, and we must calm the markets. the european financial stability facility should therefore be strengthened, and stress tests on banks should be mentioned. the hungarian presidency is particularly committed to the six-pack of economic governance legislation. we would like to inform the heads of state and government of our position in the consultations in both the council and the parliament. finally, the heads of state or government will also be discussing the need for further joint measures to ensure competitiveness, and of course, in the current acute situation, they will also be talking about tunisia and egypt. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i hope that we will have a european council on very difficult subjects, where you can formulate specific questions which will also define the work of the council for the coming months, and president herman van rompuy will report to you after the meeting.
president of the commission. − mr president, this european council takes place at a very important moment for our neighbourhood, namely egypt, tunisia and belarus. while respecting the different specific situations in these countries, i expect this european council to state in very clear terms that the principles of the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights and pluralist democracy must be enacted and respected. democracy is indeed the best way to achieve stability and prosperity in those countries, just like anywhere else. this friday, the european council will discuss two areas which are also very important for the future of europe and its economy: energy and innovation. both of them are core elements of the europe 2020 strategy and central to our aim of restoring sustainable growth and increasing the european union’s competitiveness. and let us not forget that energy and innovation are also two fields where the community approach and european dimension can offer a lot of value added. this is an important point to make in the current context. through the europe 2020 strategy we have already agreed on a set of ambitious goals and targets on energy innovation. i could mention the innovation union flagship initiative, adopted last october, or the resource efficient europe flagship initiative, adopted just last week and in which energy features prominently. so this week’s european council should identify clear, concrete deliverables. the discussion and outcome should be as operational and productive as possible. i have described energy policy as the next great european integration project and it is not hard to see why a safe, secure, sustainable, affordable energy supply is key to our economic and strategic interests as a global player. we have already done a lot in the past with our climate and energy package and with internal market legislation. we must build on that by exploiting the opportunities provided by the lisbon treaty, deepening our existing cooperation and launching initiatives in new areas like energy security. therefore the first credibility test of our energy policy is delivering what we have already agreed upon. the commission has outlined the measures we think are urgently needed in our energy 2020 and energy infrastructure communications. i want the european council to endorse these priorities and, in particular, make a clear commitment to completing our internal energy market by 2014. a common technical standard should also be fixed for electric vehicle charging systems this year, as well as for smart grids and meters by the end of 2012. a truly integrated internal market on energy is key to delivering more growth and jobs, promoting technological progress, modernising our infrastructure and reducing our exposure to import and price volatility. we must also ensure that, when it comes to energy, no member state is isolated from the rest of europe. i want member states to agree on a 2015 deadline to put an end to energy islands in europe. we have done good work in connecting the baltic countries to the continental system. now i will turn to central and eastern europe to move forward the north-south energy interconnections. i want a plan to be agreed in the autumn on the projects needed to link the baltic to the adriatic. while we are on track to achieve our renewables targets, on present performance we will only meet half of our energy efficiency targets. more efficient energy use is the key to unlocking massive environmental and economic benefits – and reducing europe’s annual energy bill by around eur 200 billion. it could also create two million jobs by 2020. so i will ask the european council to give new impetus to our pursuit of energy efficiency. we could use the scale of public procurement across the eu to give a real boost to energy efficiency and this means local jobs, jobs that cannot be outsourced, jobs for smes and real savings for both industry and households. the commission will adopt in the coming weeks an energy efficiency plan proposing specific measures to boost energy efficiency; for instance, that by 1 january 2012 all member states should include energy efficiency standards in public procurement. the commission will then review the progress achieved with these measures by 2013 and will consider further measures, including proposing legally binding targets if necessary. member states should agree a deadline for including energy efficiency standards in all public procurement for public buildings and services. for its part, the commission stands ready to explore new measures in the fields of energy saving for cities, sustainable biofuels, smart grids and energy storage. we also need to focus on the external dimension of european energy policy. just a fortnight ago i had encouraging discussions with the presidents of azerbaijan and turkmenistan on europe’s access to the caspian gas fields, which would enable the realisation of the southern corridor. an important breakthrough was achieved with the signature of a joint declaration with azerbaijan and a concrete commitment from turkmenistan to supply gas to europe. the message i took from that visit is this: when we take key decisions on energy jointly in europe, we are a strong player in the global race for energy resources. underlining the importance of the external dimension of the european union energy policy should be a key message from the european council, so i am looking forward to a very important discussion on energy at this european council and – i am happy to say this – here in the european parliament. i know this parliament is very supportive of a strong european policy on energy and the president of parliament has been a champion of a stronger commitment by europe in terms of energy policy. moving now to innovation, i think there is already broad agreement about what should come out of the european council. perhaps less evident is a sense of how urgent, how desperately urgent, action is; why boosting research and innovation is needed now, when member states are all making difficult choices about where to cut their budgets. fiscal consideration and public support for innovation are not irreconcilable policies. several member states have shown that you can cut your overall budget while maintaining growth-friendly expenditure, in particular on research and innovation. this is important because delivering the innovation economy is the key deep structural change. our competitors know this, they are already betting on innovation. to avoid being left behind, we need the european council’s endorsement of our strategic and integrated approach to innovation. innovation needs to be part of our economic policy, not simply a research instrument, as some people think. at european level we can add real value by improving the framework conditions for research and innovation in the european union. europe must become the natural home of innovation, through effective standardisation, better use of intellectual property rights, innovation-friendly public procurement and measures to help small innovative companies to secure financing. much of this does not cost money, but it does need political will. and the political will to take measures using a european approach and a european dimension. we can also squeeze much more out of the european research area, making full use of the single market by improving the mobility of researchers, for example. and as well as maintaining spending, we need to spend better. with the budget review we have launched a debate on how to simplify the way european union money is spent, and to work towards a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding. in other words, getting better value for money also means cutting red tape, so that eu-funded scientists can spend more time in the lab or on their work, and not on red tape and bureaucracy. we will never attract the most brilliant scientists and most innovative companies with an incoherent set of funding instruments based on complex and bureaucratic rules. so this month’s european council will discuss energy and innovation. but it will not avoid discussing the economy. the economy, the problems of the unemployed, these remain the most important concerns for our citizens. we have just launched the first european semester – putting economic governance into action. the annual growth survey was well received. the messages were focused and clear. it provides the necessary guidance at european union level so that member states can take our interdependence into account when making their national policy decisions. good progress has already been made on the legislative proposals that will underpin our new system of economic governance. i would like to thank the hungarian presidency. the hungarian presidency has my full support in accelerating work to ensure adoption by june. in addition, as part of this comprehensive response, we will need to resolve the outstanding issues surrounding the european financial stability facility (efsf) and the european stability mechanism. regarding the efsf, other than widening its scope, what is at stake now is how to increase its effective lending capacity – as stated by the commission in the annual growth survey. of course, this issue should be put in the context of the comprehensive response. the discussions in the european council of friday next will most likely cover the need for reinforced coordination of economic policies in the european union and the euro area. i welcome such a discussion, which fits very well with the commission’s annual growth survey. in fact, the european semester is not just about coordinating budgetary policies, but addressing wider issues like macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness gaps. in addition, we have recently heard some authoritative voices arguing in favour of deepening economic governance, but at the same time stating that it can only be done through the intergovernmental method. we have to be clear about this: the commission welcomes the deepening and acceleration of economic governance and policy coordination, including within the euro area. but we are firmly convinced that the treaty provides the right framework and instruments to achieve this. in fact, we would not further our cause if parallel structures were to work in an ultimately incoherent manner. establishing a system of reinforced economic governance for the eu, and in particular the euro area outside the union framework, raises important, and politically very sensitive, questions. in fact, member states should adopt measures which are fully compatible with the community method and the framework provided by the treaty. insofar as measures fall under national competence – and of course some of them are under national responsibility –this competence should be exercised in coherence with the overall union framework. i really believe this matter is extremely important because we can, in fact, make great progress in matters of economic governance. we need – and we have been arguing in favour of this – more policy coordination and better economic governance, but we have to do it in a way that is coherent and compatible with the treaties and with a community approach. the commission will be particularly attentive to these issues. the treaty, with the ensuing ‘community method’, implies full respect for the role of all the european institutions.
as we know, energy is a vital sector for creating new jobs and opportunity should therefore be the keyword of this council which we are now preparing. but unfortunately, it is not. when we need concrete investment to address the energy efficiency of our cities, and particularly in countries that are being subjected to the greatest speculative attacks and, above all, in countries that have the highest levels of unemployment, what we get from governments are answers that are the old recipes and it is on them that we continue to insist. what we need in this council is an energy revolution. we don't just need more public-private partnerships, that's insisting on failure. we are still very much stuck with the old energy, fossil fuels, nuclear energy and very unambitious about the new energy, which is the only one that can guarantee equal access and which is the only one that can guarantee that a large project is as important as a local project. only by putting everything together could we have an integrated policy, and that is why a council which should be a breakthrough is a council of continuity. and i ask you, mr president, for permission to make just one final appeal: because emergency situations require emergency appeals, and the appeal i ask you to make is to ask european leaders, in relation to what is happening in egypt, to show at least as much solidarity with the people on the street as they have shown with the authoritarian regimes, while these have governed on the basis of the economy and not on the basis of respect for democracy.
we know that the deepening of the single market means more liberalization and then greater concentration of monopolies in favour of the largest economic groups in the most developed countries of the european union. we want to make clear here our opposition to this path in areas which are strategic for economic and social development, particularly in the peripheral countries, such as energy issues. but the most serious thing is that all that has been said here by the council and the commission, particularly on the strengthening of economic governance, ignores the reality of social problems, the worsening of inequalities, unemployment, social exclusion and energy poverty, which is growing exponentially in some countries with the increase in electricity and fuel prices. economic and energy policies should have a central objective: social progress, the improvement of the living conditions of our peoples, but the opposite is happening. so here is the indignation we see growing in the streets in many of our countries and now also in tunisia, in egypt, to whose people we send our solidarity and also want their rights to be respected, in particular by the council, which should take a clear position on all this.
i have no doubt that this council will be very important, particularly in relation to the relaunch of european economies, particularly in the areas of energy and innovation. and so i would like to stress that this council is, at bottom, part of the implementation of this 2020 strategy for europe and is therefore part of that half, or that side of the coin which is the side of growth, competitiveness, the revival of economies. but because it is so important, i wanted to leave it here, and that is the meaning of my speech, an appeal. i would like to ask the council to discuss, among other important issues, energy and innovation, and to prepare a solution to the financial crisis in the european union. i don't think we have time to waste. and if we cannot expect the council to come to a decision on this problem next friday, if we cannot expect the council to come to a decision on this problem next friday, although we expect it in march, it is essential that the heads of government and the heads of state of the european union prepare, as from 4 february, for the flexibilization of the stabilisation fund and also, at the same time, for the relaunching of the european economic govern ment. i think this is an essential matter and cannot be left out of this council. and now, if i may, i would like to make another note to this council: that this council should also prepare a european union strategy for the mediterranean. that it should prepare a response to the situation in tunisia and egypt today. it is therefore, despite the importance of energy and innovation, that the financial and political crisis in the north african countries should be dealt with by this council.
mr president, energy and innovation are two very important subjects, which are at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy and which can contribute to sustainable and smart growth and to the creation of more and better jobs. in fact, energy and innovation are areas in which my country, portugal, has made major investments with good results. in recent years portugal has doubled its investment in r&d and has reached the top 5 for renewable energy, so that 31% of electricity consumed is already from renewable sources and is expected to be 60% by 2020. but this council cannot ignore, as has already been said here, what is happening in egypt, a popular revolution. and you cannot ignore the financial and economic crisis. the euro area member states with the most difficulty are doing the right thing by adopting the austerity measures needed to contain the deficit and calm the markets, measures that require great sacrifices from households and businesses. and is the european union doing the right thing? i don't think he is! in the face of speculators' attacks on the euro - because it is through sovereign debts that speculators attack the single currency - the european response has been casuistic, delayed and ineffective. the diagnosis is made and the recipe is known. the european union must improve economic coordination and strengthen and make the financial stability facility more flexible so that it can buy up the public debt of the countries most under pressure from the markets. so we are facing global problems that require a global response. this is also what the citizens expect from the next european council.
in writing. this council adopts energy and innovation as its topics of discussion. it is proposed to deepen and 'complete' the single market for electricity and gas. we know very well that this statement has been synonymous with limitations on the full exercise by the states of their social function, through public services properly equipped, financed and operating; synonymous with liberalization and privatization, which is followed, sooner or later, by the inevitable monopolistic concentration at eu level. in this vital strategic area, it will be no different. in the meantime, and as a way of making this path more feasible, questions concerning the security of energy supply are raised (demagogically), which are certainly relevant and should be considered and solved, but in a different context. innovation is seen, first and foremost, as a mere means of 'marketing ideas' and not - as it should be - as a necessary means of helping to respond to many of the problems and challenges facing humanity. but it was clear during the debate that these issues are no more than a biome for another discussion: that of deepening the nefarious and anti-democratic mechanisms of the so-called 'economic governance' and tightening the straitjacket on peoples and countries like portugal and others.
the areas of energy and innovation are key to growth and jobs. energy is a major project of european integration, as the internal market was in the past. europe needs an ambitious vision and a concrete plan in the area of innovation and energy. i hope that the european council on friday will be an essential milestone in this respect. much has been done in the european energy and climate strategy, but we need to go further. we need to maintain technological leadership: • invest more in research and innovation; • build the necessary infrastructure; • train more engineers, scientists and technicians. at this critical time, when we are going through an economic crisis, action is urgent. and there's one way to do that: radically change the way we produce and use energy in our society.
the world, and europe in particular, cannot remain indifferent to the strength of an intense popular protest movement that is taking place in several countries in north africa and the middle east, nor fail to recognize the importance and legitimacy of these demonstrations. we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a source of great concern for the people of europe. we are living in a rare moment in history, one of those who change their course and build new realities. it must be stated objectively that extremist islamism has emerged as a political, rather than a religious, response to some of these problems, fuelled by and in response to social exclusion. the future of this region needs solid, tolerant and respectful democracies of minorities, where the state is a promise for all and not the abuse of a few. there is a part of the world next door that has to take advantage of this moment of rebirth to deepen a path of peace and social progress. to prove that in this neighboring region, regardless of their religious beliefs, political preferences, or ethnicity, all can coexist in peace and with mutual respect. finally, madam president, europe as a whole, and not just some leaders in concert or in isolation - in english we say, madam high representative, 'it is difficult to be a parish priest in your parish' - must take a clear political leadership role in helping these reforms and find a new paradigm for the middle east, free of radicalism, respect for human rights, and women's rights in particular.
madam president, i think that these two countries, like others in the region, show us how, in recent years, european leaders have often been more on the side of business than democracy, more on the side of dictators than on the side of the poor. i am frankly concerned about the situation in egypt and the developments there, and that is why i believe that we should not be calm but should show solidarity with the millions of egyptian men and women in cairo and throughout the country who are tired of hunger, tired of oppression, tired of unemployment. and that is why, after today's speech by mubarak, after the dogs of the regime have been let loose, after an open and clean path to violence has been created, we must say that we must stand with these people. we cannot allow a strategy of fear to be created to bring them home. thirty-six years ago, in portugal, we would have gone home if we had listened to those words. it's a good thing we didn't go back, because then we had a democratic revolution.
the wave of indignation and the struggles of the peoples of african countries, especially the peoples of tunisia and egypt, demand our greatest attention and solidarity. in the specific case of egypt, whose people continue to fight for their social and labour rights, for social justice, democracy and freedom, we strongly condemn the repression which, on the orders of the government of hosni mubarak, has been and continues to be directed against the workers and the people in struggle, and we pay tribute to the approximately 100 egyptian citizens killed by state violence. like tunisia and several other countries in the arab world and africa, the situation in egypt is inseparable from the deepening crisis of capitalism and the violent anti-social offensive that characterizes it, in particular with the exponential growth of unemployment among young people and the exponential rise in food prices. the recent events in egypt and the broad popular mobilization which characterizes them are also inseparable from the courage, persistence and determination of representative workers' organizations and other popular and progressive forces which, for many years and in very difficult conditions, have been developing important processes of struggle. we insist on the defence of a political solution found in the framework of strict respect for the sovereign will of the egyptian people, free from any interference, manoeuvres or external pressures.
in writing. the events taking place in numerous arab countries, particularly in tunisia and egypt, are manifestations that will go down in history as the liberation of peoples from authoritarian regimes that do not comply with the basic rules of a democratic society: the rule of law and the defence of human rights. i think it will now be important to rethink the short and longterm strategies for tunisia and egypt in the long process of democratic transition, avoiding the rise to power of extremism. i welcome the eu's pre-election legal assessment and observation mission to tunisia. similar measures should be taken as soon as stability is achieved in egypt. however, i consider it extremely important to review the neighbourhood policy, which we have seen fails to achieve one of its objectives, the promotion of democracy and human rights. i think that the approach to euro-mediterranean agreements should be more diversified and have a direct impact on civil society. the dialogue with tunisia, egypt and the neighbouring countries must continue in order to ensure democratic stability. this requires the development of strategies and the strengthening of the means available for the necessary socioeconomic and political reforms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have said this before in this house and i will say it again today. the outermost regions, and in particular madeira, the region from which i come, have no objection whatsoever to the conclusion of the geneva agreement or to the conclusion of the bilateral agreements which have been concluded since then. we all recognize not only its importance but also its inevitability. but we also know that in these agreements there are winners and losers. and in these agreements, in particular, the outermost regions are clearly defeated and harmed. what i cannot accept is that, as the commission has done again today, it insists on the argument that the 2006 revision of the posei already foresaw this situation and that therefore, in this measure, it has already compensated the producers in the case in question, when we know that what was taken into account in 2006 was a tariff of 176 euros per tonne and now we are dealing with a tariff of 148, 114 or even 75 euros per tonne. what we are asking for is compensatory measures.
by opening, or rather opening the doors of the european market to american multinationals, which already control more than 80% of the world banana trade, this agreement will have serious consequences that even those who are going to approve it here will not hide. european producers in portugal, spain, greece, cyprus and france, which in 2008 were responsible for supplying almost 600,000 tonnes to the european market, will be hit hard. the rapporteur herself admits that the agreement threatens her future existence. in this context, beyond the substance of the agreement, it is very serious that the commission, while acknowledging the impacts, does not envisage any specific support measures for european producers, in particular through amendments to the posei regulation and budget adopted in 2006. the acp producers, who were not included in the discussions on this agreement, will also be severely affected by its consequences and the measures announced will not prevent these consequences. whoever approves this agreement must take responsibility for its consequences and it is no use coming here to express petty and inconsequential concerns in the form of questions or requests to the commission and the council.
in writing. the conclusion of these agreements will put an end to one of the most complex and protracted disputes against the eu in the wto. it should be noted that throughout the negotiating process we have warned the commission of the need to exercise caution: - the interests and specificities of the banana producers in the octs, in particular by increasing posei funds, since producers' incomes and the outflow of production may be affected by the pressures created by the increasing liberalization of global banana trade. - the interests and specificities of acp banana producers. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against fraud is a very good one. - the submission to the ep as soon as possible of an impact assessment on the consequences of the agreements for banana-producing developing countries and the outermost regions; implementation of specific initiatives to strengthen the commercial position of banana producers adoption of measures to finance the programme for the banana-producing acp countries
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, the incidence of tuberculosis worldwide continues to be a major concern despite the progress made. due to the rise of resistance to this disease and insufficient scientific research, about two million people die each year today. in this resolution we welcome the eu's initiatives to combat tuberculosis, but we call for the development of further scientific research to develop new forms of vaccine against this disease. vaccines are the most effective public health measure to protect citizens from infectious diseases, but it is important that healthcare reaches developing countries too, in order to contribute to increasing life expectancy and fighting poverty. as i said, there has been some progress and we are on the right track, but there is a need for renewed eu commitment and for greater concerted action and integration of european research to combat poverty-related diseases. only in this way will we be able to reduce the dramatic situation in many developing countries. i would like to ask the commission how it intends to follow up scientific research efforts in this area, step up these efforts and translate the results of this research to the benefit of the populations in the light of the europe 2020 strategy?
with four years to go before the deadline for achieving the millennium development goals, tuberculosis is claiming two million lives a year. tuberculosis is a striking example of the inequalities that are rampant in this world. let us not forget that this is a disease of very low prevalence in industrialized countries. the problem of tuberculosis, like other diseases, cannot be solved without quality public health services accessible to the whole population, including primary health care. the development cooperation and aid policy has a key role to play here, which of course must involve support for vaccination programmes, but more is needed. it is necessary to break with mechanisms such as debt and debt service, which drain the resources of the third world and allow the maintenance of situations of backwardness, dependence, subjugation and misery.
i would like to convey here, as i promised at the citizens' forum organised by the european parliament last week, the cry of indignation raised by the various social organisations who were with us in the debates on the economic and financial crisis and the serious consequences of the increase in unemployment, social inequalities and poverty, despite the fact that 2010 has been declared the european year for combating poverty. it was requested that the activities and work of the european parliament reflect the indignation of the organisations involved in the fight against poverty, taking into account the social consequences of the crisis and the gravity and extent of poverty. among the many striking examples of exploitation, poverty, discrimination and social exclusion, of the various proposals, demands and suggestions, i would like to highlight those relating to the role of the european parliament in denouncing the situation, in particular by setting up a working party to monitor the consequences of the crisis in the social field and the measures taken by the council and the commission in response to the decisions of the european parliament, such as those relating to the minimum income... (the president cut the speaker off)
mubarak to the street now! the resistance fighters in tahrir square keep shouting, and i shout with them. the demonstrations in egypt, tunisia and other arab countries with millions of citizens bravely taking to the streets to end decades of oppression and corruption show that human rights and democracy are universal aspirations and how the shudders of history are all those who invoke stability to sustain dictatorships. the instrument for democracy and human rights is a european union tool that can and should be used, without the consent of governments, to support human rights defenders, those who promote gender equality, the rule of law, free elections and democracy. it must therefore be strengthened financially, it must be made more flexible to meet emergencies and it must be better linked with geographical instruments in promoting the same objectives. it needs to be under proper parliamentary scrutiny. that is why this parliament insists on the delegated act procedure.
we are discussing a number of packages on financial instruments, such as the report by charles goerens on a financial instrument for development cooperation, the report by my colleague helmut scholz and others. these are reports which, for the most part, are aimed at concrete measures which could improve the lives of millions of people, i.e. legislative practice at its best. however, the council is adamant that it will not complete the codecision which these instruments imply. this is where the codecision procedure becomes a codecision procedure, by virtue of a tacit veto by the council, which nothing in the reading of the treaty justifies, and which is only based on a whimsical disgust and an exoteric reading of article 290 of the treaty of lisbon which describes delegated acts. this puts people's lives at risk. in the case of the refugee resettlement policy, for example, it has prevented us from giving extra money to resettlement countries and from closing refugee camps, which means that if the council insists on continuing this whim, there are lives of concrete people who are being harmed and it is time that this stopped and that delegated acts saw their normal development in the codecision process.
in writing. - considering that the exercise of political activity as a member of the european parliament is at issue, as acknowledged in the application submitted to the competent hungarian judicial authority, i voted in favour of the conclusions of this report, which recommends the refusal of the waiver of immunity. it is a question of ensuring compliance with european legislation and defending the exercise of political rights, since we are facing an accusation of a crime of opinion on public matters. it is also acknowledged that mr tamás deutsch has in no way interfered with the publicity or origin of these facts, so that he is not involved in the process of determining the truth or falsity of these facts.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. the member is accused of defamation, allegedly committed as a result of statements made about the complainant, a hungarian citizen, during a radio broadcast on 25 march 2010, to which he was invited as a politician and member of the european parliament. it is therefore established that the opinions were issued in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, and i am therefore not in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of tamás deutsch following a criminal case in which he is accused of defamation under the hungarian criminal code. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has taken a position on the matter and unanimously adopted a report in which it decided not to waive parliamentary immunity. in fact, it was considered that mr deutsch was in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament when he made the statements which gave rise to the criminal proceedings. the attempt to prevent members of the european parliament from expressing their views on matters of public interest by instituting legal proceedings is not acceptable in a democratic society. i voted in favour of defending the freedom of expression of members in the exercise of their duties and defending the interest of the european parliament as an institution. i would add, however, that i believe that political leaders in general, including members of parliament, should always speak truthfully and use language that is respectful of those they are speaking to, which is not always the case.
in writing. - i agree that the position on delegated acts at second reading should be adopted and reiterated. in the absence of any alternative proposal from the co-legislator and in view of the need to act swiftly in the interests of beneficiaries, i believe that the ep should confirm its position at first reading on the appropriate procedure for the purposes of democratic control and the application of delegated acts, without entering at this stage into a new debate on individual amendments. at the same time, i agree that the council should react as quickly as possible to the ep's position at second reading so that a solution can be found and all funds can be released.
in writing. - i welcome the eu's commitment to support the acp group in its efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social development. by integrating the trade dimension into development strategies and promoting international trade, the eu makes a strong contribution to reducing and eradicating poverty in these countries. it is important to promote the economic diversification of regions and to strengthen their competitiveness, taking into account the adaptation policies and strategies of the countries and their regional environment. it is essential to support the adjustment process of the acp countries following the liberalisation of the union market in the wto. i call for eu assistance to focus on improving the living standards and conditions of the population and, where relevant, of small entities, in particular by respecting labour, safety and environmental standards.
in writing. − by supporting this legislative recommendation for second reading, i want to ensure that the legislative role that the treaty of lisbon gives to the european parliament is not devalued by the council's intransigence. the council's refusal to give parliament the appropriate role in the operation of the financial instruments under article 290 tfeu does not seem to me legitimate. the iron fist which the council insists on maintaining by not applying the solution of delegated acts is blocking several important legislative processes. parliament must be informed in a responsible manner so that it can also decide in a responsible manner and in the case of delegated acts it must retain its powers to revoke that delegation. to give a blank check to the other institutions by excluding parliament is to take away the oversight of this institution in the allocation of resources and sectoral priorities in development cooperation.
in writing. - the european union, despite the crisis it is experiencing and the internal problems affecting its peoples, must not neglect the support it gives to developing countries and allow them to descend into dramatic situations of extreme hunger and poverty. some of these countries are heavily dependent on the production of one or a few products, often agricultural, and are therefore particularly exposed to market fluctuations. this is the case of bananas, which are one of the main sources of income for many countries. i hope that the financial instrument will be able to support the necessary adjustment resulting from the reduction of tariff preferences for the producing countries.
in writing. - the present legislative resolution, which is a proposal for a regulatory amendment to the icd and aims to support banana exporting countries, has raised formal problems among the co-legislators with regard to strategic programming documents to support this sector. according to the proposals submitted at first reading, the procedures for delegated acts should be set out in the icd regulation as it emerges from the lisbon treaty. it is essential that the european parliament's powers to monitor the applicability of strategic decisions on development aid be preserved. in fact, and in the light of the lisbon treaty, i agree that this control should be carried out on an equal footing with the council, which would contribute to greater co-responsibility between the european institutions and to mitigate any lack of democracy in the eu decision-making process.
in writing. - the question of delegated acts has dominated the debate on the development cooperation financing instrument, as indeed it has for other financial instruments. in this case, there have been legitimate concerns, which we share, about a possible delay in the transfer of funds provided for in the accompanying measures for the banana sector, due to the ongoing dispute between parliament and the council. without diminishing the importance of this discussion, it would be good, however, to also look at the substantive issues arising from the agreement on the liberalization of trade in bananas signed by the european union. it should be recalled that the acp countries, which will be significantly affected by this agreement and which were not properly involved in its discussion, estimated the amount of aid needed to maintain their banana sector at eur 500 million. the commission's proposed amount of eur 190 million is thus far below the estimated impact of this agreement. in africa alone, there are about 500,000 people whose livelihoods depend on the banana sector - considered a pole of sustainable development that has made it possible to install health, water, energy and housing infrastructure. this is also what free trade, to which this agreement opens the door, is now going to call into question.
in writing. - the eu has always been concerned with helping developing countries, particularly the acp countries. the purpose of this draft legislation is to create a financial instrument to help protect acp countries affected by the reduction of tariff preferences. by helping the banana sector in these countries we are helping them to develop their economies, create jobs and fight poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation at second reading. the aim of these amendments is to support the main african, caribbean and pacific (acp) banana exporting countries through accompanying measures for the banana sector, with a planned duration of four years (2010-2013). according to the report drawn up by the committee on development, the european parliament put a number of questions at an early stage in the preparation of the commission proposal, which allowed its concerns, in particular to ensure that the accompanying measures for the banana sector are geared to development and poverty eradication, to be taken into account in the final proposal. these and other concerns, which were clearly stated in the final text, such as environmental, health and labour standards, together with the fulfilment of specific criteria for the allocation of funds, led me to vote in favour.
in writing. − the main acp banana exporting countries may face difficulties as a result of the liberalisation of customs duties applied under the most-favoured-nation (mfn) treatment in the wto and bilateral and regional agreements concluded or in the process of being concluded between the union and certain latin american countries. under this proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 of the european parliament and of the council, the main acp banana exporting countries will benefit from banana sector accompanying measures designed to support their process of adjustment to this new import regime. with regard specifically to this recommendation for second reading, what is at issue is the application to the financing instrument for cooperation for the development of the procedure for delegated acts (article 290 tfeu), which would also respect the strategic programming documents related to the accompanying measures for the banana sector. i voted in favour because i agree that as a co-legislator parliament should be able to control, on an equal footing with the council, the adoption of strategic decisions on where and how development aid is spent.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation amending the development cooperation instrument aims to support the main african, caribbean and pacific (acp) banana exporting countries through accompanying measures for the banana sector. the initiative follows the reduction in preferential tariffs for acp banana exports agreed by the european union. the world trade organisation framework makes it necessary to reduce the tariffs on products imported into the european union. the plan is to run for four years, from 2010 to 2013, and according to the document, the measures should be guided by the objectives of development and poverty eradication, taking into account environmental, health and labour standards, and the specific criteria for the allocation of funds should be formulated. i support the initiative based on the concern to contribute and cooperate to the development of the acp countries by adding a programme of accompanying measures for the banana sector. i look forward to seeing how the situation of the outermost regions producing in this sector will be affected and taken into account subsequently as a result of the change in the trading conditions between the two parties.
in writing. − given that the new framework for planning and implementing assistance activities established in 2006 to make community assistance more effective and transparent has shown some inconsistencies in its implementation, in particular with regard to exceptions to the principle of non-eligibility of the union to finance costs related to tariffs, fees and other charges, i support the adoption of a second reading of regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 which would give greater legitimacy to the other institutions (ep and council) in the adoption of strategic documents by the commission under delegated acts.
in writing. − the eu finances many projects in developing countries with the aim of promoting development cooperation, democracy and human rights. it is essential to ensure the right of parliament to scrutinise eu funding of these projects. as a co-legislator, the ep should be able to control the adoption of strategic decisions on where and how aid is spent, ensuring that development and human rights are taken into account.
in writing. - the commission and the council have opposed the application of article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide, as well as to all strategy papers and multiannual indicative programmes. like the resolution adopted today on the mitchell report, this resolution also takes on the need to carry out a highly technical clarification of the same nature, seeking to ensure the position of the european parliament in the legislative process and in the control and monitoring of commission acts.
in writing. - in defence of compliance with and respect for the lisbon treaty, i am voting in favour of a clear position of the european parliament in asserting its powers and responsibilities, with an active role in promoting european union policies capable of ensuring effective support for democracy, freedom and respect for human rights in the world. in this respect, it is crucial that the european parliament is in a position to effectively assess and ensure that this instrument is being used correctly in support of people and institutions who, in very adverse situations, are working in their countries to counter oppressive regimes or tendencies, promoting the development of democratic structures, freedom of the press and of opinion, the fight against corruption and other problems that call into question the full respect for human rights and that are at the root of crises such as those now occurring in the maghreb countries.
in writing. - we have reached a second reading with amendments which are nothing more than an iron fist between the ep, the commission and the council, a power struggle resulting from the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the aim is to control an instrument which claims to promote democracy and human rights worldwide but which in practice has itself been an attack on democracy. the eu has used this instrument to legitimize the power that has been wielded by the coup d'état that deposed the legitimately elected president and the violations of the constitution in honduras. legitimate power is associated with the brutal increase in murders, particularly of members of the resistance front against the coup, of journalists and their families, and with the occupation and expulsion of peasants from their lands. we also see the contradiction in the signature by the authorities, who are in fact the result of the coup d'état in honduras, of a so-called eu-central america association agreement, which includes a clause that obliges respect for human rights and democracy. what is becoming increasingly evident is the hypocritical way in which the eu uses its supposed concern for human rights: meddling to promote the agents who are willing to defend the interests of the big capital of the eu.
in writing. − the problems revealed by the implementation of these regulations lead to inconsistencies in the exception to the principle of ineligibility of costs relating to taxes, duties or other charges for union financing. it is therefore proposed that the relevant provisions of regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 be amended in order to harmonise them with those of the other instruments, so that they can play their part in helping to fight for human rights worldwide.
in writing. − in 2006 a regulatory framework for the planning and implementation of assistance activities was established with the aim of making the community's external aid more effective and transparent. the results of its effective implementation have shown, according to the reports submitted to the european parliament, deep inconsistencies with regard to the exception to the principle of ineligibility of costs relating to taxes, duties or other charges for union financing. in this context, it is appropriate to amend certain provisions of regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 in order to harmonise them with the provisions of the other instruments belonging to that framework. the amendments do not go beyond the objectives set out in the treaty on european union and contribute to the need for clarification of the regulation, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - with regard to this recommendation for second reading, the issue at stake is the application of the delegated act procedure (article 290 tfeu) to the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights. i voted in favour because i agree that parliament, as a co-legislator, should be able to monitor, on an equal footing with the council, the adoption of strategic decisions for the implementation of this instrument.
in writing. the ep should reconfirm its position at first reading without, at this stage, entering into individual amendments. given that no alternative procedure was proposed and that only some technical amendments of the ep were accepted and given that the council asks the ep to adopt, before the end of 2010, the council's common position without any negotiation, in order to jointly determine the most appropriate time to transmit its position, as required by article 20 of the agreement on good interinstitutional cooperation in the area of codecision, i approve this report so that the position of the ep is adopted and reiterated as soon as possible with regard to delegated acts at second reading.
in writing. − by supporting this legislative recommendation for second reading, i want to ensure that the legislative role that the treaty of lisbon gives to the european parliament is not devalued by the council's intransigence. the council's refusal to give parliament the appropriate role in the operation of the financial instruments under article 290 tfeu does not seem to me legitimate. the iron fist which the council insists on maintaining by not applying the solution of delegated acts is blocking several important legislative processes. parliament must be informed in a responsible manner so that it can also decide in a responsible manner and in the case of delegated acts it must retain its powers to revoke that delegation. to give a blank check to the other institutions by excluding parliament is to take away the oversight of this institution in the allocation of resources and sectoral priorities in development cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european parliament, as co-legislator, should be able to monitor, on an equal footing with the council, the adoption of strategic decisions on where and how development aid is spent, as provided for in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - the amendment in question is apparently technical and arises from the difference of interpretation between the council and the commission, on the one hand, and parliament, on the other, as regards the applicability of article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to multiannual indicative programmes. delegated acts (article 290 tfeu) give the two arms of the legislative authority the power to oppose commission proposals or to revoke the delegation. despite its apparent technical nature, it is rooted in the different interpretations of the scope of parliament's power of scrutiny over the commission's actions under the new treaty. the unanimous vote in committee confirms that this is the interpretation most consistent with the need to protect the democratic prerogatives of parliament in the control of strategic decisions on how to allocate development aid.
in writing. − in view of the adoption of the european parliament's recommendations for second reading on the development cooperation financing instrument, i agree with the need to amend regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 as a matter of urgency in order to avoid interinstitutional conflicts which do nothing to improve the image of the european institutions and only contribute to delaying the application of funds in their development cooperation processes.
in writing. - at this second reading, the debate was dominated by the possibility of delegating to the commission the adoption of non-legislative acts supplementing or amending non-essential elements of the legislative act, i.e. so-called delegated acts. the speeding up of certain kinds of procedures to ensure that the vital aid to developing countries reaches its recipients in due time is certainly a concern to be taken into account. so too is ensuring that the commission acts within the strict limits of the delegation given to it (which may, under the terms laid down, be revoked), without going beyond its powers, and ensuring that the powers of parliament and the council are thus duly safeguarded. but in the discussion on the financial instrument for development cooperation there is more at stake than the question of delegated acts. in concrete terms, this subject cannot fail to call for a reflection on a fundamental question: the printed guidelines for eu cooperation policy. we must therefore denounce the way in which the commission has tried to impose free trade agreements on developing countries, despite their many resistance, and which has even made part of aid conditional, explicitly or implicitly, on an unacceptable act of blackmail.
in writing. - the difference in interpretation of article 290 tfeu between the european parliament and the council leads me to support this legislative recommendation. we cannot forget the legislative role of the ep enshrined in the lisbon treaty and which seems to be forgotten by the council. this intransigence is blocking a number of legislative processes, which is not in the eu's interest. development cooperation with countries with so-called emerging economies is very important for the eu. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report a7-0006/2011 for the same reasons as i voted in favour of the previous report a7-0014/2011. in both cases, the issue is the full implementation of the lisbon treaty. the european parliament cannot and must not, at this time of legal transition, let go of the powers conferred on it by lisbon. in fact, the central aspect of the legislative recommendation proposed by the rapporteur in this case does not relate to the substance of the regulation on the instrument for cooperation and development. its main objective is to protect the democratic prerogatives of the european parliament as provided for in the treaty. as a co-legislator, parliament should be able to monitor, on an equal footing with the council, the adoption of strategic decisions on where and how development aid is spent. the rapporteur therefore considers that from a technical point of view a number of decisions, normally the responsibility of the commission for implementing the basic act, meet the criteria for being delegated acts (article 290 tfeu). this would give the two legislative chambers a real possibility of opposing certain draft decisions proposed by the commission or even of revoking the delegation.
in writing. - with regard to this recommendation for second reading, the issue at stake is the application of the procedure for delegated acts (article 290 tfeu) to the instrument for financing development cooperation. i voted in favour because i agree that as a co-legislator parliament should be able to control, on an equal footing with the council, the adoption of strategic decisions on where and how development aid is spent.
in writing. − the european commission has proposed a technical revision of the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) to increase flexibility, effectiveness in implementation and coherence with other financial mechanisms. the turmoil in many arab countries, particularly in tunisia and egypt, shows the need to support projects aimed at the promotion of democratic values and human rights. i therefore consider it extremely important that this financial mechanism should support civil society organisations, states and private individuals without the need for prior approval by the national governments themselves. the eidhr should be used only for initiatives promoting human rights and democracy, given the limited budget allocated to it. however, i would point out with displeasure the council's refusal to apply article 290 tfeu, which delegates to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act. the introduction of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny in the strategy papers and multiannual cooperation programmes under the emcdda would give the european parliament a strengthened power in this area, enshrined in the tfeu.
in writing. − since parliament and the council decide jointly on the objectives and content, and since the council adopted its position on 10 december 2010, but did not take into account the ep's amendments on the procedures for adopting programming documents and those on operation, i agree that the position adopted by the ep at first reading should be re-established, in order to ensure that the ep is treated on an equal footing with the council/member states and that the ipi programming structure recognises the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i believe it is essential that europe establishes strong relations with certain regional and global actors, supporting them and establishing strong political and economic links. i would like to mention in particular two countries with which portugal has strong historical and emotional ties, brazil and angola, two important global players in south america and africa respectively, which the eu should increasingly see as partners. given that the main general objective of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 is to eradicate poverty through the achievement of the millennium development goals, cooperation is essentially limited to the financing of measures aimed at meeting the criteria applicable to official development assistance (oda) as established. this often excludes other types of action which do not fall within the scope of oda but which are nevertheless essential in the context of the union's external policy. it is precisely to regulate such practices - which involve economic, commercial, academic, business and scientific agreements and exchanges - with developing countries that it is proposed to adopt this regulation, taking note of parliament's proposals.
in writing. - the european parliament has the duty and the obligation to defend the conditions necessary for the exercise of its powers and responsibilities under the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is well informed in order to ensure that this type of aid to developing countries, particularly in africa and latin america, is properly implemented. i would stress the importance of strategic investments in renewable energy, environmental protection policies, culture and small and mediumsized enterprises, and the importance of taking measures to avoid food and raw materials crises.
in writing. - the difference in interpretation of article 290 tfeu between the european parliament and the council leads me to support this legislative recommendation. we cannot forget the legislative role of the ep enshrined in the lisbon treaty and which seems to be forgotten by the council. this intransigence is blocking a number of legislative processes, which is not in the eu's interest. cooperation with industrialised countries is of great importance to the eu economy. hence my vote.
in writing. − since 2007, the community has been streamlining its geographical cooperation with developing countries in asia, central asia and latin america, as well as with iraq, iran, yemen and south africa, under regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 of 18 december 2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation. the main general objective of this regulation is to eradicate poverty by achieving the millennium development goals. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. that is why the proposed amendments were introduced. i emphasise the conferral of powers on the commission to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu. this amendment will allow the european parliament to be taken into account at all stages of the process, from negotiation to approval, and will give it greater democracy and legitimacy.
in writing. - with regard to this recommendation for second reading, the issue at stake is the application of the delegated act procedure (article 290 tfeu) to the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries. i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to ensure that parliament is treated on an equal footing with the council and that the programming structure of the financial instrument for cooperation with industrialized countries should be brought into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider that it contains recommendations to the commission and the council which are essential for a fair compensation for the negative impacts of the agreements concluded, in particular their effects on the outermost regions of europe.
in writing. - i welcome the approval of this agreement on banana trade, but i stress that we must safeguard the interests of all parties. producers in the acp countries, the eu and its outermost regions may be significantly affected. it is essential that the commission presents an impact assessment of this agreement. it is also important that the eu increases support to the main acp banana exporting countries, with aid aimed at improving competitiveness, economic diversity and mitigating the social consequences of adjustment.
in writing. − the agreement reached on 15 december 2009 between the union, a group of latin american countries and the united states on customs duties on bananas appears to have advantages, but does not fully reconcile the legitimate interests of all parties. it is therefore important to take certain actions aimed at better implementation of the agreements at various levels, in particular through an impact assessment for the banana-producing developing countries and the outermost regions of europe, to carry out an assessment of the mab 18 months before the end of the programme, to propose measures jointly with the acp countries to help the states heavily dependent on banana cultivation to diversify their economies, and to review and adjust the support package for eu domestic producers provided for in the posei budget, in particular the french overseas departments of guadeloupe and martinique, the azores, madeira and the canary islands. these and other measures of equal importance are highlighted in this resolution.
in writing. − the geneva agreement initialled on 15 december 2009 between the eu and the latin american banana producing countries has ended a long-standing dispute within the world trade organisation (wto). these negotiations, which are being conducted under the doha round, involve not only latin american countries but also african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the united states (which has committed to ending the wto dispute over the eu's banana import regime), with whom the eu has trade relations. the aim of this agreement is to introduce a gradual reduction in eu customs duties over seven years. i therefore welcome the negotiations conducted by the commission and hope that these agreements on banana trade - the geneva agreement and the eu/us agreement - will be signed as soon as possible. finally, i hope that these agreements will help to improve competitiveness and promote policies of economic diversification and help to raise the social, economic and environmental level of these developing countries, not forgetting, of course, the measures to support the eu's outermost banana-producing regions under posei.
in writing. - the amendments which we tabled and which the majority of parliament rejected summarise the reasons for our final vote against this resolution. the settlement of a dispute, in this case a commercial one, is not in itself a cause for rejoicing. it all depends, of course, on how the dispute was resolved, who won and who lost with the final solution, whether it was fair or not. that is what most of this parliament seems to ignore. the end of this dispute benefits the american multinationals in the sector, but hurts european and acp producers, especially small and medium-sized producers. the resolution acknowledges this, not without some hypocrisy, since those who propose it are the same people who approved the agreement that produces the negative effects that have been pointed out; the same people who now express petty concerns about these effects, but who made them viable by voting for them; the same people who demand an impact assessment of the agreement, but who do not wait for the results of this assessment to give it their endorsement; the same people who now call for respect for the ilo's decent work agenda, but who blindly tune in to the pace of the wto and turn a blind eye to complaints of human rights violations by american multinationals in latin american countries.
in writing. - i must welcome the end of one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially important disputes the wto has ever faced. i also believe that this agreement is not perfect and that it may cause some problems in the future. it therefore urges the commission to present as soon as possible an assessment of the impact of the bananas trade agreements on banana-producing developing countries and the outermost regions of europe in the period up to 2020, so that we can take stock of the difficulties of these countries and act accordingly, and if necessary adjust and strengthen the posei programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider that it contains important recommendations to the commission and the council in the context of fair compensation for the negative externalities of the agreements concluded, especially as regards the outermost regions of europe. the agreement reached does not fully reconcile the legitimate interests of all the parties and it is therefore important to take certain actions aimed at a better implementation of the agreements at various levels, in particular through an impact assessment for developing banana producing countries and for the outermost regions of europe. it would therefore be important to review and adjust the support package for internal eu producers provided for in the posei budget, namely the french overseas departments of guadeloupe and martinique, the azores, madeira and the canary islands.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which, following the agreement reached on 15 december 2009 between the eu, a group of latin american countries and the us on customs duties on imported bananas, draws attention to the need to assess the impact of these duties on developing producer countries and the outermost regions of europe and to provide adequate support to acp and eu producers so that they can adapt to the new reality of the international market.
in writing. − under the agreement with latin american countries, the eu will gradually reduce the banana export duties from the current 176eur/tonne to a final value of 114eur/tonne by 2017. the aim is a more predictable and stable global banana market, with more investment and growth in the sector, ending a decades-long conflict based on complaints against the eu when it introduced changes to banana customs duties in 2006. the question of eu relations with third countries in the banana sector also includes the treatment of acp countries through new accompanying measures. it remains to be seen what measures will be taken to take due account of the interests of producers in the outermost regions, which are allegedly already compensated in the posei budget. given that the last revision of posei was made in 2006, it is not acceptable to argue that these changes in the framework of trade relations in the sector have already been taken into account. compensatory measures are urgently needed in the forthcoming revision of the regulation to ensure that european banana producers in the outermost regions have the means to minimise the impact of the liberalisation of the sector.
in writing. - while agreeing with the rapporteur's position on the need for the commission and the council to commit themselves to an impact assessment of the consequences of the agreements for the outermost regions and developing countries, i disagree with the way in which the process was carried out without impact assessments having been carried out beforehand, when it was known that production relevant to some territories of the european union, such as the outermost regions, was at stake. i therefore protest and abstain from voting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the banana trade agreements because i believe that the conclusion of these agreements will put an end to disputes within the wto and contribute to the stability of the world banana market. i do, however, believe that it is necessary to ensure that the interests and specificities of banana producers in the outermost regions are respected, in particular by increasing posei funds.
in writing. - the banana sector is the fourth largest market in the world and only a limited number of producing countries are involved. only 20% of total production is destined for international trade. on 15 december 2009, the union, a group of latin american countries and the united states reached an agreement on customs duties on imports of bananas. it closed a wto dispute centred on european discrimination against latin american producer countries vis-à-vis acps, and required a review of union policies and a gradual reduction from the current eur 176 per tonne to the final value of eur 114 per tonne by 2017. there will therefore be a loss of competitiveness of the acp countries which, despite the exemption from customs duties they enjoy, could lead to a negative economic and social impact. the agreement appears to have some advantages, but it is important to present an impact assessment of the acp countries' ability to react to market changes.
in writing. - the conclusion of a geneva agreement on trade in bananas between the eu and certain latin american countries and another agreement on trade in bananas between the eu and the united states of america. i voted in favour of this resolution not only because it asks the commission to clarify whether the financing agreement provides for an increase in the current amounts for development, but above all because it gives special attention to european producers in this agricultural sector which is located in the outermost regions of europe, such as madeira, where unemployment rates are quite high, thus contributing to the increase in social and economic cohesion. i therefore hope that the amounts allocated to posei will be increased so that european banana farmers can withstand the competition created by the increasing liberalization of this sector as a result of the new agreements.
in writing. - as the banana sector is the fourth most important worldwide, after rice, wheat and maize, i have to congratulate myself on the end of one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially important disputes the wto has ever faced. i also believe that this agreement is not perfect and that it may cause some problems in the future, and i therefore urge the commission to present as soon as possible an assessment of the impact of the agreements on banana trade on the banana-producing developing countries and the outermost regions of europe in the period up to 2020, so that we can take stock of the difficulties of these countries and act accordingly and, if necessary, adjust and strengthen the posei programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on banana trade agreements, because they would put an end to disputes in the wto and contribute to the stability of the world banana market. i believe, however, that it is necessary to ensure that the interests and specificities of banana producers in the outermost regions are respected, in particular by increasing posei funds. the situation in the european union is very particular, as banana cultivation represents the fourth largest market worldwide with a limited number of producing countries. only 20% of total production is destined for international trade.
in writing. − on 15 december 2009, the eu, a group of latin american countries and the us reached an agreement on customs duties for banana imports, ending a long-running dispute over the preferential treatment given by the eu to acp bananas over bananas from latin america. under this agreement, the eu will have to gradually reduce customs duties on imports of bananas from latin america from the current 176 eur/tonne to 114 eur/tonne by 2017, which will naturally have a negative impact on the banana-producing acp countries and the eu's outermost regions. the impact of the agreement should therefore be carefully assessed and appropriate measures adopted to support producers in the acp countries and the eu's outermost regions. in this respect, in addition to the additional aid provided for the main acp banana exporting countries - the so-called banana sector accompanying measures (bams) - it is essential that adjustments are made to the package of support for eu domestic producers provided for in the posei budget in order to help them adapt to the effects of changes in the world banana market.
in writing. - having regard to the positions expressed in previous explanations of vote and disagreeing with the way in which the procedure was carried out, without any impact assessment having been carried out beforehand, when it was known that production relevant to certain territories of the european union, such as the outermost regions, was at stake, i abstain from this vote in protest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on customs duties on bananas, which aims to implement the new duties provided for in the geneva agreement, the conclusion of which should contribute to the stability and predictability of the world banana market.
in writing. − on 15 december 2009, the union, a group of latin american countries and the united states reached an agreement on customs duties on bananas. it closed a wto dispute centred on european discrimination against latin american producer countries vis-à-vis acps, and required a review of union policies and a gradual reduction from the current eur 176 per tonne to the final value of eur 114 per tonne by 2017. following the adoption of the geneva agreement on trade in bananas, it will be essential to make the necessary legislative amendments and corrections to ensure its effective implementation. in this regard, the current council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 on the customs duties applicable to bananas, which provides for a duty of eur 176 per tonne, should be repealed.
in writing. − the customs duties applicable to trade in bananas were provided for in council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005. following the recent negotiations between the eu and banana-producing countries, which have given rise to new agreements - notably the geneva agreement - and ended with long-running conflicts within the wto, it is imperative to abolish the said regulation. so, although it was not possible to reach a full consensus, i welcome this further progress in order for the eu's final commitment on this matter to be included in the next round of negotiations and i express my full agreement with the repeal of the customs duty provided for in council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 of 29 november.
in writing. - this agreement illustrates the power of multinationals and the role of the wto as a forum for defending their interests. it also reveals to us, once again, how the european union is also acting as an instrument serving the interests of transnational monopolies. the agreement will further increase the market share of american multinationals, which already control more than 80% of the world banana trade - interests which the commission has taken it upon itself to reassure with this agreement. it is these multinationals that are facing accusations and denunciations of human rights violations, of expropriation of land from indigenous populations and of the promotion of conditions of work close to slavery. all to promote environmentally unsustainable models of intensive production. on the other hand, the agreement - as the rapporteur herself admits - will put the survival of thousands of small and mediumsized producers, both in the acp countries and in european countries, at risk. the small and mediumsized producers, social and labour rights and environmental protection continue to be sacrificed on the altar of free trade, reduced to mere verbs in official discourse, trampled on in practice every day, as we have seen once again.
in writing. - i must welcome the end of one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially important disputes the wto has ever faced. with the approval of this new agreement we have to adapt council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005. it has to be repealed in order to comply with the agreement leading to the reduction of customs duties and providing for a reduction from the current eur 176/tonne to eur 114/tonne by the end of 2017.
in writing. - i voted in favour of report a7-0003/2011, but i believe that an impact assessment should be presented on the consequences for the outermost regions, given that in many of these regions banana production is essential for the local economy. as the posei regulation is currently being revised, the commission should examine the possibilities of mitigating the negative externalities produced by this agreement in the regions mentioned. the geneva agreement on trade in bananas between the eu and latin american countries such as brazil, colombia, costa rica, ecuador, guatemala, honduras, mexico, nicaragua, panama, peru and venezuela resulted in a reduction of customs duties on imported bananas until 2017. european internal legislation will have to be adapted as a result of the repeal of regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 on the customs duties applicable to bananas. the final outcome of the agreement, namely the gradual liberalisation of the sector and the opening of the european market to banana imports, will inevitably have negative consequences for european domestic production in the sector, which must be taken into account.
in writing. − on 31 may 2010, the geneva agreement on trade in bananas was signed between the european union and brazil, colombia, costa rica, ecuador, guatemala, honduras, mexico, nicaragua, panama, peru and venezuela, providing for the gradual reduction of customs duties on imports of bananas from these countries. a first cut, applied retroactively from 15 december 2009, the date of entry into force of the agreement, reduced the duty to eur 148 per tonne. subsequent cuts will be applied over seven years, with a possible maximum delay of two years if the wto doha round agreement on agricultural product modalities is delayed. the final customs duty of eur 114/tonne should be reached by 1 january 2019 at the latest. therefore, following the conclusion of this agreement, it is now necessary to repeal council regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 of 29 november 2005 fixing the mfn customs duty applied by the eu to imports of bananas at eur 176 per tonne.
in writing. − the conclusion at international level of a geneva agreement on trade in bananas between the eu and latin american countries such as brazil, colombia, costa rica, ecuador, guatemala, honduras, mexico, nicaragua, panama, peru and venezuela aims to progressively reduce customs duties on imported bananas by 2017. it is therefore necessary to adapt european internal legislation to the terms of this agreement. this means that we are voting today to repeal regulation (ec) no 1964/2005 on the customs duties applicable to bananas. the conditions of this agreement, in particular the progressive liberalization of the sector and the opening of the european market to banana imports, will inevitably have consequences for european domestic production in the sector. it is urgent that the european commission should present an impact assessment on the consequences for the outermost regions, such as madeira, where i come from. the banana production is essential to the economy of several of the outermost regions, whose status, enshrined in the lisbon treaty, requires, in my view, that future adjustments be made to the posei programme.
in writing. - i approve this report as it takes account of the current need to integrate and increase the functionality and effectiveness of the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment. despite the positive figures, which show that about 85% of this type of waste is collected, it is nevertheless found that, if we compare the quantity collected with the number of equipment placed on the market, we find that 65% of the equipment sold is collected again and that a large part of this data is not reported to the authorities or treated appropriately. i also support the idea that the implementation of the directive could increase the rate of waste treated and released, particularly as regards the collection rate, responsibility for achieving the collection objective and consumer responsibility. the implementation of the directive will provide clearer rules on collection, treatment and recycling standards, with clearer indications on the costs resulting from collection and treatment.
in writing. − prevention of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee), and its reuse and recycling are fundamental to sustainable production and consumption. it is essential to reduce the amount of waste to be disposed of and to contribute to the efficient use of resources. i call for better environmental performance by all operators involved in the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, namely producers, distributors and consumers, and in particular by operators directly involved in the collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment. in order to achieve the desired level of protection of human health and the environment, separate collection is a precondition for ensuring specific treatment and recycling of weee. i call on consumers to contribute actively to the success of this collection. to this end, appropriate facilities for the delivery of weee, including public collection centres, where individuals can deliver such waste at least free of charge, should be established.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment because it contains proposals which should help to reduce administrative burdens and strengthen the protection of the environment and human health by preventing or reducing the adverse impacts of the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment, with benefits for society.
in writing. − waste electrical and electronic equipment has grown exponentially across the union and its treatment and conversion is now a particularly important problem in the european context. in addition to the environmental and public health issues, which are in themselves of concern, the non-reuse of raw materials leads to inefficiency and an additional cost to the production system, which could be offset by improving the use of the materials in the equipment in question. i hope that the european union will make increasingly rational use of electronic and electrical machinery and equipment and that it will be able to reuse them in an environmentally safe and socially responsible way.
in writing. − the establishment of clear rules and objectives for the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment is absolutely key to the sustainable consolidation of the internal market and to better environmental quality in the european union, as well as to the recovery of strategic raw materials. it is essential that we know how to make better use of the resources available, especially in the face of the recognized scarcity of raw materials, and to value the wealth or added value that waste represents for our economy. given the discrepancies within the eu in the collection of weee from 16 kg per capita per year to 1 kg , i stress the need to ensure a greater effort of harmonisation, with a minimum of 4 kg per capita already in 2012 being perfectly reasonable. in a developed europe, it is important to meet the target of 85% of electrical and electronic equipment being collected by 2016 (as proposed by me in the committee on the environment, which was approved) and recycled between 50 and 75% of this equipment. i would also like to recall the proposal i made, which was approved in committee, for member states to submit data on the amount of resps generated each year.
in writing. - waste streams of electrical and electronic equipment have been increasing in the european union. in view of this, an amendment to the 2002 directive, which is still in force, is proposed. the collection and treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment is important and necessary, taking into account not only the potential consequences for the environment and public health of this waste, but also the loss of secondary raw materials if not carried out, which is a serious problem. some 85% of waste electrical and electronic equipment produced is already collected in the eu. however, there are illegal shipments of this waste outside the eu, which reinforces the important role of member states in the control and supervision of collection and treatment. the proposal for a directive provides for a number of possible approaches for member states, ranging from restricting the circle of those who are authorised to collect waste equipment, to increasing the number of collection points, to requiring producers to set up incentive schemes for the delivery of waste equipment by consumers. in any case, the aim is greater recycling and greater reuse. for these reasons we have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - economic growth and the constant technological evolution of electrical and electronic equipment have brought a major problem, namely the treatment of its waste. this situation raises a number of problems, including environmental, public health and economic problems, which are now aggravated by the crisis the world is going through and which is reflected in the cost of treating this waste. we must therefore find ways of dealing with waste that do not, at the same time, impede the necessary sustained growth of the eu economies.
in writing. - i voted in favour, bearing in mind that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question does not contain substantive amendments other than those identified as such and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts together with the amendments introduced, the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing acts without any substantive changes. i support the european parliament's request to the commission to submit this proposal again to the european parliament if it intends to substantially amend it or replace it with another text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive recasting directive 2002/96/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 27 january 2003 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). weee is the fastest growing waste stream in the eu and it is essential to promote increased collection and proper treatment of waste. the serious consequences of inappropriate disposal of weee in terms of damage to the environment and public health and loss of raw materials should be avoided. the amendments now proposed are therefore welcome, and they aim precisely to create a higher separate collection rate, reduce the loss of waste equipment in the weee system, prevent illegal shipments and ensure a high level of treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in tunisia, expressing my full solidarity with the tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and by the desire to improve social conditions and access to employment, have brought their country to a historic political turning point. i also believe that the end of the authoritarian regime in tunisia can contribute to a stable democracy and to the affirmation of the same aspirations for other peoples. in this respect, i support the democratic process and stress the importance of creating conditions conducive to elections, so that all opposition forces and all the media can be organised at national level and so that the new parliamentary assembly responsible for drawing up a democratic constitution respects the balance between the executive and legislative powers and the independence of the judiciary.
in writing. - i would like to express my solidarity with the tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and by the improvement of social conditions and access to employment, have brought their country to a historic political turning point. i welcome the courage and determination shown during the demonstrations and i regret the way in which the peaceful protest movement was violently suppressed, causing more than a hundred victims. i would like to express my condolences to the families of the victims and my sympathy to those who were injured.
in writing. - i believe that europe cannot remain indifferent to the strength of the intense popular protest movement that is taking place in several countries in north africa/middle east. i said in the plenary, in the debate on this resolution, that i really think we are living in a rare moment in history, one of those who change their course and build new realities. but europe as a whole, and not just some leaders together or in isolation, needs to take a political leadership role in helping these reforms to find a new paradigm for this region, one without radicalism, with respect for human rights, with security, democracy, dignity and tolerance. i know nothing will ever be the same again. i would like to express my solidarity with the peoples of north africa and the middle east who are fighting for their rights, as i have done in the recent past with the peoples of eastern europe. and because i know that radical islam has emerged as a political rather than a religious response to these problems, fueled and as a response to social exclusion, i hope that these people will prove in the near future that in this region, regardless of religious affiliation, political choice and ethnicity, all can coexist in peace and with mutual respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses solidarity with the tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and the improvement of living conditions, have led their country to a historic political turn. the eu cannot shirk its responsibilities and the high representative should therefore promote the setting up of a working group, with the participation of the european parliament, to assess the needs for monitoring the democratic transition process, in particular with regard to the preparation of free and democratic elections.
in writing. - the current situation in the middle east has demonstrated how little we know about the arab street. what those who demonstrated in tunis and cairo think and what they really feel and want. global television networks like cnn and al-jazeera and social media point to the first steps of a global civil society capable of following events like those in tunisia and egypt in real time. for a long time the west has preferred a policy of containment in fear of islamist extremism rather than seeking partners who share the same ideals and advocate societies politically structured under democracy, freedom and the rule of law. he did so because these allegedly would not exist. apparently, that's not strictly accurate. it remains to be seen how much weight they will have and how much they will be able to mobilize their countries to do so. the european union must therefore be cautious, closely monitor developments and provide european aid to democrats who reject secular militarism and religious fundamentalism.
in writing. - the democratic values of freedom and the right to self-determination must be respected by all peoples. i therefore cannot but welcome the adoption of this resolution on the political situation in tunisia, in which this parliament expresses its solidarity with the tunisian people. despite the repression and the use of force by the security forces, the tunisians have succeeded in putting an end to the dictatorial regime of president ben ali through their demonstrations. i cannot, however, fail to regret that the eu is not developing a more coherent and effective foreign policy towards some of its partners, so as to contribute to the end of totalitarian regimes which still persist, such as the one in force in tunisia.
in writing. - we signed a motion for a resolution by our group on the situation in tunisia, in which we welcomed the determination of the tunisian people to regain their freedom and put an end to the existing regime, and expressed our solidarity with all tunisian progressives and their people. in the resolution we also stressed the need, if the tunisian people so request, to provide the financial support necessary both to carry out the reforms already undertaken and to meet the economic and social needs of the tunisian people. but it is clear to us that interference in tunisia's internal affairs must be avoided. it is not for the european union to say who should or should not govern these countries. your people have awakened on their own and it is up to them to choose who they want to rule them. we must not impose anything on them.
in writing. - i welcome the demonstrations in tunisia which have led the tunisian people to regain their freedom and put an end to the regime established in 1987 by the now deposed president ben ali. it is now necessary to have full representation of all tunisian political, social, civic and democratic forces, because only this will be able to give the interim government the confidence of the population and the legitimacy indispensable for the preparation of the elections and the democratic transition. i also believe that we should look at ways of helping tunisia, including at the financial level, and at the support and assistance that european civil society can provide to tunisian civil society, in particular to human rights associations and the social partners.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in tunisia. i join the ep in expressing its solidarity with the tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and by the need to improve social conditions and access to employment, have brought their country to a historic political turning point. in this context, i commend the courage and determination shown by the tunisian people during the demonstrations and i join in condemning the repression and the disproportionate use of force by the security forces. i strongly support the necessary democratic process in tunisia, and i stress the importance of creating the conditions for elections, in a time frame which will allow all opposition forces and the media to organize at national level and to create the democratic basis for a new society. i welcome the ep's request to the commission and the eib to provide support for tunisia through loans with reduced interest rates, in order to give the tunisian economy the opportunity to diversify and to offer prospects of skilled employment to young tunisians, as part of a genuine development contract that favours local and foreign productive investment.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution and joined in the expression of solidarity with the tunisian people who, driven by legitimate democratic aspirations and by the improvement of social conditions and access to work, have brought their country to a historic political turning point. i hope that the conditions will now be created and that all support will be guaranteed so that tunisia can move forward with the reforms needed to implement a solid, tolerant and respectful democracy for minorities.
in writing. − we welcome the eu's initiatives to combat tuberculosis in the poorest countries, but call for more scientific research to develop new drugs and vaccines against this disease. vaccines are the most efficient and cheapest public health measure to protect citizens from infectious diseases, but it is important that health care reaches developing countries too, in order to contribute to increasing life expectancy and fighting poverty. as i said, progress has been made and we are on the right track, but there is a need for renewed eu commitment and for greater concerted action and integration of european research in the fight against poverty-related diseases. only in this way can we reduce the dramatic health situation in many developing countries. i would like to ask the commission how it intends to follow up scientific research efforts in this area, step up efforts and translate the results of this research to the benefit of the populations in the light of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the tuberculosis vaccination initiative because only a broad vaccination campaign can contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goal, which aims to halt the increase and reverse the trend in the incidence of tuberculosis by 2015 and to eliminate tuberculosis by 2050. it is urgent to explore innovative funding pathways that can strengthen health systems and tackle inequalities, in particular in maternal health and infant mortality.
in writing. − although tuberculosis is one of the diseases that has practically disappeared from the focus of health concerns in developed countries, the truth is that it remains today one of the leading causes of death in the world, as it kills close to 2 million people a year. especially in developing countries, this disease continues to be fatal in many cases, especially when associated with hiv/aids. it is therefore an example of the health inequalities between the industrialized world and the developing world. moreover, although tuberculosis continues to kill, research is being abandoned for the sake of commercial profitability. it is therefore important that europe invests in scientific research and supports the tbvii (tuberculosis vaccine initiative) as large-scale vaccination could have a positive effect on the elimination of tuberculosis by 2050. as we know, vaccines are an essential instrument, together with better, reliable and inexpensive infection tests, more effective diagnostics and treatments, which implies a major reorientation of research and increased and sustained funding, in which i believe the eu can play a key role.
in writing. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a joint resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) and the situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc). improving the health of the world's population is one of the eu's major concerns. although at european level we can say that tb is under control, in developing countries, in association with other infectious diseases, it continues to be the cause of death for millions of people. a concerted effort, political and financial, is essential to bring this world scourge to a speedy end. i therefore welcome the adoption of this initiative to eradicate a contagious disease which, in the 21st century, continues to claim many lives, especially in developing countries.
in writing. - efforts in the field of research and development of new drugs and effective vaccines against diseases such as tuberculosis, which continue to claim millions of lives worldwide every year, should be encouraged and positive results strongly welcomed. once these results have been obtained, it is important to make the new achievements of science and technology available to those who need them, without exclusion of any kind. the only criterion for access should therefore be that of necessity. in the third world, the payment of external debt and debt service to rich countries represents a major drain on resources which are not going to health and education budgets - reduced to almost insignificance. the so-called structural adjustment programmes imposed from outside also contribute to this. for this reason, the fight against diseases such as tuberculosis, which increase poverty, also involves combating these mechanisms which generate and sustain dependency and poverty. in this context, it is regrettable that the provision of the new tuberculosis vaccine to the least developed countries - which we obviously support - can be defended in the name of strengthening the eu's role and leadership in these countries, as is done in the question which gave rise to this resolution.
in writing. − although tb is virtually extinct in developed countries, it remains a threat in poor and underdeveloped countries, particularly in africa, where it continues to kill millions of people every year. only a global vaccination plan can end this scourge and achieve the total elimination of this disease by 2050 as part of the millennium development goals (mdgs).
in writing. - tuberculosis is one of the examples of the way in which inequality between peoples affects health, given that this disease is almost eliminated in industrialized countries, and is still prevalent in other parts of the world. it is also important to bear in mind that tuberculosis is one of the opportunistic infections in the case of hiv or aids, and is therefore particularly serious. these considerations have prompted this resolution, which advocates the need for a large-scale vaccination programme to boost the achievement of mdg6 beyond 2015 and, above all, to eliminate tuberculosis by 2050. it was also these meritorious objectives which determined my vote in favour. to achieve these objectives and decisively combat tuberculosis, vaccines are an essential tool, coupled with better, reliable and inexpensive infection detection tests, more effective diagnostics and treatments, which implies a major reorientation of research and increased and lasting funding. the eu, through the european commission, should explore innovative funding avenues, such as the application of a member state and/or eu financial guarantee to mobilise resources for the tbvi initiative from the eib and thus secure funding and research in this area.
in writing. − despite progress, the global incidence of tuberculosis remains a major concern, with tb remaining one of the leading causes of death worldwide, especially in developing countries. research and funding in this area should therefore be strengthened by mobilising resources for the tb vaccination initiative (tbvi), as only a large-scale vaccination campaign can contribute to halting the increase and reversing the trend of tb incidence by 2015 and to eliminating tb by 2050, as envisaged in the united nations millennium development goals and the who stop tb programme.
in writing. − concerns about the european police college's governance model led parliament to refuse to discharge its accounts for the year 2008. this is worrying and unprecedented, and the first time that a european agency has been refused such a procedure. this resolution therefore seeks only to close their accounts in accordance with rule 5 (2) (b) of annex vi to parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. - i would remind you that on 7 october 2010, parliament approved by 618 votes to none and 7 abstentions the decision not to discharge the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2008. this decision to close the accounts for 2008 does not constitute a grant of discharge, but is merely a technical measure resulting from parliament's rules, according to which if a discharge is not granted a formal proposal to close the accounts should be voted on at a later sitting. that is why i voted in favour of this decision.
in writing. - it is regrettable that a european institution which is financed by public funds does not have a transparent management model which allows the supervisory authority to discharge its accounts. as this is a new development, the causes must be examined and solutions found to prevent a recurrence. this resolution therefore seeks only to close their accounts in accordance with rule 5 (2) (b) of annex vi to parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. − the european police academy (epa) brings together senior police officers from across the european union with the aim of promoting crossborder cooperation in the fight against crime and maintaining public security, law and order. since 2005, this body has been an agency of the european union. the era operates as a network where activities courses, seminars, conferences and meetings are implemented in and by the member states, mainly in national training institutes. between 60 and 100 courses, seminars and conferences are organised annually covering a wide range of topics relevant to policing in europe. the activity of the epo is essential for the creation of synergies between the police forces of the different member states. it is also currently the main source of learning and development in the field of education and training for better police cooperation in europe. in view of the above and, in particular, in the light of the positive opinions of the court of auditors and the council, i am voting in favour of closing the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2008.
in writing. − following the decision of the european parliament of 7 october 2010 refusing discharge on account of the problems identified in the management of the european police college, the accounts for the financial year 2008 have now been closed in accordance with the provisions of article 5 (2) of annex vi to the rules of procedure.
in writing. - if there is one lesson we have learnt from the recent crisis, it is that we need to reform the institutional structure of supervision by creating european bodies and, with this, to reformulate the whole concept of macro- and micro-economic supervision. that is how the european banking authority comes into being. as confidence in banking has been severely shaken by the global financial crisis, it is urgent that markets and europeans in general regain confidence in the soundness and robustness of their banking institutions and, in particular, regain confidence in supervisors. that is why the role of this new european banking authority is so crucial for the future. that is why i am voting in favour of the choice of andrea enria as the first president of the european banking authority, and i am voting for an active, attentive and successful mandate.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. i understand that the creation of the european banking authority is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that situations of genuine immorality such as those seen in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not occur again. i therefore vote in favour of the choice of andrea enria as the first president of the european banking authority and wish him a very good mandate at all levels.
in writing. - one of the consequences of the crisis was the need to create autonomous european bodies for the supervision of banks and insurance companies in the financial markets. these bodies will not replace national supervisory bodies but will work with them in exercising their prudential and systemic risk analysis mandate in order to prevent a new crisis of the scale of the one we are facing from crashing down on european states again. today i am very proud to vote for the name of a portuguese man, gabriel rodrigo ribeiro tavares bernardino, as the first president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. his seriousness and technical qualities, which were demonstrated during a demanding selection process, indicated a watchful and active mandate in the supervisory authority which he will now chair. i wish you every success in the post you are now taking up.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has brought to light the major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation of the financial system, where several groups operate across borders, with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is therefore essential to achieve an effective supervisory model, along with many other control mechanisms, to be decided and implemented with real urgency. the appointment of a portuguese as the first president of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, gabriel rodrigo ribeiro tavares bernardino, naturally pleases me. i wish you the greatest happiness in the performance of these duties.
in writing. − in november 2010, the european parliament and the council adopted, at first reading, an ambitious set of legislative proposals to strengthen the supervision of financial markets in europe. these proposals provide for the creation of three new european supervisory authorities in the fields of insurance, securities and banking. the european parliament has a significant role in determining the leadership of these institutions, with the power to hear the presidents appointed by the national supervisors on the basis of a shortlist drawn up by the commission and the power to oppose the appointment. the applicants were heard by the econ committee, which gave a favourable opinion. on this basis, i voted in favour of the portuguese national proposed as president of eiopa, who, as stated, is subject to strict independence rules.
in writing. − as financial markets have been hit hard by the crisis, confidence needs to be restored as a matter of urgency, and this is largely due to the role of supervisory authorities, who will have to exercise their mandate competently and effectively in order to instill the necessary confidence in investors and businesses. it is in this context that the european securities and markets authority emerges. it is not intended to replace national supervisory authorities, but will have an important role to play in the new framework of european supervision. yes, that's why it's important that this entity gets up and running quickly. i am voting in favour of the choice of steven j. maijoor as the first chairman of the european securities and markets authority, and i hope for an active, attentive and successful mandate.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. there was therefore no cooperation, coordination or consistency in the application of union legislation. the creation of the european financial markets authority is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model. but many other steps will have to be taken so that situations of real immorality, such as those of the recent past, will not occur again. i therefore vote in favour of the choice of steven j. maijoor as the first president of the european securities and markets authority and wish him a high-quality mandate at all levels.
in writing. − in november 2010, the european parliament and the council adopted, at first reading, an ambitious set of legislative proposals to strengthen the supervision of financial markets in europe. these proposals provide for the creation of three new european supervisory authorities in the fields of insurance, securities and banking. the european parliament has a significant role in determining the leadership of these institutions, with the power to hear the presidents appointed by the national supervisors on the basis of a shortlist drawn up by the commission and the power to oppose the appointment. the applicants were heard by the econ committee, which gave a favourable opinion. on this basis, i voted in favour of the irish national proposed as the candidate for the post of chairman of esma, which, as stated, is subject to strict independence rules.
in writing. − in november 2010, the european parliament and the council adopted, at first reading, an ambitious set of legislative proposals to strengthen the supervision of financial markets in europe. these proposals provide for the creation of three new european supervisory authorities in the fields of insurance, securities and banking. the european parliament has a significant role in determining the leadership of these institutions, with the power to hear the presidents appointed by the national supervisors on the basis of a shortlist drawn up by the commission and the power to oppose the appointment. the applicants were heard by the econ committee, which gave a favourable opinion. on this basis, i voted in favour of the proposed dutch national candidate for president of the eba, who, as stated, is subject to strict independence rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the waste crisis in the province of campania because i believe that in the context of the waste management crisis it is essential to implement the derogation from regulations and controls, which includes, for example, the exemption from environmental impact studies and the non-application of public procurement legislation. i also believe that it is essential that compliance with eu waste legislation in campania and other regions of europe requires a very strong effort to reduce the volume of waste and to tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling through the provision of appropriate infrastructure, and that greater emphasis should be placed on the recovery of organic waste, especially in this heavily agricultural region.
in writing. - waste management has been a problem in many regions of italy, particularly in the province of campania. it is essential to ensure that waste is recovered or disposed of without endangering human health and without using processes or methods likely to harm the environment. a sustainable solution is urgently needed through the implementation of a waste management plan. it is important to reduce the volume of waste and to tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling. i call for greater emphasis on the recovery of organic waste, especially in this heavily agricultural region, for data to be verified and for a system to be set up for the exchange of good practice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the waste crisis in campania because it underlines the importance of this issue in environmental terms, particularly with regard to the protection of natura 2000 sites.
in writing. - a sustainable solution to the waste crisis in the province of campania, the most complex of all the waste management problems in italian regions, needs to be found. union criteria need to be fulfilled, in particular the implementation of a waste management plan in accordance with directive 2008/98/ec. there is an urgent need to make an effort to reduce the volume of waste and to shift the balance towards the prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling of waste through the provision of appropriate infrastructure. the italian authorities' compliance with the acquis communautaire and the two most recent judgments of the court of justice is essential at all levels.
in writing. − the european union has taken an exemplary leadership role in the fight against climate change and in promoting environmental quality. the increased effort which must be made in the field of proper waste collection and treatment is obvious, with a view to better waste management and its use for the benefit of quality of life and economic development. it is in this context that i support measures which will encourage best environmental practice in the troubled region of campania in italy. i would stress that the local risks of harmful effects arising from improper waste treatment and storage will certainly have an impact on the quality of life of citizens, who must also be made aware of and mobilised for the good management of waste as a decisive factor in protecting the environment and promoting the quality of life of both present and future generations. however, the efforts and capacity of the local authorities, which took extraordinary measures in the last municipal waste crisis, which occurred in autumn 2010, complying with the requirements of the ecj judgment of 4 march 2010, should be acknowledged.
in writing. - in the context of the urgency of finding a solution to the waste crisis in campania, italy, the adopted document refers to the need to tip the balance towards waste prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling. the waste crisis in campania demonstrates the danger of subjecting environmental management in all its aspects to a mere profit-making logic. the waste problem, given its nature and its dangers, given its obvious and close interrelations with pressing issues of public health and environmental protection, is a paradigmatic one and must therefore be ensured by means of efficient and quality public services, and it is not acceptable to leave it to market dynamics. the indignation of the people, which has been demonstrated in a very vivid way, is in this case entirely understandable. we cannot but express our serious concern at the incrimination of citizens who have demonstrated peacefully and at the violence to which they have been subjected by the security forces.
in writing. the waste crisis in campania and other regions of italy highlights the dangers of handing over environmental management to private companies with a profit motive. it is also an example of a case where the government acted in defense of private interests and not the collective welfare. the european institutions have been silent accomplices in this attack on people and the ecosystem. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that this time the italian government of berlusconi will comply with european legislation in this area, thus safeguarding the public interest.
in writing. - the waste crisis in campania has been unsustainable for several years and goes against all the rules adopted by all eu member states. it is therefore necessary to rapidly implement a waste management plan in which compliance with the waste hierarchy is a key prerequisite in accordance with directive 2008/98/ec. the european parliament should be kept informed of developments in the situation, in particular on the implementation of a waste management plan, in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice of 4 march 2010 and eu legislation.
in writing. − on 4 march 2010, the court of justice of the european union found that italy had infringed european union law by failing to set up in campania an integrated and adequate network of waste disposal facilities to ensure that waste was recovered and disposed of without endangering human health and without harming the environment (judgment in case c 297/08). the fact that italy has not yet taken the necessary measures to comply with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union has given rise to this resolution, which i voted in line with the ppe group's arguments.
in writing. − in recent years, the italian region of campania has been facing serious problems in waste collection and disposal, which seriously affect the well-being of the local population and pose serious risks to the environment and public health. it is therefore essential that the italian authorities, following the judgment of the court of justice of 14 may 2010, take the necessary measures to definitively and satisfactorily resolve the waste management crises in this region, ensuring full compliance with community law.
mr president, i want to speak in favour of mr schultz’s proposal because this issue is much broader than lampedusa alone: there are 5 000 kilometres between morocco and syria, and with each kilometre the humanitarian risk grows larger. it is not a question of knowing if the european union will help the italian government but to know if we are ready to act as a continent to face a continental risk. this is the task that we face.
it is useful and necessary, commissioner, to recall here the struggles of workers in various countries against this directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. but this discussion shows that the reasons for concern and the reasons for the struggle have not ceased. first of all, because not all the areas in which the state can and must exercise its social function through public services have been clearly excluded from the scope of the directive, a concept which, as we know, has been distorted to give it a restrictive view. why is the intervention of the member states limited to safeguarding the specific features and defending their productive and business fabric? because the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services continue to take precedence over social and labour rights, which are always being eroded as this single market is deepened. mr president, commissioner, a contribution to the defence of the interests of smes would be to put an end, as a matter of urgency, to the so-called austerity plans that suffocate them, as is the case in many countries such as portugal.
the creation of a european patent will stimulate innovation and scientific and technological development in the eu. i think it is essential to resolve the question of the european patent. however, i have reservations about the language regime to be introduced. in my opinion, the best solution would be to use only english, but if the language regime is extended to other languages then portuguese should be included. the competition is global and portuguese is the third most spoken language among western languages, after english and spanish.
this process is revealing, in form and content, the new conditions under which the directory of powers of the european union seeks to assert and defend its interests in a wide range of areas. the new conditions created by the treaty of lisbon and this mechanism of enhanced cooperation, the consequences of which we warned about in due course. in this case, and without forgetting at any time the fundamental questions concerning the concept of a unitary patent, its aims and implications, the aim will be to impose a privileged status on the patent register for english, french and german, without any other criterion than that which i have just mentioned. in the process, other languages such as portuguese, the third most widely spoken european language in the world, are being subordinated, thus harming the interests of these other countries, and immediately curtailing the possibility of their languages also asserting themselves in the fields of science and technology. if these attempts are to be realised, it will be a more than exclusive dimension of the attack on multilingualism in the european union, which always makes its way insidiously through the door of cost containment.
for the gue/ngl group i would also like to begin by joining with the colleagues who understand that when we talk about radioactive contamination of food or soil, we are talking about a public health problem. that is basically the central question. the impact of these problems of excessive radioactive contamination is felt in terms of health impacts, in particular through the increase in the number of cancers and other diseases. and so it is not in our interest to have a legal basis which does not put public health at the heart of the matter. we know perfectly well how important this debate is. we know this from chernobyl, but not just because of chernobyl. now what chernobyl had that was really important was to show us the extent of this problem and how much it can affect people's lives. and it's good that we learn from history. so it is up to us to prevent and regulate. i think that the debate today is clear on the proposal that is being put forward. firstly, there is the positive aspect of trying to bring this regulation into the public health field, as i have already mentioned. secondly, to try to put an end to some of the unnecessary and often discretionary measures. thirdly, the updating processes and the more transparent and democratic decision-making process. there remains the problem of maximum levels. we cannot continue to expose the most disadvantaged and most affected groups to such high levels. the maximum levels must guarantee the safety of all citizens and we know perfectly well that in every country there are cases of this kind, of death announced. in portugal, for example, there is the case of urgeiriça. we do well to take all of this into account.
mr president, a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency, given its gravity and its transfrontier nature, naturally requires coordination and concertation of efforts and the establishment of a set of common procedures with a view to containing and minimising the effects on the population and the environment. this need for coordination also extends to the establishment of maximum tolerated levels of contamination in foodstuffs. but we cannot accept the argument that in order to serve the interests of citizens better by better managing the situation after accidents, the intervention and the room for manoeuvre of the member states must be limited. on the contrary, it is the member states which have the responsibility for safeguarding and protecting the health of their citizens. it is also true, and for the most part, in emergency situations, and therefore they should be able to take on more demanding levels of protection if they so wish, which should in all respects be possible through the adoption of exceptional measures with a view to safeguarding the health of the population and the environment.
the situation of many micro and small enterprises in various countries of the european union, which have been deeply affected by the crisis and neoliberal policies, is tragic. in portugal, tens of thousands of small family businesses, smes, in a wide variety of sectors - industry, commerce, services, agriculture - have closed, which has increased unemployment and poverty. the problems of bank credit, bureaucracy and the difficulty of access to community support, especially for these micro and small enterprises, are strangling the economic development of vast regions and impeding employment growth. a complete change of policies in these areas is therefore required to effectively support these smes, insisting on the financial system so that there is credit available to smes and sufficient community support.
i would also like to say, mr president, commissioner, that i think this issue is too important to continue living in the deception we have been living in europe. a deception or a false promise, as you like to call it, because we have been operating mainly in the area of stem cell harvesting from umbilical cords from databases of information that are misleading. and we know, and it has been mentioned, that in europe the collection of stem cells through the umbilical cord is less than 1%. however, we also know that its possibilities for treating disease may be endless. diseases like those that we've already mentioned: cancer, alzheimer's, rare diseases... there are so many possibilities. but what we let happen was that they set up a set of private cell preservation banks and told parents and mothers that they could store their child's cells at the time of birth and from there cure them in the future if needed. i think we should be more responsible than that, because the probability of guaranteeing that this happens is very low, as we know. and this false promise that's sold to parents costs money. in portugal, for example, it costs three and a half minimum wages to make this false promise. the solution is clearly to create public stem cell banks, because only with public stem cell banks can we ensure equal use, equal access, effective medical treatment and more research that is equal for all, and not just using stem cells as a commodity or a business that is growing, but that is only for a few. so i think that solidarity, common sense and impartial information are not things that can be classified as too demanding after all. we have no power to enforce. we have the power to promote. that is within our competence, and i think we should do it in the name of equality.
mr president, food prices have reached their highest level ever and are rising for the seventh time in a row. there are several factors which may explain this increase, the first being a short-term factor. it has to do with the coincidence of bad weather in some countries, like russia and argentina. but there are two factors that are structural, they are of a structural order, and that is why i bring these two factors here. the first is that some food producers and consumers, who were exporters, have become importers, as is the case in china. the second is that the weight of a few large multinationals can make prices work in their favour. the cereals example is very clear on this point: is dominated by six large multinationals. this situation therefore places farmers in a situation of great uncertainty about food prices. europe must therefore do again what it has not done for some time, namely protect its producers and consumers. in a world where everyone is resorting to protectionist measures and where multinationals manipulate prices, we cannot continue to be naive.
mr president, the management of innovation, that is to say research and development of new technologies and production processes, their large-scale application and the selection of the appropriate times for such application should be guided primarily by the protection of the public interest, the improvement of the quality of life of the population and the preservation of the environment. first, it is these, and not the narrow commercial interests of industry and economic groups, which should guide innovation efforts and the management of their applications. this is also true in the case of vehicle emissions. given that the transport sector is responsible for a substantial share of co2 emissions, a proportionate share of the reduction efforts should be focused here. the increase in the energy efficiency of vehicles, the reduction of fuel consumption and, in general, the development of low-carbon technologies are therefore an important direction to pursue, which is already made possible by scientific and technical development, especially in view of the progressive and inexorable shortage of fossil fuels, which should be taken care of from now on.
in writing. the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the european union and its emissions are continuing to increase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from road transport. the greenhouse gas reduction objective will be better achieved if there is community-wide legislation rather than national legislation with different objectives. however, we must combine ambition with realism and common sense. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i therefore agree with the target of 147 g co2/km emissions for new light commercial vehicles registered in the union and provided that the feasibility of this option is confirmed. i am also pleased that no single european speed limit has been introduced for this type of vehicle.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur's position on the consensus needed for the conclusion of the agreement, with new provisions in line with the objectives of development cooperation for the union, as laid down in article 208 tfeu. on the other hand, i believe that the approach has been extremely focused on trade, economic and free trade concerns to the detriment of a more robust approach to development, welcoming new provisions that should be inserted into the revised agreement, especially with regard to the fight against poverty, aid efficiency, the mdgs and the link between migration and development. however, i support this proposal because i consider that relations and trade with south africa are essential for both sides.
in writing. - i welcome this new agreement which aims to strengthen bilateral cooperation in a number of areas. i would stress the importance of children's rights, gender equality, the fight against violence against women, environmental cooperation, particularly in relation to climate change, cultural cooperation, cooperation in the fight against drugs and money laundering, as well as cooperation in health and, in particular, the fight against aids. the relationship between cooperation and development should cover strategies for poverty reduction, improvement of living and working conditions and job creation; the participation of migrants in the development of their country of origin; cooperation to strengthen capacity, in particular in the health and education sectors, in order to offset the negative impact of brain drain on sustainable development in south africa. i welcome the merit of the extension of our cooperation in these many new areas and welcome the new development provisions in the revised agreement, in particular those relating to the fight against poverty, aid effectiveness, the mdgs or the relationship between migration and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support the implementation of new provisions in the agreement relating to development. it is important to ensure effective follow-up by the european authorities, as provided for in the lisbon treaty, in order to achieve the objectives of reducing and eradicating poverty in south africa.
in writing. - south africa is a country which, since the end of apartheid, has been attracting international interest, support and esteem for the way in which, despite difficulties and setbacks, it has managed to make a relatively peaceful transition from a supremacist regime to a democracy with universal suffrage. it is impossible to recall this transition without recalling the inspiring figure of nelson mandela and his witness of dignity, kindness and reconciliation, which still positively marks that country today. today, it can be said that south africa is an indispensable part of the geopolitics and geostrategy of the african continent and an example for other countries that have not yet managed to free themselves from the dictatorships that oppress them and limit their development. the european union has a strong interest in deepening its ties with south africa and in establishing mutually beneficial partnerships with it. i therefore support the amendment of the eu-south africa trade, development and cooperation agreement.
in writing. − on 1 may 2004, the first trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, entered into force. this agreement, signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999, although established for an indefinite period, provided for a review within five years of its entry into force. i therefore welcome this recommendation, which is the culmination of a long negotiation process (the revised agreement was signed in kleinmond on 11 september 2009) and allows for the entry into force of legislation introducing significant changes to the original agreement, notably in the area of disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as well as in the fight against poverty (meeting the millennium development goals [mdgs]), among many other significant changes. while i agree with the rapporteur on the priority given to trade issues over a development approach, i am voting in favour of this recommendation, aware that it is another step forward for the eu in terms of development cooperation, towards the goal of eventually eradicating poverty.
in writing. − this proposal to amend the trade, development and cooperation agreement (tdca) to include a global development aid envelope should be seen in the light of the eu's efforts to get south africa to sign an economic partnership agreement (epa), seeking to overcome criticism and legitimate resistance to both the current tdca and the eu's vision of what the epas should be. the acdc stressed the economic asymmetries between the two sides in favour of the eu, which increased its exports to south africa. the failure of the eu's policies to liberalize trade in goods, services and capital is visible. the deepening economic and financial crisis of capitalism makes this clear. instead of mutual aid and reciprocity, competition is promoted by imposing a division of labour which shifts agricultural exports to south africa and industrial exports to the eu. the beneficiaries are the usual ones: the eu's major powers and their economic groups. the consequences are obvious, not only for developing countries, but also for eu countries such as portugal: weakening of the productive sectors, increased external dependence, unemployment, poverty...
in writing. − a first trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, was signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999 and entered into force on 1 may 2004 for an indefinite period. this agreement had a review clause for 5 years after its entry into force. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty also requires the adoption of a new agreement, with the eu exercising all the rights and obligations previously exercised by the european community. the revised agreement signed in kleinmond in 2009 introduces a number of significant changes to the original agreement, including the following development-related changes: disarmament, alongside democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law, cooperation on disarmament issues and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of south africa, of the other part, amending the agreement on trade, development and cooperation. since the entry into force of the cbca, eu trade in goods with south africa has been steadily increasing. the european union is south africa's main trading partner: in 2009, the eu was the destination of about 34% of south africa's total exports and the source of about 35% of south africa's total imports. the balance between imports and exports is striking, and i am concerned only with the production methods in south africa for products exported to the eu, which must comply with the same standards as european producers in the same industry. these indicators point to a path where the results of the first agreement signed in 1999 are already evident. i share the rapporteur's wish that the union's development cooperation objectives be respected, the main one being the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation on the review of the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states and south africa. compared with the initial agreement signed in pretoria on 11 october 1999, this revised agreement, signed in kleinmond on 11 september 2009, extended the political dialogue between the parties to important areas such as the fight against weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism, and thus strengthened the development cooperation strand, with a special focus on operations contributing to the fight against poverty, in the context of the achievement of the millennium development goals. i therefore welcome the amendments.
in writing. − 1999 marks the signing of the first trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states and the republic of south africa, which entered into force in 2004. this first agreement was purely economic in nature, liberalizing trade and leaving little room for development cooperation. the revision of the agreement, signed in 2009, introduces important changes to development policy, including cooperation on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the incorporation of the rule of law and human rights, aid effectiveness, particularly in the fight against poverty, and the achievement of the millennium development goals. new areas of cooperation were added: combating terrorism and organised crime, preventing mercenary activities, combating the manufacture, trade and accumulation of small arms and light weapons, and cooperation on migration. i welcome the approval of this agreement with a strategic partner of the european union, and the institutionalisation of non-state actors as cooperation partners, and thus eligible for financial aid.
in writing. - given that the four agreements contained in the commission proposal offer the possibility of strengthening the eea/efta contribution to the reduction of economic and social disparities in the european economic area, i approve this report. the eu-iceland-liechtenstein-norway agreement and the eu-norway agreement are two financial mechanisms for the period 2009-2014 which provide for an overall package of eur 1.8 billion, representing an increase of 31% of the eea financial mechanism and an increase of 22% of the norwegian financial mechanism compared to the previous period. these resources are being made available to iceland, the 12 newest member states, as well as portugal, spain and greece, helping to revive some of the european economies most weakened by the crisis.
in writing. − the aim of this resolution is to vote in favour of four agreements between the european union and iceland, liechtenstein and norway, which are designed to establish the contributions of these countries to reducing economic and social disparities within the european economic area and to strengthen them compared to the previous period. this proposal strengthens the contribution of the states concerned and does not substantially alter the fishing concessions. in this respect, the period 2009-2014 is essentially a renewal of the previously agreed period 2004-2009. the unanimous vote in the committees on international trade and fisheries is a clear indication of the uncontroversial nature of this question.
in writing. the european commission is presenting to parliament a proposal for four agreements. two of these agreements, on financial mechanisms for the period 2009-14, have a total financial allocation of eur 1.8 billion and concern an agreement between the eu, iceland, liechtenstein and norway (european economic area/eea financial mechanism, with an increase of 31%) and another between the eu and norway (norway financial mechanism, with an increase of 22%). the other two agreements relate to fishing concessions for iceland and norway between the years 2009 and 2014 and provide for their renewal. for iceland, the concessions are the same; as regards norway, as they have increased slightly, there will be a renewal of the transit agreement which expired on 30 april 2009. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
in writing. the conclusion of this agreement, which was approved here today, follows on from the agreement on the european economic area (eea) which has been in force since 1994 and involves the eea-efta states. at that time, five-yearly contributions were agreed by these states to reduce economic and social disparities in the eea, an objective which we naturally value. the appropriations for this five-year period (2009-2014) have increased to more than double the amount made available in the previous period. these eea financial resources will be made available to the 12 newest member states, as well as to greece, portugal and spain, and can be used in a wide range of areas, including environmental protection, social and human development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage. in view of the enlargements of the eu and the worsening social and economic situation in many of its countries, such as portugal, we consider it important to increase these appropriations.
in writing. - these agreements provide for an overall package of eur 1.8 billion, consisting of a 31% increase in the eea financial mechanism and a 22% increase in the norwegian financial mechanism. it should be noted that these eea financial resources should be channelled to finance, as a matter of priority, environmental protection, climate change and renewable energy, civil society, human and social development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage. norway's financial resources will be channelled into the priority sectors of carbon capture and storage, eco-industrial innovation, research and scholarship, human and social development, justice and home affairs, and the promotion of decent work and tripartite dialogue. as regards the two protocols on certain fishing concessions for iceland and norway for the period 2009-2014, they provide for the renewal of the previous protocols for 2004-2009, with the concessions for iceland remaining unchanged and those for norway being slightly increased, which will serve as a basis for the renewal of the fisheries transit agreement by norway.
in writing. − this report gives the green light to the renewal of the eea agreements. since the entry into force of the eea agreement in 1994, the eea-efta states (now iceland, liechtenstein and norway) have contributed to reducing economic and social disparities in the eea. these contributions have always been agreed for five-year periods and it is now intended to renew the agreements for the period 2009-2014. in parallel, but independently of these negotiations, negotiations were also initiated and then concluded on 18.12.2009 on the basis of the revision clause of the two bilateral fish protocols with iceland and norway. the outcome of the above negotiations should include the significant increase in the financial mechanism, although iceland's position remained unchanged in view of the severe crisis it is going through. as regards the agreements on certain fishing concessions for iceland and norway for the period 2009-2014, i support the favourable opinion of the fisheries committee which highlights the slight increase in concessions to norway, which will serve as a basis for the renewal of the fisheries transit agreement by norway, which expired on 30.04.2009. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − since the entry into force of the agreement on the european economic area (eea) in 1994, the eea-efta states (now iceland, liechtenstein and norway) have contributed to reducing economic and social disparities in the eea. these contributions have always been agreed for five-year periods, and this is now the case with regard to the agreements reached on the financial mechanisms for the period 2009-2014 and the renewal of two bilateral protocols with iceland and norway concerning fishing concessions. no major changes were made to these protocols compared with the previous period, with the concessions for iceland remaining unchanged and those for norway only slightly increased. as regards the agreements on financial mechanisms, they have led to a significant increase in the contribution of the eea efta states compared to the period 2004-09, with an overall package of eur 1800 million being made available to the 12 newest member states, as well as greece, portugal and spain, to finance priority important sectors, including environmental protection, climate change, renewable energy, human and social development and the safeguarding of cultural heritage. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this recommendation, as this horizontal agreement allows for the removal of national restrictions in the current bilateral agreements between member states and brazil, which benefits the entire european airline industry. in addition, the agreement allows the restoration of a sound legal basis for eu-brazil relations in the aviation sector and is an important contribution to the strengthening of eu-brazil relations in this sector. i foresee that this agreement can generate benefits for consumers in the order of eur 460 million in fare reductions, promote employment and allow new business opportunities for eu airlines to emerge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation as it represents an important step towards strengthening eu-brazil relations in the aviation sector, allowing brazil and the eu to move towards the negotiation of a general agreement on air services.
in writing. - the agreement we are approving today is an important step towards strengthening eu relations with brazil in the aviation sector. it is estimated that this agreement could generate benefits for consumers, by reducing fares by €460 million, as well as creating new business opportunities for eu airlines and advantages for people travelling between the eu and brazil. in view of the special ties between portugal and brazil, i welcome the conclusion of this agreement which will bring europe and brazil closer together, with all the economic, social and cultural advantages that may result.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has substantially changed the powers of several european institutions, notably the european parliament, which in the new context is called upon to give its opinion on matters which were previously outside its competence, such as the present case of an international agreement between the eu and the federative republic of brazil on air services. this agreement, signed on 14 july 2010, aims to replace the provisions contained in the bilateral air services agreements between 12 member states and the federative republic of brazil by a bilateral agreement between the eu and the federative republic of brazil. i agree with this agreement, which represents a strengthening of relations between the eu and brazil in the aviation sector.
in writing. - as with previous agreements of the same scope, recently approved by parliament, in view of the current specific framework in which civil aviation activity is developing, this proposal raises serious doubts as to its scope and possible consequences. this is an area with obvious impacts on airlines, in a sector which is, for various reasons, strategic for the safeguarding of national interests. in this case, in the case of brazil, this concern is all the more pressing. the intention is clear and the rapporteur does not hide it: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. we know that the alleged creation of a level playing field for the various european airlines is helping to facilitate the process of monopolistic concentration in the sector and consequently to reduce the ability of states to defend their flag carriers and thus their legitimate interests at various levels. the 'free competition' which is so sacrosanct and which must be defended at all costs is once again the cornerstone on which this initiative is based. the consequences in this and other sectors do not differ substantially: it is the monopolistic concentration that always comes to the fore in these scenarios.
in writing. - free competition has always been defended by the eu. the mandate given to the commission on 15 october 2010 to negotiate a general agreement on air services with brazil, based on a combination of gradual market opening and regulatory cooperation and convergence, makes perfect sense. with this new agreement, it grants all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to links with brazil and replaces or complements the provisions of the current 14 bilateral air service agreements between member states and brazil. this is an important first step towards strengthening eu-brazil relations in the aviation sector, which has allowed brazil and the eu to further strengthen their cooperation at this level and move towards the negotiation of a general agreement on air services between brazil and the eu. with this new agreement, all consumers benefit, with the possibility of reduced air fares to brazil.
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the international agreement between the eu and brazil. this is a horizontal agreement with brazil which will establish a solid legal basis for eu-brazil relations in the aviation sector. this important step towards strengthening eu-brazil relations in the aviation sector will allow brazil and the eu to further strengthen their cooperation at this level and move towards the negotiation of a general agreement on air services between brazil and the eu. it is expected that this agreement could generate benefits for consumers (in terms of tariff reductions) of the order of eur 460 million. the effects on employment will be positive and it is expected that new business opportunities will open up for eu airlines, along with advantages for the people who travel. in view of the above, i support the rapporteur in her proposal for parliament's approval of this report and in her request to the council to conclude this procedure as soon as possible.
in writing. - given the important links between portugal and brazil, i naturally welcome the approval of this agreement, which replaces certain provisions of the 12 bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states and the federative republic of brazil. this agreement provides the basis for the strengthening of eu-brazil relations in the aviation sector, and is expected to result in significant benefits for consumers (in terms of reduced fares) and new business opportunities for eu airlines.
in writing. − relations between the european union and brazil are an area of great importance in current european external relations. this agreement, which i consider to be the first of many steps towards a new eu civil aviation policy with brazil, sets the general framework for the development of relations in this field. it is called the horizontal agreement because it creates a solid legal basis for various aspects of civil aviation between the two parties by replacing the traditional bilateral agreements with provisions of general and uniform application throughout the european territory provided for in this agreement. the draft recommendation, for which i was the shadow rapporteur, welcomes the terms of the agreement, which deal with such important aspects as safety and the imposition of taxes on fuels of general application throughout the european territory and the requirement to comply with european competition rules. i believe that the agreement will open the way to new economic advantages for both consumers and airlines and to the strengthening of cooperation relations between the two transatlantic parties, thus being an added value for the european union. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − having regard to the draft council decision (07853/2010), the draft agreement between the ec and the republic of iceland, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on supplementary rules on the external borders fund for the period 2007-13, and the request for approval by the council under the tfeu, legally framed and recommended by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i approve the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. − i approve the agreement concluded between the european community and iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein on supplementary rules on the external borders fund for the period 2007-13. the countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis shall participate in the external borders fund in accordance with the provisions of the decision establishing that fund. this agreement should therefore provide for the application of rules in the territory of these associated countries, with a view to enabling the commission to assume ultimate responsibility for the implementation of the fund budget in these states. it covers aspects of the financial management and control of the fund and also lays down provisions concerning the financial contributions of these countries to the fund budget. i would also like to mention the choice made by liechtenstein, through a joint declaration, not to participate in the fund, although this does not affect its obligation to contribute financially to the fund, since it was set up to share the burden and to provide financial support for the application of the schengen acquis in the field of external borders and visa policy.
in writing. - the proposal concerns the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of an agreement between the european community and the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, which broadly concerns the participation of these countries in the external borders fund of the union, resulting from their participation in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. it is foreseen that subsequent agreements will be concluded laying down the additional provisions necessary for the implementation of this participation, in particular those ensuring the protection of the financial interests of the union and authorising the court of auditors to scrutinise the whole process. parliament's vote in favour will be followed by the council's final approval of the agreement.
in writing. − this recommendation relates to a draft decision of the european council on the establishment of an agreement between the eu and the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on supplementary rules concerning the external borders fund (2007-2013). whereas this agreement is in line with the objectives which led to the signing of the schengen treaty on the free movement of persons and goods; whereas agreements have already been concluded between the eu and the abovementioned countries on the objectives set out in the schengen treaty; whereas the eu has set up an external borders fund for the period 2077 to 2013 under the general programme solidarity and management of migration flows, i welcome the conclusion of this agreement, which will contribute to strengthening cohesion in the european area.
in writing. − this report follows the agreement between the european community and the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on supplementary rules on the external borders fund for the period 2007-13. it is linked to agreements concluded or in the process of being concluded between these states and the countries of the european union on the movement and freedom of movement of persons. so, in order to support the control of the external borders, particularly in the area of immigration, the european union wants to allocate, under certain conditions, community support from the external borders fund for the period 2007-2013, which is worthy of criticism as regards the objectives of the european union and the commission's action, since we cannot ignore the inadmissible return directive.
in writing. − in the context of the new powers conferred by the treaty of lisbon on the european parliament, it is necessary to approve the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the eu, the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on supplementary rules in relation to the external borders fund for the period 2007-2013. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs recommended that the agreement be approved. the agreement provides for the participation in the fund of third countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. this participation is achieved through additional agreements to be reached to clarify the provisions necessary for such participation, including provisions for the protection of the eu's financial interests and the granting of audit authorisation to the court of auditors. the agreement between the parties has been reached and since there was no negative note in any of the opinions expressed, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − according to decision no 574/2007/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 23 may 2007 establishing the external borders fund for the period 2007 to 2013, third countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis are to participate in this fund, and for this purpose it is provided for the conclusion of agreements specifying the supplementary rules necessary for such participation, including provisions ensuring the protection of the financial interests of the community and the exercise of the audit powers of the court of auditors. this proposal concerns the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, which is precisely intended to lay down supplementary rules concerning the participation of these countries in the said fund, and has my support, in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the schengen area already allows free movement across 42 673 km of external maritime borders and 7 721 km of land borders, covering 25 countries and 400 million citizens. the gradual enlargement of this area has enabled third countries with special relations with the eu to participate in schengen cooperation and the swiss confederation to also accede to the schengen acquis on 1 march 2008. given the policy of openness between switzerland and the principality of liechtenstein, a micro-state which has been gradually integrating into the european trading area since its accession to the european economic area in 1995, the fact that it has already transposed 98.4% of eu directives into its internal law and that this state is part of the single market, there is no reason for me to oppose its accession to the schengen area.
in writing. - five member states decided 25 years ago to abolish internal borders between them and create a single external border. at present, all member states are full schengen members, with the exception of the united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria and romania. three associated states are also involved: norway, iceland and switzerland, with liechtenstein set to become the fourth. liechtenstein's association with schengen was expected to take place at the same time as switzerland 2008. however, the procedure did not proceed as planned, in particular because of reservations raised by two member states (germany and sweden) on issues related to tax evasion. the isolated accession of switzerland has made it necessary to introduce controls in areas where, for over a hundred years, there was no real border, and the 41 km that separates switzerland from liechtenstein has become an external border. in view of the new rules in the lisbon treaty, which allow the ep to be associated much more closely with the conclusion of international agreements, and the fact that the reservations that existed in the council have been lifted, i propose that the ep give its consent to the conclusion of this protocol, hoping that liechtenstein can join schengen as soon as possible.
in writing. − given the open border policy between the principality of liechtenstein and the swiss confederation, it would be expected that the two countries would have joined schengen at the same time. however, that is not what happened. switzerland joined the schengen area on its own on 12 december 2008. however, the swiss accession agreement already provided for the possibility of accession by liechtenstein, by means of a protocol, which this parliament now approves. with this accession, it was for the first time necessary to carry out border controls between liechtenstein and switzerland, in places where, for a century, no real border existed.
in writing. − this recommendation advises parliament to give its consent to the establishment of a protocol between the european union, the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to the agreement between the european union, the european community and the swiss confederation on the swiss confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, which was signed on 28 february 2008. the schengen treaty aims to create an area where there is free movement of persons and goods, without controls at the internal borders between states, and where there is only one external border. with the treaty of amsterdam (1999), schengen cooperation was taken over by the european union within the framework of its legal competences. for decades, the principality of liechtenstein and the swiss confederation have practised a policy of open borders with free movement of persons. with switzerland's accession to the schengen area in 2008, a problem of movement between the two states was created by turning this border into an external border, which is now being addressed. in view of the advantages of the entry into force of this protocol, nothing prevents its adoption.
in writing. the schengen agreement dates back to 1985 and was concluded between germany, belgium, france, luxembourg and the netherlands. the agreement, and the subsequent convention adopted in 1990, aims to abolish systematic checks at the common borders and to establish a regime of free movement of persons. the convention implementing the schengen agreement abolished internal border controls between the signatory states and created a single external border with common visa rules, police and judicial cooperation, and the schengen information system. the schengen area currently comprises 25 schengen member states: the member states of the european union austria, belgium, denmark, france, finland, germany, greece, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, portugal, spain, sweden, slovenia, the czech republic, estonia, hungary, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland, slovakia, and the three associated countries which are not members of the eu norway, iceland and switzerland. at present, bulgaria, romania and cyprus only partially apply the schengen acquis and therefore controls continue to be carried out at their borders.
in writing. − the accession of new countries to the schengen information system is essential to achieve a europe without borders. liechtenstein has been part of the european economic area (eea) since 1995 and has been gradually integrating into the european trading area. it has been subject to a number of evaluation procedures, in particular with regard to data protection, the schengen information system, air, land and sea borders, police cooperation and visa policy. the accession of liechtenstein to the agreement will make it part of the schengen acquis.
in writing. the schengen agreement was signed on 14 june 1985 between germany, belgium, france, luxembourg and the netherlands. at present, schengen cooperation is part of the eu's legal and institutional framework and comprises 25 schengen member states, including the three countries associated with the eea - norway, iceland and switzerland. switzerland joined the schengen area on its own on 12 december 2008 with the abolition of checks at land borders, followed by the abolition of border checks on intra-schengen flights at airports on 29 march 2009. since liechtenstein has not joined and there is an intense free movement policy between the two countries, it has been necessary for the first time to carry out checks in places where, for a century, there has been no real border. the 41 km that separates the two countries has become an external border of schengen. this agreement removes this barrier by the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to schengen. i welcome the new rules introduced by the treaty of lisbon which allow the european parliament to play an active role in the adoption of these agreements. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the agreement on the accession of the swiss confederation to the schengen acquis, in force since 1 march 2008, already explicitly provided for the possible association of liechtenstein by means of a protocol. in fact, given the decades-old policy of open borders between the principality of liechtenstein and the swiss confederation, it was expected that both countries would join the schengen area at the same time. the truth is that this did not happen, and switzerland alone acceded to the schengen acquis on 12 december 2008, which eventually determined the need to carry out controls in places where, for a century, there was no real border. in order to overcome this obstacle, and also in view of the fact that liechtenstein is part of the european economic area and the single market, i have given my support to the conclusion of this protocol, in the hope that liechtenstein's accession to the schengen acquis can finally be achieved.
in writing. − i approve this recommendation in view of the fact that the agreement concluded on 26 october 2004 with the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in an eu member state or in switzerland provides for the possibility for liechtenstein to join the dublin acquis by means of a protocol. given the policy of openness between the two countries and the fact that liechtenstein expressed an interest in joining the agreement in 2001 and that the agreement was not concluded because of the differences between the council and the european parliament, which were resolved in the treaty of lisbon, there is no reason for me to oppose the conclusion of the agreement in question.
in writing. − in 2004 the agreement on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland was concluded dublin/eurodac agreement with switzerland. given that there has been a policy of open borders for the movement of people between switzerland and liechtenstein for decades, it would be logical for liechtenstein to be associated with these negotiations. although liechtenstein expressed its interest, it was excluded as it had not yet concluded an agreement on the taxation of savings with the european community. in view of the new rules of the lisbon treaty, which allow the ep to be associated much more closely with the conclusion of international agreements, and the fact that liechtenstein has concluded the agreement in question, which has been in force since 1 july 2005, i support the ep's decision to give its consent to the conclusion of this protocol.
in writing. − in 2004, an agreement was concluded with switzerland on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state. the agreement provides for the possibility of liechtenstein's association by means of a protocol. on 27 february 2006, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with liechtenstein and switzerland. on 21 june 2006, the negotiations were concluded and the draft protocol on the accession of liechtenstein to the dublin agreement with switzerland was initialled. it is now up to parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of this protocol, which i believe it should do, and that is why i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − the council has presented a draft protocol between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein on the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland. i welcome the adoption of this protocol involving the european union and two states with a history of good neighbourly relations, such as the free movement of persons. i agree with the conclusions of the rapporteur, particularly in welcoming the continuation of the negotiations on the accession of the principality of liechtenstein to the dublin agreement with switzerland and in expressing my hope that they will be concluded quickly.
in writing. − these are issues related to the right to asylum and the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland. the agreement concluded on 26 october 2004 with the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an application for asylum lodged in a member state or in switzerland (the dublin agreement with switzerland) provides for the possibility of liechtenstein's accession to that acquis. as a policy of opening the borders to the movement of persons between liechtenstein and switzerland has existed for decades, liechtenstein expressed in 2001 its interest in joining the dublin agreement with switzerland. but it was not involved in the negotiations with switzerland because it did not conclude an agreement on the taxation of savings with the eu. with the subsequent conclusion and entry into force of this eu-liechtenstein agreement, liechtenstein confirmed in 2005 its wish to join the dublin acquis. in 2006, the council gave the commission the necessary authorisation to open negotiations with liechtenstein and switzerland, the negotiations were concluded and the draft protocol was initialled.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament has been consulted again on the draft council decision and that therefore the negotiations on liechtenstein's association with the dublin agreement with switzerland are proceeding. in accordance with the wish already expressed by parliament at first reading, the european parliament's approval is required for the conclusion of this protocol with liechtenstein. in view of the existing link between liechtenstein and the eu, i think it is important to conclude the protocol, with the necessary amendment of the legal basis. hence my vote.
in writing. − the agreement concluded on 26 october 2004 with the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland, the so-called dublin agreement with switzerland, provides for the possibility of liechtenstein's accession to the dublin acquis by means of a protocol. in fact, the existence of a policy of opening the borders to the movement of persons between liechtenstein and switzerland that has been in place for several decades led liechtenstein to express again in 2005 its interest in acceding to the dublin agreement with switzerland. the final conclusion of the agreement has not yet been achieved for a number of reasons: firstly, because no other agreements have been concluded with liechtenstein; secondly, because of a disagreement over the legal basis; and finally, because of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. finally, the european parliament sees its objectives achieved when it is heard to give a favourable opinion rather than merely being consulted. i welcome this and i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − the agreement concluded on 26 october 2004 with the swiss confederation on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the state responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in a member state or in switzerland (the dublin agreement) provides for the possibility for liechtenstein to join the dublin acquis by means of a protocol. as a result of a decades-long policy of opening the borders to the movement of persons between switzerland and liechtenstein, liechtenstein expressed interest as early as 2001 in joining the dublin agreement with switzerland, but was not involved in the negotiations because it had not concluded an agreement on the taxation of savings with the european community. with the subsequent conclusion and entry into force of that agreement between the european community and liechtenstein, liechtenstein confirmed on 10 june 2005 its wish to become a party to the dublin acquis. having overcome the differences with the council as regards the legal basis and having assumed the need for the approval of the european parliament, i believe that all the conditions are met for consent to the conclusion of this protocol with liechtenstein.
in writing. − i approve this recommendation in view of the fact that the current eu-brazil agreement grants reciprocal visa exemption for tourist and business travel for all brazilian and eu citizens, including nationals of the four member states who do not currently enjoy visa exemption for brazil. in so far as the agreement does not replace but complements the agreements currently in force between several member states and brazil, which cover travel for purposes other than tourism and business or paid employment, no reason is found to prevent the conclusion of the agreement. the duration of stay was limited to three months during a six-month period in the schengen area, raising no concerns about illegal stay of brazilian citizens.
in writing. − while brazilian citizens can travel to all eu member states without a visa for short stays, there are still four eu member states (estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia) whose citizens require a visa to enter brazilian territory. while all other member states have negotiated bilateral agreements with brazil to ensure the exemption from the visa requirement for short stays, at present there is no longer any possibility for member states to conclude such agreements on an individual basis. the union thus has exclusive external competence in the field of the common visa policy. an agreement between the eu and brazil was thus concluded on 8 november 2010 granting reciprocal visa-free travel for tourist and business purposes to all eu and brazilian citizens. i support this agreement, which thus guarantees equal treatment for all eu citizens, while ensuring that it can only be suspended or terminated by either brazil or the eu if it applies to all its member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation to safeguard equal treatment for all european citizens under the common visa policy between the eu and brazil. the agreement does not replace but complements the bilateral agreements currently in force covering travel for purposes other than tourism and business.
in writing. - under the last portuguese presidency, the european union established a special strategic partnership with brazil. in the spirit of such an agreement, all measures to remove obstacles to contacts between european citizens and those of the portuguese-speaking country are obviously to be welcomed. since four european countries do not yet enjoy such an exemption, i think it would be very useful to extend the same system to them and, consequently, to assess positively the agreement which is now being proposed to us. as regards eu-brazil relations, i would remind you that the strategic importance of this country has long justified the establishment of a specific delegation, as is already the case with the other members of the bric group and with countries that are objectively less relevant on the international scene.
in writing. − brazilian citizens, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 539/2001, can travel to all eu member states without a visa and provided that the stays are short. however, not all people from the european union enjoy the same privileges. this situation concerns nationals of the following countries: estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia, and therefore the principle of reciprocity is not respected. in order to ensure that these citizens are on an equal footing with the rest of the inhabitants of the european union and brazil, an agreement between the eu and brazil is necessary. because we cannot have a two-speed european union, i welcome the approval of this agreement, not only because it seems to be entirely fair, but also because it ends one of the few negative discriminations that still exists between citizens of the european union.
in writing. - it is intended to extend to the european union (eu) countries still subject to its abolition short-term stays for holders of a common passport. the report supports the conclusion as soon as possible of this visa-free agreement so that all eu citizens, including the citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, can travel without a visa to brazil for tourism and business purposes, just as brazilian citizens can already travel without a visa to all eu member states. this is the application of the reciprocity policy on visas. the european parliament believes that visa reciprocity should be extended until all its citizens from all member states can enter without a visa all the countries whose citizens can already travel without a visa to the eu, including the united states and canada. which we think is fair.
in writing. − all eu citizens who want to travel to brazil for tourism and business purposes will not need a visa for stays of up to three months, just as brazilian citizens can already travel visa-free to all eu countries, according to the agreement now approved by the european parliament. this agreement will mainly benefit the citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, who still needed a visa to enter brazil. this agreement concerns holders of a common passport. with the approval of this agreement, all eu citizens - including citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, who were still required to have a visa by brazil - will be able to enter the country without a visa for tourism and business purposes, just as brazilian citizens can now travel without a visa to all eu member states. the duration of the stay is limited to three months, and for a period of six months in the schengen area. this agreement will cover about 90 to 95% of all travellers.
in writing. − brazilian citizens can travel to all eu member states without a visa for short stays, in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 539/2001. however, brazil continues to require a visa for entry into its territory from citizens of four member states: estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia. the other member states have concluded bilateral agreements directly with brazil. to address this and in the light of the european union's exclusive external competence in this area, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of a visa waiver agreement between the european union and brazil for short stays. the current eu-brazil agreement, which i vote for, grants reciprocal visa-free travel for tourist and business purposes to all brazilian and eu citizens, including nationals of the four member states who do not currently enjoy visa-free travel to brazil. the agreement does not replace, but complements, the existing agreements in force between several member states and brazil, which cover travel for purposes other than tourism and professional travel (e.g. students and researchers).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-brazil agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of a common passport, in order to ensure that, in accordance with the requirements of the principle of reciprocity and the principle of equal treatment, all eu citizens - including the citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, who until now still required a visa to enter brazilian territory - can travel without a visa to brazil for tourist and professional purposes, just as brazilian citizens can now travel without a visa to all eu member states.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has institutionalised the exclusive competence of the european union to conclude agreements on the common visa policy with third countries. council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 already allowed brazilian citizens to travel to all member states without the need for a visa. however, brazil continued to require visas for entry into its territory from citizens of estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia, member states of the european union. the object of this reciprocal visa-free agreement is for tourist and business purposes, which will bring economic advantages to both parties. the duration of the stay is three months for a period of six months in the schengen area. i think it is important to stress that this agreement takes account of the member states which do not yet fully apply the schengen acquis, namely cyprus, bulgaria and romania, by granting visa-free access to brazilian nationals for a period of three months in the territory of each of the member states, irrespective of the duration of the entire schengen area. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i consider it essential to avoid discrimination between citizens of different member states and to implement the principle of reciprocity, which is a fundamental principle of the european community.
in writing. - i approve this recommendation in view of the fact that brazil is included in the list of countries whose citizens are exempt from the visa requirement when crossing the external borders of the union under regulation (ec) no 539/2001, but that four member states of the european union do not yet enjoy the benefits of reciprocity. since the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty mean that the common visa policy towards foreign countries will become the exclusive competence of the eu, all member states will benefit from visa-free travel with brazil. in addition, the safeguard of existing bilateral agreements between the ms and brazil is maintained, as they include some categories of passengers not covered by the eu-brazil agreement. i also agree with the rapporteur when she says that this agreement should serve as an example for reciprocity with other countries, in particular the usa and canada.
in writing. − although brazil is on the so-called positive list of countries whose citizens are exempt from a visa when crossing the eu's external borders, there are still nationals of 4 eu countries (estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus) who cannot enjoy a similar right when travelling to brazil. under the lisbon treaty, the eu has exclusive competence for the common visa policy towards third countries, so it is up to the eu to negotiate this agreement, which ensures equal treatment for all eu citizens. it was decided to conclude two separate agreements: one for holders of a common passport and the other for holders of a diplomatic, service or official passport. i support this decision, which allows at least the agreement on diplomatic, service or official passports to enter into force more quickly, since unlike the agreement on common passports, it does not require ratification by the brazilian congress. the bilateral agreements concluded previously remain valid as they provide for a visa-free short-stay visa for certain categories of passengers not covered by any of the eu-brazil agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation as it represents progress in establishing a full and reciprocal visa waiver for short stays for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports between the eu and brazil. the conclusion of this agreement should serve as an example for other countries, notably the usa and canada, which continue to maintain visa requirements for certain eu member states.
in writing. as regards the resolution we voted on today on the agreement to be concluded between the european union and the federative republic of brazil on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of a common passport, the majority of us believe that the same should apply to holders of diplomatic, service or official passports. reciprocity in this type of agreement is fundamental and important if we are to ensure that such exemptions are not restricted by administrative or bureaucratic requirements which may jeopardize the legitimate expectations of citizens. brazil is an increasingly important partner of the european union, with which it shares a common history and language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. − brazilian citizens, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 539/2001, can travel to all eu member states without a visa and provided that the stays are short. however, not all people from the european union enjoy the same privileges. this situation concerns nationals of the following countries: estonia, cyprus, malta and latvia, and therefore the principle of reciprocity is not respected. in 2008, the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to negotiate an agreement between the eu and brazil to end the breaches of the principle of reciprocity. in order to speed up procedures and not delay its entry into force, the contracting parties decided to establish two agreements: one for holders of a common passport and the other for holders of a diplomatic passport (this does not require ratification by the brazilian congress). i therefore welcome this initiative which seeks to guarantee equal treatment for all citizens of the european union, in full respect of the principle of reciprocity.
in writing. - brazil is on the so-called positive list of countries whose citizens are exempt from having to apply for a visa when crossing the external borders of the european union. in accordance with the principle of reciprocity underlying this regulation, all eu citizens should enjoy a similar right when travelling to brazil. until now, the principle of reciprocity has been put into practice through bilateral visa waiver agreements concluded between brazil and individual member states. however, four eu countries - estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus - have not signed such agreements. therefore, its citizens are still required to hold a visa to travel to brazil, which violates the principle of reciprocity. the eu-brazil visa waiver agreement, which does not replace other bilateral agreements signed with several member states, now covers travel for tourist and business purposes by holders of diplomatic, service or official passports.
in writing. − all eu citizens who want to travel to brazil for tourism and business purposes will not need a visa for stays of up to three months, just as brazilian citizens can already travel visa-free to all eu countries, according to the agreement now approved by the european parliament. this agreement will mainly benefit the citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, who still needed a visa to enter brazil. this agreement concerns holders of diplomatic, service and official passports. with the approval of this agreement, all eu citizens - including citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, who were still required to have a visa by brazil - will be able to enter the country without a visa for tourism and business purposes, just as brazilian citizens can now travel without a visa to all eu member states. the duration of the stay is limited to three months, and for a period of six months in the schengen area.
in writing. − in accordance with the lisbon treaty, the common visa policy towards third countries is the exclusive competence of the eu. only the eu, and not individual member states, may negotiate and conclude a visa waiver agreement with brazil. this was not the case until the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this report analyses the eu-brazil agreement on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports. the agreement was formally signed on behalf of the union and brazil in brussels on 8 november 2010. this visa waiver agreement does not replace other bilateral agreements signed with several member states, but complements them. however, the agreement concluded by the union shall prevail over bilateral agreements in the areas covered by them, in particular travel for tourism and business purposes. i welcome the reciprocity clauses between brazilian nationals and eu citizens and the guarantee of equal treatment for all eu citizens. it is envisaged that brazil and the eu may only suspend or terminate the agreement in respect of all member states. i voted in favour of all of this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-brazil agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports, in order to ensure that, in accordance with the requirements of the principle of reciprocity and the principle of equal treatment, all eu citizens holding diplomatic, service or official passports - including citizens of estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus, who until now still required a visa to enter brazilian territory - can travel without a visa to brazil for tourist and professional purposes, just as brazilian citizens can now travel without a visa to all eu member states.
in writing. - brazil is on the positive list of countries whose citizens are exempt from the visa requirement when entering the external borders of the european union. so far, this policy of reciprocity has been carried out by bilateral agreements between brazil and the member states. however, estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus have not concluded any agreements and their citizens are not exempt from visas. this agreement aims at visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic, service or official passports and has the same object and scope as the agreement on common passport holders. however, due to brazilian legislation, the agreement on diplomatic passport holders does not require ratification by the brazilian congress and will therefore enter into force more quickly. the two agreements do not replace the bilateral agreements concluded between the member states and brazil, but only complement them. i think it is important that this reciprocity in visa waiver agreements should be applied to other third countries in order to eliminate the existing discrimination, particularly with regard to the united states of america and canada.
in writing. - i approve this report as i recognise the potential of the internal market services directive for better integration of the economy, and also consider that the implementation of the directive can consolidate the mutually reinforcing relationship between the internal market and cohesion policy. to achieve this, greater transparency in the provision of information to citizens and businesses is needed. the conditions for non-application of the country of origin principle in certain matters or activities should be specified, in particular as regards different legislation under other community instruments and the set of guarantees which the sending state must grant to posted workers. this matter provoked a long debate and prevented the directive from being applied in advance. i am afraid that the implementation of this directive at regional and local level may be counter to the measures of deregulation and prevent attempts to simplify administrative procedures, especially since the implementation of this directive may involve additional resources, and the contribution of the structural funds and other instruments to compensate for this is essential during the transitional period. i would therefore call for greater coherence and coordination between all policies.
in writing. − the services directive in the internal market, adopted in december 2006, is a response to the principle of free movement, aiming to create a common market for services within the european union. although adopted in 2006, this evaluation of its implementation revealed some delays in its implementation in some member states, both for legislative and technical reasons, as different legislative instruments were needed for its proper implementation. a fully functioning single market in services is essential to europe's economic recovery, accounting for over 70% of jobs and net job creation in the single market. the eu-wide gains could total between eur 60 and 140 billion, representing a potential growth of between 0.6% and 1.4% of gdp. i therefore support this report on the application of the services directive because i consider it important to evaluate the application of the directives, taking into account that these evaluations may reveal some existing shortcomings in the application of the directives and thus make it possible to correct them.
in writing. − the services directive is a key instrument for the growth of the european union, allowing selfemployed people and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to carry out their activities in other member states much more easily, and to develop new sectors of activity and recruit staff there. these activities account for 40% of gdp and employment in the european union and are a key sector for economic growth and the fight against unemployment. it is important to strengthen the enormous potential for economic development and job creation that the european internal market in services holds, as it is an essential step towards a genuine internal market in services, which should enable businesses, in particular smes, to provide citizens with better quality services at competitive prices throughout the internal market. i hope that the objectives of the directive can begin to be achieved in the near future and that the whole of the eu and its regions can benefit from this, thus contributing to genuine economic, social and territorial cohesion through the creation of decent, lasting and quality jobs, as well as in terms of improving the quality and safety of the services provided.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the implementation of the services directive by the member states has been partial and limited so far. although this directive is one of the most important european laws aimed at opening up the services sector to free movement in the european union, there is still a long way to go. it is necessary to ensure that this legislation, adopted more than three years ago, is properly applied, in particular by the effective creation of contact points to which any citizen wishing to sell services in another country can turn to obtain the necessary information.
in writing. − directive 2006/123/ec on services in the internal market aims to open the market to service providers in the european union, to remove protectionist restrictions on the exercise of the activity of providing services, and to comply with the principle of free movement, with a view to achieving a genuine internal market for the sector. the services sector accounts for 40% of gdp and employment in the union and has enormous potential for growth and job creation, particularly in smes. the deadline for implementation of the directive expired at the end of 2009, but some deviations from its correct and effective implementation by some member states still remain. only 22 states have the online portal with all the necessary administrative information in operation, and of these 22 only 14 states have the necessary procedures available electronically. it is necessary to ensure and monitor the correct application of this directive by the member states, with a view to eliminating arbitrary obstacles and/or making the rules which continue to exist in the member states proportionate and non-discriminatory in nature.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution on the implementation of directive 2006/123/ec on services in the internal market. the principle of free movement of persons and goods throughout the european union is enshrined in all the treaties and is intended to underpin the creation of the common market. with the aim of breaking down the bureaucracy that restricted the activity of providing services in the member states, directive 2006/123/ec was adopted. however, it is noted that not all member states are implementing this directive because of certain aspects which they consider to be not sufficiently clarified. that is why this resolution is so important. i welcome the creation of a rapid and effective means of responding to requests from employers and workers' representatives, such as one-stop shops, and i hope that they will not be limited to the electronic format but will also include a personal service, as we know how important this is when we are in a foreign country.
in writing. we voted against this report in line with all our previous positions on the infamous bolkestein directive and its unacceptable aims of facilitating the liberalisation of services, including public services, in order to promote the interests of the economic and financial groups in the european union at the expense of worsening unemployment and poorer services for their users, as is already clearly visible today in sectors which have embarked on this path. the report aims to put pressure on the member states which have not made as rapid progress as most meps would like, by protecting the interests of european economic groups, in transposing the directive on services in the internal market (2006/123/ec), which entered into force on 28 december 2006, with the aim, as stated in the report itself, of opening up the market to service providers in the european union, removing protectionist restrictions on the exercise of the activity of providing services in the member states and complying with the principle of free movement, which is the basis of the common market. what was needed was an objective assessment of the consequences of the implementation of liberalization and subsequent privatisation of services, in some cases of essential public services, in order to resume the uncompromising defence of the rights of the population and workers.
in writing. − directive 2006/123/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 on services in the internal market aims to remove the remaining obstacles to the crossborder provision of services. after some difficulties in transposing the directive due to doubts in some member states, the guidelines for this procedure, which are designed to simplify coordination between member states in the areas of consumer protection, environmental protection, safety and public health, will finally be put into practice in all member states, and this report will contribute to an even more effective implementation and better operability of the measures presented. hence my vote.
in writing. the services directive aims to contribute to the completion of the internal market in services, while ensuring high levels of quality and social cohesion. it is an instrument to serve the eu's growth purpose and its implementation is part of the strategy 2020 framework and the single market act. the transposition of the services directive is a major challenge for member states, public administrations and local authorities, both in terms of the rules on the right of establishment and the provision of services and in terms of the creation of one-stop shops for service providers, especially smes. this directive makes it much easier for selfemployed people and smes in particular to carry on their activities in other member states, to develop new sectors of activity and to recruit staff. i voted in favour because i am convinced that the internal market information system and the single points of sale, by requiring a great deal of administrative cooperation between all the authorities involved, will lead to greater interoperability and the creation of networks at national, regional and local level throughout the eu, thus bringing the outermost regions closer to a genuine internal market.
in writing. − directive 2006/123/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 12 december 2006 on services in the internal market (the 'services' directive) aims to open up the market to service providers in the european union, to remove protectionist restrictions on the exercise of the activity of providing services in the member states and to comply with the principle of free movement, which forms the basis of the common market. it is an important instrument towards a genuine internal market in services, which aims to enable businesses, in particular smes, to provide better quality services at competitive prices throughout the eu, contributing to the promotion of prosperity and competitiveness as well as to job creation. the rapporteur rightly points out that it is therefore essential to ensure that they are properly transposed and applied by the member states, which must ensure that bureaucratic obstacles are removed and that employers have access to the relevant information, in particular by promoting the creation of one-stop shops.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering the compromise to be satisfactory and balanced, as it succeeds in safeguarding passenger rights without at the same time imposing a heavy burden on carriers, many of whom are smes. the european parliament has therefore succeeded in changing the scope of the 500 km, which the council advocated, to 250 km, and in respecting passenger rights, with particular emphasis on persons with reduced mobility. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant the right to vote to the european parliament and to the council in the event of a vote being taken by the european parliament.
in writing. - given that the transport sector is constantly expanding, it has become essential to ensure that bus transport, which grew by more than 5% and recorded an annual volume of 72.8 million passengers, also enjoys eu-wide passenger protection rights comparable to those applied to other modes of transport. it is also important to ensure a level playing field in terms of competition between transport undertakings in the different member states and between the various modes of transport. i therefore consider it important that an agreement has been reached after almost two years of negotiations which will enable this type of passenger to enjoy a whole range of rights, including assistance in the event of accidents, delays, cancellations, refunds, etc., while paying particular attention to the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. i support this compromise which i consider to be quite satisfactory and balanced, since it succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without at the same time imposing a heavy burden on the carriers, who are in most cases smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on passenger rights in bus transport, because they are recognised as having rights comparable to those of passengers in other modes of transport. the new regulation contains important provisions, in particular on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, and on passengers' rights in the event of cancellation or delay.
in writing. − whatever the means of transport used, passengers have the right to a quality and safe service, which is why i welcome the intention to introduce harmonised standards on passenger rights in bus transport throughout the eu. i also believe that passengers' rights should be generally the same, whatever the means of transport used, except where this is incompatible with the characteristics of the transport in question. finally, i congratulate mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, mr simpson, the rapporteur and the others involved in the negotiations in the conciliation committee on the work done and the agreement reached on the final version of this regulation.
in writing. - this report concerns a joint draft adopted by the conciliation committee of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the fundamental rights of passengers using bus and coach transport. first of all, i would like to congratulate the conciliation committee on the work it has done and on the consensus it has reached. in fact, out of the three rights initially identified by the council, it was possible to reach twelve, among which i would highlight the rules on liability, compensation, assistance, alternative transport and special attention to passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility. i therefore welcome this step by the european union which i am sure will increase the number of passengers travelling by bus because of the sense of safety and comfort it brings, which will contribute significantly to reducing co2 emissions.
in writing. − the agreement on passenger rights in bus and coach transport, reached by the european parliament and the council in the conciliation committee, redefines the scope of the regulation established during the second reading, restricting it to passengers using so-called long-distance road services defining them as those involving a journey of 250 km or more. at the same time, it sets out 12 fundamental rights for short-distance passengers, focusing on the needs of people with disabilities and reduced mobility, such as compensation for loss of or damage to wheelchairs and other mobility equipment, non-discriminatory tickets and contractual conditions and rights of information. these are proposals which we naturally value. we cannot, however, fail to express some doubts about the amendments introduced in the conciliation committee and the criteria used for the application of the regulation. the different sizes and characteristics of eu countries may make the regulation difficult to apply in some of them, especially the smaller ones, with many trips hardly falling within the accepted concept of long-distance travel and consequently their passengers being deprived of the rights in question without satisfactory justification.
in writing. - so far, only air, rail and sea passengers are covered by specific legislation. from now on, passengers on buses will also have their rights protected. passengers travelling by bus will thus have rights comparable to those of passengers using other modes of transport. the regulation we have adopted today provides for assistance and compensation to passengers in the event of accidents, cancellations or delays and non-discriminatory access for disabled persons. the new rules apply to all scheduled services, whether national or crossborder, with a route of at least 250 km. this is therefore an important step forward in the defence of citizens' rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on passenger rights in bus transport. i welcome the fact that the final text is a good and balanced compromise, since it succeeds in guaranteeing the rights of passengers without at the same time imposing a heavy burden on the carriers, many of whom are small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission's proposal to introduce at european union level passenger protection rights comparable to those applicable to other modes of transport and to ensure a level playing field between transport companies in the different member states and between the various modes of transport is a measure which can benefit everyone. the negotiations were long and ended in a conciliation process, the main deadlock being the national implementing bodies and the scope of the directive. finally, the certificate will apply to all scheduled, national or cross-border services, provided that the distance covered by the service is equal to or greater than 250 km ('long distance'). the certificate also covers compensation and assistance in the event of an accident; passenger rights in the event of cancellation or delay; and rights of disabled persons and/or persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i considered that the final text of the regulation, adopted in the conciliation committee, represents a balanced compromise which ensures adequate protection for passengers transported by bus, by recognising an important set of rights, in particular in the event of an accident, cancellation or delay, in terms of access to information and the submission and handling of complaints, as well as in terms of the needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. the european commission's proposal is aimed primarily at giving bus passengers the same rights as other modes of transport and ensuring a level playing field between transport companies in the different member states and the different modes of transport. despite the differences in the procedure, i welcome the adoption of this regulation, which will safeguard the rights of bus passengers without, however, creating too much burden for small and mediumsized enterprises operating in this sector. this regulation lays down a set of essential rights, of which i would highlight the special attention paid to persons with reduced mobility and persons with disabilities, the right to compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, cancellation or delay. these duties apply to all regular, national and cross-border transport provided that the distance covered is equal to or greater than 250 km. however, passengers who undertake part of these long-distance journeys are also covered. a number of rights for passengers on short-haul scheduled services have also been established, including non-discriminatory access to transport and the right to information during the journey.
in writing. − given that the average reduction in co2 emissions for light commercial vehicles in the period 2002-2007 was only 0.4-0.5% per year and that community targets for new light commercial vehicles are necessary to avoid fragmentation in the internal market, i am voting in favour of this proposal. it should be noted, however, that light commercial vehicles cannot be compared with passenger cars and that the 150 g co2/km proposal is ambitious but feasible. i also agree with the possibility for manufacturers to form groups between passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, as it is proven to reduce manufacturers' compliance costs, increasing employment in a greener economy, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. i also agree that this issue should be addressed in several phases by 2011, and not just in 2014 as the commission proposes.
in writing. − the sustainable development strategy focuses on the most pressing sustainable development issues, such as transport, climate change, public health and energy conservation. the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the union and its emissions, including those from light commercial vehicles, continue to increase. if emissions from this sector continue to increase, this increase will significantly undermine efforts by other sectors to combat climate change. it is important to advance technologically, to promote eco-innovation, taking into account future technological developments, in order to increase the long-term competitiveness of the european automotive industry and to create more quality jobs. in recognition of the high costs of research and development and in order to increase the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, incentive schemes such as compensation for eco-innovations and the granting of supercredits should be applied.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles, which follows the community strategy to reduce emissions from light vehicles. the report includes measures such as super credits for clean and low-emission vehicles, fines for non-compliance with limit values and incentives for eco-innovation, which will help manufacturers develop new, greener technologies, which is beneficial for eu competitiveness and job creation.
in writing. − at a time when the debate on co2 emissions has become inevitable, and is at the heart of the climate change debate, it is important that solutions are found to the necessary reduction of emissions from light commercial vehicles. the adoption of community targets for new light commercial vehicles is intended to avoid fragmentation in the internal market resulting from the adoption of different measures at member state level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. − the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the european union and its emissions are continuing to increase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from road transport. the greenhouse gas reduction target will be more easily achieved if there is community-wide legislation rather than national legislation with different objectives. in addition, we will have greater security and legal certainty for the car manufacturing sector. however, we must combine ambition with realism and common sense. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's transport policy. i therefore agree with the target of 147 g co2/km emissions for new light commercial vehicles registered in the union, and provided that the feasibility of this option is confirmed. i am also pleased that no single european speed limit has been introduced for this type of vehicle.
in writing. − we are in favour of the development and application of technologies that reduce the consumption of fossil fuels and, consequently, the levels of emissions of gases into the atmosphere from the combustion of these fuels. for reasons of environmental quality, public health and welfare, and for reasons connected with the progressive and inexorable shortage of fossil fuel reserves worldwide, which requires great wisdom and thrift in their management. this is also inseparable from the need to invest in means of transport which do not depend on this form of energy, such as rail transport, and which must be developed. in this particular case, we believe that the emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles should not ignore either the diversity of car manufacturers or the legitimate interests and needs of small and mediumsized enterprises in the different member states. the discussion of this dossier has shown that there are various possibilities for limiting vehicle emissions, with inherent investment costs and also different application horizons, which should be carefully evaluated; these different possibilities include the introduction of speed limiters in vehicles, which in addition to reducing emissions can also have positive implications for road safety.
in writing. - two years ago, legislation was passed on passenger car emissions. it is now time for the european parliament to approve the introduction of co2 emission limits for new light commercial vehicles. these vehicles are mainly used by businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises, and currently account for about 12% of the car fleet. in addition to contributing to better air quality and to the achievement of eu climate objectives, vehicles should provide greater energy savings for the small businesses that depend on them. the objectives set are designed to encourage innovation in industry. the regulation sets a target of 175 g co2/km to be applied in 2014, which should be progressively reduced to 147 g co2/km by 2020. the penalties applicable to trade marks which fail to comply with this regulation shall be strictly observed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on new legislation to set emission performance standards for new light commercial vehicles as part of the community's integrated approach to reducing co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles. i based my decision on the various data presented in the various documents which informed the proceedings, in particular the fact that these vehicles currently account for about 12% of the car fleet. it is necessary to set co2 emission standards for new light commercial vehicles to avoid regulatory loopholes and it is important to encourage the automotive sector to invest in new technologies. i agree with the rapporteur when he stresses the need for the light commercial vehicle sector to follow the example of the passenger car sector which is striving to reduce co2 emissions. however, changes in these vehicles are not in their shape or weight but in the engine and mechanics, unlike passenger cars, which makes the process more time consuming and costly. however, it is important to encourage this technological advance for the benefit of all.
in writing. − the conclusion of the sustainable development strategy, initiated by the commission, emphasises the most urgent problems of sustainable development, in particular energy efficiency measures in transport. with a view to combating climate change in terms of co2 emissions and increasing the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, this regulation aims to establish incentive schemes, in particular the granting of supercredits and compensation for eco-innovations, as well as fewer criminal penalties. the agreement reached by the european parliament on this subject is ambitious but at the same time achievable. the community's short-term and phased target is 175 g co2/km to be achieved in 2017 and the long-term target is 147 g co2/km by 2020. at the same time, it provides super credits for vehicles that meet the efficiency criteria and imposes reasonable penalties when co2 emission ceilings are exceeded. i believe that the adoption of this regulation is part of the european union's environmental sustainability policies and, at the same time, protects producers, mostly small and mediumsized enterprises, users and promotes innovation in the sector.
in writing. − having regard to the long development of this issue, which began with the commission proposal for a regulation in 2000, the subsequent adoption by the ep in 2002, the initial results of serious difficulties in the acceptance of the proposal by the member states, the council conclusions of 2009, the failure to transpose its position, the insurmountable difficulties in the negotiating rounds in december 2010 and the consequent commitment by a minimum number of member states to establish enhanced cooperation in this area, although it is not the exclusive competence of the union, i approve this recommendation. i agree with this proposal for a regulation, because the lack of unitary patent protection throughout the eu can lead to a fragmented, complex and costly patent system. once all the requirements are met, they will only bring advantages to the internal market.
in writing. - a european patent system is a necessity. the existence of different interpretations and different decisions in each member state causes legal uncertainty. the compulsory translation of each patent application into the 23 official languages is expensive, time-consuming and creates a competitive deficit. so, in general, the overwhelming majority of those concerned, including business associations, agreed with the english-only option. the proposal under discussion distinguishes between three languages (english, french and german) and puts all the other languages in a subordinate position. in terms of its impact on the world, portuguese is a much more important language than french or german. i also have serious reservations about the possibility of using enhanced cooperation in this case. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. that is why i am against the lehne report.
in writing. − the creation of a european patent will stimulate innovation and scientific and technological development in the eu. i think it is essential to resolve the question of the european patent. however, i have reservations about the language regime to be introduced. in my opinion, the best solution would be to use only english, but if the language regime is extended to other languages then portuguese should be included. the competition is global and portuguese is the third most spoken language among western languages, after english and spanish.
in writing. - a european patent system is a necessity. the existence of different interpretations and different decisions in each member state causes legal uncertainty. the compulsory translation of each patent application into the 23 official languages is expensive, time-consuming and creates a competitive deficit. so, in general, the overwhelming majority of those concerned, including business associations, agreed with the english-only option. the proposal under discussion distinguishes between three languages (english, french and german) and puts all the other languages in a subordinate position. in terms of its impact on the world, portuguese is a much more important language than french or german. i also have serious reservations about the feasibility of using enhanced cooperation in this case. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. that is why i am against the lehne report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament legislative resolution because i agree with its content, but regret the absence of the portuguese language in the european patent system.
in writing. − the existence of legislation within the eu protecting patents is essential for the protection of intellectual property rights. we will be able to have uniform protection in the territories of the participating member states, as well as reducing costs and simplifying administrative procedures. i would remind you that the cost of registering a patent in europe is currently about ten times that of a japanese or american patent. this is a way of encouraging innovation and scientific research and at the same time improving the internal market. according to commissioner barnier, only spain and italy have not expressed an interest in such enhanced cooperation. however, there are some legal doubts about the applicability of the enhanced cooperation procedure to the specific case. in fact, under article 328 (1) tfeu, when enhanced cooperation is established, it is open to all member states, provided that the conditions for participation, if any, laid down in the authorisation decision are respected. they shall also be open at any other time, provided that, in addition to the conditions referred to above, the acts already adopted in this context are complied with. i would remind you that in this enhanced cooperation there will be only one language regime for three languages: english, french and german.
in writing. - we voted against this report for three main reasons. it is unacceptable for the european parliament to support a proposal for enhanced cooperation in the area of so-called unitary patents, since it is only intended to undermine the rights of the member states to defend their interests, only to benefit the most powerful countries. this is the second time that the principle of enhanced cooperation laid down in the treaty of lisbon has been used. it's becoming clear what the purpose of your inclusion is. it is unacceptable that the states which are members of the union should be pressured in this way, but they do not accept the conditions which the majority wants to impose on them, particularly in such sensitive areas as linguistics, since the agreement envisaged calls into question the language of the majority of countries. finally, just a final note to reaffirm the positions that pcp members of the european parliament have always taken in the uncompromising defence of the portuguese language.
in writing. - the adoption of this report, which aims to establish enhanced cooperation in the field of patent registration and protection, risks imposing a language regime restricted to three languages only - english, german and french - and leaving each member state with the requirement to translate the patent into its national language. although the purpose of creating the european union patent is positive in that it would help to stimulate and promote innovation in europe, i believe that it cannot be pursued in violation of fundamental principles of european citizenship itself, in breaking community cohesion and the internal market, or in introducing new factors of discrimination, inequality and imbalance. the portuguese language the third european language of universal communication will be inexplicably discriminated against by the establishment of this enhanced cooperation. hence my vote.
in writing. - i am in favour of a european patent system, but for linguistic reasons and after reflection i abstained from voting on this report. i would have voted in favour if only the english language had been provided for, which today functions as a lingua franca. and i did so for three main reasons: first, because creating a patent system with mandatory translation of each application into the 23 official languages would be a costly, time-consuming process and would create a serious competitive deficit; second, because english is in fact now commonly used as a lingua franca; and third, because 90% of patent applications are filed in english. i cannot agree that french and german should be included in this procedure to the detriment of more widely spoken languages such as portuguese or spanish (as if there were languages with different statuses in the eu, which i reject) and so i abstained, thinking that it is urgent to move forward with a european patent system but the best solution would be a single language, english.
in writing. - i abstained from this vote because, although i believe that it is essential to improve the patent system in europe, in particular by creating a unitary patent and a european and eu patent court, which will overcome the difficulties for smes caused by the fragmentation of the current system, characterised by high costs and excessive complexity, i also understand the reservations expressed by some countries regarding the provisions on the translation of the community patent. i am therefore not opposed to the initiation of enhanced cooperation in this area, although i do not think that this is the most desirable and definitive solution to the problem.
in writing. − the absence of unitary patent protection throughout europe places european companies in a clear competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis their american and japanese counterparts. in fact, patent costs in europe are about 10 times higher than patent costs in the us and japan, which is mainly due to the burden of translating patents into the languages of the various eu countries. in this context, i consider it essential that, in the name of strengthening the competitiveness of portuguese and european industry, rapid progress be made towards the creation of a unitary patent protection system, which is less onerous and complex, and which can act as a stimulus to innovation and scientific and technological development in portugal and the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution. i cannot, however, fail to regret the choice made as regards the language arrangements. in fact, there are strong arguments against the current three-language solution - english, german and french - and i think it would have been preferable to have opted for the english-only system.
in writing. − the creation of a unitary european patent within the european union will bring benefits to all users involved and above all to smes, as it will contribute to their competitiveness by reducing costs. the issue, which dates back two decades, requires unanimity within the council for the determination of the language regimes applicable to intellectual property rights in the european union. in this connection, and considering that the creation of unitary patent protection is not included in the list of areas of exclusive competence of the european union, this recommendation concerns the possibility of enhanced cooperation in this field. although at this stage of the procedure it is only a question of the consent of the european parliament to the method of decision in this matter, which i vote in favour of, soon this house will also be called upon to give its opinion on the controversial language regime and on the two regulations to be drawn up on the rules of the european patent system.
in writing. - whereas the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the council and the commission has concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question does not contain substantive amendments other than those identified as such and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts together with the amendments introduced, the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing acts without substantive changes, i approve this report. i agree with the guarantee of a high level of health protection for european citizens in the event of radioactive contamination and with the democratic legitimacy of the adoption of this regulation, since the legal basis must be adapted to the new lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on radioactive contamination of foodstuffs, which sets maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of foodstuffs and animal feedingstuffs following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency. the main objective of the regulation is therefore the protection of public health and the legal basis should therefore be article 168 tfeu.
in writing. - the aim of this proposal is to ensure a high level of health protection for european citizens in the event of radioactive contamination and to give democratic legitimacy to the adoption of this regulation. it is true that its legal basis must be adapted to the new lisbon treaty, so as to give the european parliament a role in deciding on a regulation which potentially affects the health of the population. the proposal consists essentially of a codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990 which set the levels of radioactive contamination tolerated in the event of a radiological emergency.
in writing. - everyone has the right to a healthy diet. this is an unquestionable right and a sine qua non condition for achieving the quality of life we all want and which the lisbon treaty reflects. after the chernobyl disaster (1986), the question of radioactive contamination of the environment gained importance and justified the adoption of three regulations between 1987 and 1990 defining the maximum levels of contamination tolerated in the event of a radiological emergency or a nuclear accident, since these effects are prolonged in time and often indirect (forest contamination). although the proposal essentially consists of a codification of the unchanged provisions of the above-mentioned regulations, i am voting in favour of this report on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) as it concerns the guarantee that the health of european citizens will maintain a high level of protection.
in writing. - the proposal consists essentially of a codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990 which set the levels of radioactive contamination tolerated in the event of a radiological emergency. however, the insertion of a new recital explaining the need for an existing article, reserving the exercise of implementing powers to the council, implies a substantial change which justifies the use of the recasting technique. the content of the regulation consists of a two-tiered intervention mechanism in the event of a radiological emergency or nuclear accident which the commission proposes: immediate adoption by the commission of an ad hoc regulation to apply to a specific case, in a specific area and for a limited period of validity, the maximum tolerated levels of radioactive contamination specified in annexes i and iii to the proposal; set a deadline of one month after its adoption for a commission proposal to the council to adapt or confirm this ad hoc regulation. as the debate in the committee itself and in the alternative proposals it has put forward have shown, there is a certain guerrilla war of competence between the commission and the council. but what should be at the forefront should be serving the interests of citizens by better managing the situation after accidents, while respecting the competences of the member states concerned. hence our final vote of abstention.
in writing. the proposed regulation lays down the procedure for the establishment of maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed which may be placed on the market following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency which may cause or has caused significant radioactive contamination of food and feed. i believe that we must be alert and prepared for an emergency situation that may occur in europe. the speed of the current rules is an added value for the whole of the european union.
in writing. - the present report concerns a legislative proposal which consists essentially of a codification of the unchanged provisions of three regulations adopted between 1987 and 1990 following the chernobyl disaster (1986), at which time the question of radioactive contamination of the environment gained importance. these regulations set the levels of radioactive contamination that are tolerated in the event of a radiological emergency. the content of the regulation consists of a two-tiered intervention mechanism in the event of a radiological emergency or nuclear accident which the commission proposes: (a) immediate adoption by the commission of an ad hoc regulation to apply to a specific case, in a specific area and for a limited period of validity, the maximum tolerated levels of radioactive contamination specified in annexes i and iii to the proposal; (b) set a deadline of one month after its adoption for a proposal from the commission to the council to adapt or confirm this ad hoc regulation. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider the amendments proposed by the european parliament to be positive and to give the text a modern logic. since the main objective of the regulation is the protection of public health, i consider that the legal basis should be article 168 tfeu.
this debate has made it clear that the european commission is committed to continuing on the path started with the undemocratic way of adopting the so-called lisbon treaty. it is worth remembering that, after the french and dutch voters rejected the european constitution, the eu leaders did everything possible to avoid further referendums. and even when they had the first rejection in ireland, they used all the pressure they could to have a new referendum after a while. now, a few months after the new treaty has come into force, there are new attempts to change it quickly and without any public debate, for fear of the reaction of the citizens of the various member states of the european union, especially those who are suffering the consequences of increasingly neoliberal policies. they want to use the so-called 'simplified regime' to hide the fact that they are in fact amending an important issue linked to constitutionalisation, with the aim of transforming the european financial stability fund into a permanent fund, with the unacceptable conditions contained in the so-called competitiveness pact and its serious consequences for social policies: devaluation of wages and pensions and increase in the retirement age.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good one. in ben ali's tunisia, there was a law, which has not yet been repealed, that made it a crime to emigrate. so this is no longer just a frontex case, because we have to make sure that these people are not sent back to a tunisian prison and we have to convince the new government to repeal the law. but above all, i think it reveals a fundamental unrealism in our immigration policy, which is dependent on one person, and that person is not mrs malmström, nor mr barroso, it is mr gaddafi. if mr gaddafi falls, as i ardently wish he would, what do we do to our main buffer of north african and sub-saharan immigrants? it also reveals to us that we have, at this moment, from morocco to syria, a 5,000-kilometer line along which, at each of those kilometers, increased humanitarian risk, and that we have to prepare in a way that perhaps has no parallel in european history until 1956, in hungary, for a refugee crisis. this means ending the co-decision on resettlement, because we can have refugee camps on europe's borders if one of these revolutions goes wrong, which we hope it will not, and finally ending the building of asylum policies in europe and the solidarity-based relocation of asylum seekers within the countries of the european union.
mr president, notice something, i can argue with you why europe has not had an answer on the problems of immigration. i would say, mainly, because you've been looking for a police response to a problem that is social, economic and political. but my question concerns the question raised by my colleague, mr tavares. is it acceptable, in your view, that frontex or other operational means can repatriate tunisians when the law in tunisia still guarantees that repatriates will end up in prison? or do we first have to ensure that diplomatic action is taken to make this law void, so that we can then talk about other instruments like the ones i have just mentioned?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in this debate we must not forget that there is a proposal for a so-called competitiveness pact through which the german-led directorate wants to launch new attacks on the public solidarity and universal social security system, increase the retirement age and devalue wages, trying to end their indexation to the inflation rate just to benefit the financial sector, which wants to find in pensions new forms of greater speculative gains. we want to express our clear opposition to this path of european integration, built on the basis of anti-social policies which, unfortunately, this report covers, by supporting the european commission's green paper, by admitting a link between the legal retirement age and life expectancy and by encouraging people to stay longer on the labour market, and by not excluding support for private pension schemes even though we already know the serious consequences of their speculative use by private funds and banks which have left the elderly, particularly elderly women, in poverty. we therefore tabled an alternative resolution which shows that it is possible to improve pensions and pensions without raising the legal retirement age, provided there is more employment with rights, especially for young people, better wages, more taxation on the financial sector and financial transactions. we are against raising the retirement age and we are in favour of a pension system which is part of a public, supportive and universal social security system, which values the lowest pensions and pensions, which respects the elderly and allows them to live in dignity, and thus contributes to the eradication of poverty. this is what our citizens expect, the struggles we have had in portugal, in france, in greece, in so many other places.
the rapporteur. - having arrived here, at this moment and at the end of this long process, i think we know what unites us, all of us in this room, and what unites us is the defence of the health of patients. we have an obligation to protect the 500 million citizens living in europe who do not know whether the medicines they take are real medicines or fake medicines. we have to give them the assurance that the medicines these people are taking are medicines that help them save their lives and not help them to anticipate their death. i think this problem is too serious to go on any longer without solving it. that's why i've referred to counterfeit drugs many times as silent killers, because they are, because if people who have problems, and we know how counterfeiting networks have changed -- a few years ago everyone would talk about viagra -- today it's impossible not to talk about drugs that fight, that claim to fight diseases like cancer, diabetes, heart disease, cholesterol. so as i said, they're silent killers because if you don't fight these diseases, you're not helping people. this compromise that we're discussing here today is a compromise that makes up some of the changes that have been made along the way. we started in the market, we ended up in health (i welcome this shift towards health), we started in the physical space, we included the internet, we could not leave out the main gateway for counterfeit medicines in europe, we had only one control system, we associated it with sanctions and penalties. if we consider counterfeiting to be a crime, it cannot but have sanctions and penalties attached to it. but there is another element which is also important: it is not confined to the european area. we also ensure that third countries where counterfeiting is even more serious are taken into account in our proposal presented here today. we know that even though we only have randomized controls, since 2005, there's been a 400 percent increase in seizures of counterfeit medicines. we know that this business represents 45 billion euros a year in profits for some criminal networks, but at the total disadvantage of the health of citizens. that is why i want to make it very clear that counterfeiting medicines is not just any kind of counterfeiting because it is counterfeiting that totally undermines trust in health systems. and since counterfeiting is an organized crime, as i have already said, i think we have to fight it with this legislation, with our commitment, with our concerted action. so we've introduced a system of control that goes from the producer to the patient. that was a parliamentary fight, and i am very glad that it is secured here today. this process has gone through two commissioners and four presidencies. we started with the commissioner for industry, as i said, and we are now finishing with the commissioner for health. it is a long process and i would therefore like to leave a last word of special thanks to the rapporteurs from the other groups who have followed this process with commitment and dedication from start to finish. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. without them, it would not have been such an interesting and at the same time so productive discussion. i know that we have often shared different positions, but i know that our goal is the same, which is to protect the health of the patients. and since i cannot thank everyone involved, i leave my symbolic thanks to everyone who worked on this directive on behalf of nana pantazidou who has been very supportive of me throughout the whole process.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - i would like to begin by congratulating my fellow rapporteur, marisa matias, and all those who have worked with her. unfortunately, over the last few years we have seen an increase in the counterfeiting of medicines in europe. according to european union data, one and a half million boxes of counterfeit medicines are sold through the legal supply chain every year. this is criminal activity which poses a serious threat to european patients and to european industry. the purpose of this directive is to prevent the introduction of falsified medicinal products into the supply chain and thus to protect public health. i would like to highlight the following key points in my opinion: the introduction of the definition of counterfeit medicinal products, with a clear emphasis on consumer protection; the application of safety features to prescription medicinal products; the holding accountable of all actors in the distribution chain; and finally the application by the member states of effective sanctions to deter this criminal activity.
the problem of counterfeit medicines is clearly a serious threat to public health, whether prescription or over-the-counter medicines. without prejudice to the adoption of some important measures proposed in this report, i would like to draw attention to one essential point in this problem. as with other illicit activities, medicines are counterfeited because there are economic reasons that stimulate this activity. we must therefore attack the root causes that make medicine a colossal business, one of the biggest businesses in the world. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the marketing of medicinal products for human use.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to be part of this positive movement and this very interesting discussion. this in fact is the second pillar of the pharma package that we are delivering and the third pillar, that of information to patients, has already had a very good report here in parliament. i hope that we will be pushing this quite aggressively during the coming months. as you have said, and i agree, the emphasis is on protection of consumers. this is what the division should be in actions like the one we are taking today. a lot of work has been done. a lot of work still needs to be done to develop the details to make this directive operational. but even after that we cannot rest on our laurels, happy that we have a nice piece of legislation that has a lot of technical details that are very avant-garde. we have to inform our citizens of what it means, and how they can utilise the tools that we are giving them with this directive so that they do not succumb to the pitfall of being drawn into purchasing falsified medicines. we will do everything in our power to ensure proper traceability. inspections in third countries are important. we have to realise, however, that, for example, 80% of the ingredients that we use in what we produce in the european pharma industry come from third countries. therefore we have to be pragmatic. we also have to be selective in the type of inspections that we do. there are third countries that have very high levels of inspection and standards and we naturally have to cooperate with these countries to ensure that these standards are being kept to. in other countries that are not as proficient as these, we have to go and see with our own eyes and touch with our own hands. this is the policy we have to push forward. i am looking forward to working with parliament in the next phases to make this work.
the rapporteur. - i would obviously like to thank all the comments made by all the colleagues. i will not comment on them one by one, that is not the intention. i think if there was any doubt about what the word commitment means, it was very clear here what commitment means. we don't all have the perfect proposal, but much more important than knowing whether the proposal is perfect is knowing that we have a tool in our hands that will allow us to no longer delay protecting the health of patients. we have an obligation not to postpone the actual action, and we can only do this together. i should also like to say personally, and the commissioner has referred to the question of inspections, that in my initial proposal i tabled an amendment for mandatory inspections in third countries. that is what commitment is all about, and yet you gain in some things and lose in others. we have been told by the commission that this would be impossible to achieve. i would like to make one further note of this commitment. i think we all agree with the commitment, but i also think and i am aware that we will all be demanding that it be fulfilled because otherwise it will not be effective. this commitment provides safeguards so that we can monitor the process, evaluate it and have systematic information to check whether it is being implemented or not, whether it is being implemented properly or not, and whether changes need to be made. i therefore want to end by thanking the european commission for its cooperation and in particular the spanish and belgian presidencies because we have worked together for the last six months. there are no perfect proposals, no perfect interventions, there are flaws, but i think we have a strong and robust commitment to enable us to fight and defend the health of patients. and since my speech is also full of flaws, i failed to thank my colleagues regina bastos and amália sartori for the opinions of the other committees. thank you very much for your support as well.
i would also like to say, mr president, that i welcome the work done by the honourable member and i fully support the issues that have been listed here. and i'm gonna do something that i haven't done yet, but i think it's worth doing. we have a series of documents that have a set of assumptions, all of them, and we rarely discuss them. it's like they're assumptions that don't deserve to be discussed. we have the oral question and we have a resolution which tells us several things, among them that conventional rural electrification programmes financed by the world bank have failed globally in the task of reaching the rural poor. we also see that there is a possible, putative, change in the world bank's energy strategy by mid-2011, but we also know that it is in the energy sectors that we can fight poverty in a very concrete way and help lift people out of poverty. we therefore call on the world bank to adopt a development approach that can maximise the benefits for the poor while at the same time combating climate change. we have also said that fossil fuel lending continues to play a predominant role in the world bank's overall energy portfolio and that we must abandon this predominance. we also have the promise that this predominance will cease to be a predominance by 2015 and that there will be a gradual reduction in funding for these fossil fuel-based projects. finally, we have a number of statements, particularly on the need for the world bank to give priority to access to local energy on a small scale. and many, many others, in view of climate change. i'm editing all the statements we've made. i leave you with two final questions, because it is not worth continuing with mere declarations of intent. the first question is, why don't we draw from this a conclusion as basic as this? why do we keep letting the paymaster run things? and why is the world bank still in charge of the world's energy strategy? when will we decide that the world energy strategy will be the subject of global coordination based on the united nations? the second question i leave here - and i apologize if i'm a little late - is: when do we stop imposing a development model, whether it's first or second generation, that is, whether it's first or second hand, on the rest of the world, as if it's a development model that should be applied to everyone? there's a limit to arrogance. we should be more democratic.
it is regrettable, madam president, that social problems continue to be the poor relation of community policies, that the social consequences of budgetary, financial and competition policies are systematically undervalued, that the neoliberal agenda is insisted upon, that almost 25 million unemployed people, some 30 million precarious and poorly paid workers, over 85 million people living in poverty are ignored, while the profits of economic and financial groups continue to rise. i therefore, madam president, hereby convey the cry of indignation which various social organizations have raised at the citizens' forum recently held by the european parliament in brussels. here is the indignation of the millions of workers, the unemployed, women and young people who continue to fight for this europe outside against such policies. it is time to break with the stability pact, the competitiveness pact and the like. you have to respect people and workers.
madam president, i would like to point out that it is essential, at a time when there is a serious sovereign and financial debt crisis, to focus on economic development on the basis of growth and growth strategies, and in particular to have an employment policy in this area. i believe that by having an employment policy we have solved not only an economic problem. we also solved a social problem. and so i wanted to leave here a message to a segment of employment that we have to be mindful of in strategy 2020. we are talking here - and we have been talking a lot this morning - about young people, but there is a sector of employment, a fundamental generational sector, which is that of those over 50 and therefore close to retirement. if we want to postpone the retirement age, if we want to create a more active society, we have to have a strategy for precarious workers, for disadvantaged workers over 50.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy is revealing its true agenda. the last european council confirmed it. more liberalization; market expansion into new areas; labour flexibility; unprecedented attacks on wages and social rights. the instruments for implementing this agenda are defined: the so-called economic governance and the recent pact for competitiveness, imposed by germany and france. in practice, they want to generalize and impose as a rule what is being imposed by the eu and the imf in several member states, under the perversely called aid plans, with devastating consequences on the economic and social level. the implementation of the measures now proposed hides the real causes of the difficult economic and social situation in countries such as portugal. worse, it would have particularly serious consequences for those countries and for the living conditions of their peoples. we are facing a very serious threat to the rights of workers and peoples in europe, which is taking the form of a revenge crusade against labour and social rights, seeking to level them down by attacking wages, raising the retirement age and eliminating restrictions on the movement of labour in the eu, thus creating the conditions for their devaluation and for an even greater flexibility of labour laws.
in writing. - in view of the worrying increase in counterfeit medicinal products, i approve this report. the commitment reached in the trilogue series during the belgian presidency has shown the importance of harmonising safety issues, in particular with regard to over-the-counter products and the conditions for removal and replacement of medicines by packagers, thus increasing transparency in the sector. the application of penalties has also enriched these measures, which are considered essential in the fight against counterfeit medicines in legal distribution networks.
in writing. - a reaction is urgently needed to the alarming increase in medicines that are falsified as to their identity, history or origin. these products usually contain low-quality or falsified substances, posing a serious threat to human and public health and leading to a lack of trust of patients also in the legal supply chain. these risks should be avoided by strengthening the verification requirements for manufacturers of medicinal products. the safety devices for medicinal products should also be harmonised in the union, allowing the authenticity and identification of each package to be verified and any falsifications to be proved, while ensuring the functioning of the internal market for medicinal products. the risk assessment should take into account aspects such as the price of medicinal products and the history of falsifications in the union and in third countries, as well as the consequences of falsifications for public health, depending on the specific characteristics of the products concerned and the severity of the disease to be treated. the security devices shall allow the verification of each pack of medicinal products supplied, irrespective of the mode of distribution used, including distance sales.
in writing. − the counterfeiting of medicines is an organised criminal activity which, like drug trafficking, endangers human lives. however, this type of criminal activity is not regulated in the same way, nor subject to the same level of sanctions as those normally applied to illicit acts associated with narcotics. the illegal production of medicines by copying their active products, or by simply omitting to do so, does not require large facilities or large investments. the profits are big and easy. the proceeds from the sale of counterfeit medicines in 2010 are estimated at eur 50.6 million, an increase of 95% compared to estimates made five years ago. this expansion is largely due to the lack of specific legislation in some countries, or the lack of the means or the will to implement it, and the fact that the level of sanctions envisaged does not have a genuine deterrent effect. i support the compromise reached by the rapporteur. it is balanced and puts the protection of patients first. this is a first step, although it leaves out important issues such as the fact that generic and non-prescription medicines are not covered by the application of safety devices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on falsified medicines, because it includes measures to combat the alarming increase in falsified medicines in the eu, such as safety devices to verify the authenticity of the product throughout the distribution chain, with a view to patient safety and the protection of public health. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's maritime borders. i also welcome the fact that the ep is advocating the need for medicines to be controlled on entry and exit from the eu and for the application of heavy sanctions, since these are criminal acts that endanger human lives.
in writing. - consumer safety is a matter of vital importance to me, especially when these consumers are also patients who look to the medicines used for a cure or at least a significant improvement in their health. such security is even more important when seeking to ensure the authenticity of medicinal products placed on the market, whether in the traditional market or in products marketed on the internet. that is why i think it is essential to adopt very clear rules on the counterfeiting of medicines, a growing phenomenon in europe (and the world), with dire consequences for consumer confidence, for businesses and, most importantly, for the health of those who use counterfeit medicines. i therefore support this report and congratulate mrs marisa matias on the work she has done and on all the commitments negotiated.
in writing. - the illegal trade in medicines has been compared to the illegal trade in weapons of war and drug trafficking. this is a scourge that affects millions of people worldwide, and it is a nightmare for anyone who has a duty to protect public health: someone who is sick, often with chronic or terminal illnesses, is taking something that is harmless or even harmful! we know that there are more and more counterfeit or falsified medicines in circulation, and their number is in the millions. it is imperative to combat organised crime and cross-border traffickers, and to put an end to the existence of parallel marketing channels, in particular on the internet. i therefore welcome the adoption of tamper-proof packaging and the creation of an early warning mechanism. i welcome the adoption of this directive by parliament and the council which, by tracing its entire path, will prevent the introduction of falsified and/or counterfeit medicines into the european union and will strengthen the protection of public health by improving the quality and safety of medicines consumed. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, marisa matias, my fellow citizen, on her work.
in writing. − this is a problem with serious effects on public health and the economies of the member states. the falsification of medicines and the alarming numbers of medicines entering the legal supply chain are concerns that need to be properly addressed and combated. without forgetting that medicines are only counterfeited and sold illegally because there are economic reasons that encourage this phenomenon, and the existence of generic medicines that are accessible to the populations at lower cost makes counterfeits less profitable. the report addresses the relevant issue of internet sales, part of the illegal supply chain. he refers to the importance of raising public awareness of the risks associated with the purchase of medicines through this channel. we stress the importance of enhancing cooperation and coordination between the competent national authorities, the european medicines agency (ema) and other international bodies with a view to exchanging information, increasing knowledge and understanding of the phenomenon and thereby improving the fight against it. we recall that this cooperation must also work in other areas, such as pharmacovigilance. there is a need for greater transparency in existing european structures such as the eea, with regard to the studies they carry out and their operation. we believe that the compromise reached is a positive step in the necessary fight against the problem.
in writing. − as this is a very serious problem affecting the public health of eu citizens, i consider it essential that new rules are put in place to protect patients from falsified medicines. on 23 april 2010, the european commission was therefore asked about a joint operation involving the 27 eu countries, called medi-fake, which at the time confiscated 34 million counterfeit tablets in just two months. that is why i have always advocated strong measures to combat this reality, in order to put an end to a business that represents 45 billion euros a year of profit for some criminal networks. hence my vote.
in writing. − this report is based on a commission proposal to prevent the introduction of counterfeit medicines into the supply chain by drawing attention to an issue of growing concern to european citizens: the quality and safety of the medicines they consume. the positive effect of this proposal is to encourage debate on a fundamental subject, with the ultimate aim of fighting against counterfeit medicines. in fact, counterfeiting medicines is a crime that deprives patients of the medical treatment they need and harms their health, possibly even leading to death. the main objective of the directive, as the rapporteur has said, should be to protect public health. this objective should be reflected in the legal basis of the directive. on the other hand, i think it is essential to safeguard the distribution network for medicinal products by establishing clear and precise definitions, not only of the scope of the directive but also of the different actors in the supply chain: traders, distributors, brokers; by defining roles and responsibilities. i voted in favour of this because i consider it essential that legislative action be taken in this area to deal with this growing threat to health and to better ensure patient safety.
in writing. − i support this resolution only because of the strong commitment by the commission to strengthen the financing instruments currently used to ensure that smes have more access to capital to finance their growth and innovation policies. one case that is relevant in the current economic crisis is the removal of the 'red tape' from existing eu support schemes. while approving the measures proposed in this resolution, i draw the commission's attention to moving forward with a more ambitious 'small business act' for the programming period after 2013. i would remind you that in the current economic climate, strong institutional and financial support for smes is more important than ever, since they are the backbone of the european economy and can only grow with adequate and sustainable financing tools.
in writing. − 23 million smes in the eu play a key role in economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. i regret the limited access to finance for smes, which has been aggravated by the current financial and economic crisis. the availability of credit lines and guarantee schemes is crucial to exploiting the growth and employment potential provided by smes. i welcome the creation of a new eu microfinance instrument for employment progress. support the implementation of the guarantee instruments under the competitiveness and innovation programme (cip), the risk sharing and financing facility of fp7 and the structural funds (jeremie), as well as the jasmine initiative, in support of microfinance institutions. i would, however, call on the commission to make the use of the structural funds easier and more flexible as regards the financing instruments for smes, i also call for increased funding for innovative financial instruments in the eu budget and for the development of simplified and less burdensome regulations and guidelines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of adapting the access of smes to european financing, which is an important means of their creation and growth, taking into account the effects of the current financial and economic crisis which has substantially worsened the access of these companies to public and private financing.
in writing. - there are some 23 million smes in the european union, and their weight in national economies and their growth potential for the labour market is undeniable. portugal is an example of this. some 300 000 smes represent more than 99% of all enterprises and are directly responsible for more than 2 million jobs and around €170 billion in turnover. with the recent economic crisis, its already limited financing capacity has been significantly aggravated, in particular by the increasingly restrictive credit conditions imposed by the banking sector. the operation of the sme financing arrangements is thus made permanent, in particular through an increased union budget allocation to the competitiveness and innovation programme of the structural funds and fp7. on the other hand, it is important to correct market inefficiencies and to gradually remove administrative barriers. the right measures must be taken in good time so that the national economies of the member states can achieve their growth potential and contribute to the growth of the labour market, enabling the development of the states and the consequent social cohesion.
in writing. − this european parliament resolution deals with practical issues on the review of eu instruments to support financing for small and medium-sized enterprises in the next programming period. at european level, the number of small enterprises has been increasing significantly in recent years. they already represent 99% of all businesses, are responsible for some 100 million jobs and make a crucial contribution to economic growth and social cohesion. despite this, their access to finance has been very difficult and has been aggravated by the current financial crisis in which the banking sector has introduced high levels of demand into its financing mechanisms. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution and hope that there will be a significant strengthening of the sme financing arrangements and a simplification of administrative procedures, in particular by reducing the number of programmes and improving the complementarity between national and eu programmes.
in writing. - this resolution is very contradictory in that, while it has some positive references to necessary measures to support smes, it covers and insists on the same kind of policies that are at the root of the problems affecting smes, namely the stability pact, financial market liberalisation and so-called free competition, which only serve to protect economic and financial groups that charge high prices in order to obtain ever-increasing profits, either in the granting of credit or in the cost of energy and other raw materials. what was needed was an effective change in community policies. it is time to put an end to the stability pact and its irrational criteria and to replace it with a genuine pact for employment and social progress, which encourages small-scale investment, gives micro-enterprises the opportunity to grow and, in particular, supports groups - for example, young entrepreneurs - who are having difficulty finding credit opportunities for their business ideas, and promotes employment with rights and the improvement of living conditions so that there is more purchasing power of the population.
in writing. - there are 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu, representing 99% of all businesses and more than 100 million jobs, making a key contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, being an important source of innovation and vital for maintaining and expanding employment. however, they have a poor access to finance, which is a major obstacle to their creation and growth, and the current financial and economic crisis aggravates the problem. a significant increase in funding for innovative financial instruments in the eu budget is therefore essential to meet the financial needs of smes in the light of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this resolution on practical aspects of the review of eu instruments to support sme financing in the next programming period is essential in the current context. in fact, the limited access of smes to finance constitutes a major obstacle to their creation and growth. the current financial and economic crisis has exacerbated the problem of access to finance for smes. if we consider that smes contribute to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation and are an important source of innovation and job expansion, we understand the importance of the proposed amendments to this legal framework, which aim to strengthen the functioning of the sme financing arrangements. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − smes in the european union are an essential element for economic growth and job creation, providing more than 100 million jobs and playing a crucial role in contributing to social cohesion. however, these companies have limited access to financial credit and loans, a situation which has been aggravated by the economic crisis and which is often complicated by administrative burdens. i am very much in favour of an attempt to improve the functioning of sme financing systems. in my view, this should be achieved by strengthening the importance of the eib's role in the lending scheme and also by implementing the instruments already in place within the competitiveness and innovation programme, the jeremie programme and the jasmine programme. i also support simplifying access to the structural funds for smes, particularly as regards guarantee schemes, avoiding duplication of effort. it will also be advisable to reflect on new effective financial instruments for the next multiannual financial framework, such as joint instruments with the european investment bank.
in writing. − the future of european citizens' pensions is one of the key challenges for the future of europe and i recognise the difficulties facing pension systems in the member states. however, i do not agree that the only way to solve the problem is to pay more, work more and retire less. i would also stress that the member states are primarily responsible for pensions, although the eu can add value by coordinating the various pension schemes and sharing best practices, as it also has competence in the area of pension portability and the supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (iorp directive). i only approve this report on the basis of the compromise based on more than 450 amendments, which include some of the main concerns for the white paper. i would also point out that a decent and sustainable pension system can only be achieved by tackling the precarious economy, low pay and low quality jobs. funded pensions should be based on solidarity and this should be reflected in eu standards.
in writing. − the issue of the sustainability of social security systems has been an inescapable topic on the european political agenda. increasing life expectancy, an ageing population, weak levels of economic growth, rising unemployment are factors which have contributed to the imbalance of social security systems. in the light of the current situation, decisions are needed to ensure the sustainability of social security schemes. i support this report because it advocates the need to build together a sustainable, secure system that provides adequate pensions at member state level. it recognises that free movement in europe cannot be limited to the benefits of the first pillar alone, but that mobility is indispensable for an operational and effective labour market. it advocates the creation of a european pension platform including representatives of the eu institutions, social partners and stakeholders, with a view to exchanging information on best practice and preparing policy initiatives, always respecting the principle of subsidiarity. it calls on the european commission to set up a specific working group on pensions.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has significantly aggravated the demographic challenge facing the eu, leading to an increase in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. the 75% employment rate target set in the eu 2020 strategy should help ensure the sustainability of pension schemes as it is linked to higher levels of employment, higher productivity and economic growth the holistic approach adopted in the green paper aims to give new impetus, both at national and eu level, to the establishment of sound, long-term adequate, sustainable and secure pension systems. smes are one of the main sources of employment and growth in the eu and make a significant contribution to the sustainability and adequacy of member states' pension systems. call for the development of sectoral, inter-sectoral and/or territorial funds that increase the membership of sme workers in pension schemes.
in writing. − while the member states are responsible for the provision of pensions, it is nevertheless important that there is coordination at european level for certain aspects. i am aware of the disparities between pension systems in europe. however, the need to develop a strategy to increase cohesion and consistency in the field of retirement pensions is clear, with full respect for the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity. this strategy must take account of the current economic and demographic situation, but also of the completion of the single market, since we must not forget that free movement in europe is a fundamental right of european citizens, which implies mobility of people and in particular of workers who should be able to benefit from an operational and effective labour market and from the guarantee that they will have access to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement. it is also important to provide citizens with adequate and continuous information on their pension rights, especially in relation to schemes relating to cross-border activities and mobility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the need for the eu and the member states to coordinate their different pension policies more appropriately and to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pension schemes for women and men. it is essential to individualise pension rights according to gender and to define specific criteria for the calculation of pensions for women in order to ensure economic independence for both men and women.
in writing. − the increase in average life expectancy, coupled with the reversal of the age pyramid in europe, poses important challenges to an ageing society which will have to ensure that its elderly have adequate living conditions and a role which, in many cases, can (and should) be active. however, faced with the real threat of the bankruptcy of traditional pension systems, states must take the necessary measures - not just raising the retirement age - to safeguard social security schemes in a bold and forward-looking manner. the emphasis should be placed on modernisation, with the possibility of mixed models, ensuring that those who now enter the system can freely choose the model they want for their old age protection.
in writing. - the current crisis has highlighted a problem that was once widely recognised as a serious one: the failure of social security systems. indeed, the imminent reversal of the age pyramid following demographic changes resulting from a longer life expectancy of the population is calling into question the financial sustainability of pension schemes. on the one hand, the number of unemployed is increasing; on the other hand, more resources are being consumed in paying for pensions. in addition, young people are entering the labour market increasingly late, not cooperating with the contribution system. because we do not want old age to be synonymous with poverty, we must create a guaranteed minimum pension that gives the elderly a quality of life. a measure that will help eradicate poverty and ensure that the elderly live in dignity. all these problems are reflected in the european commission's green paper on pensions. a set of coordinated policies at eu level is now required. i therefore fully agree with the conclusions of this report and welcome initiatives aimed at achieving intergenerational solidarity that will enable all pensioners to have a sustainable and dignified income.
in writing. we regret that the motion for an alternative resolution which we tabled was not adopted. in this way, the majority of members of the european parliament, including the socialist group, have taken the side of the anti-social policies which the commission and the council are pursuing, giving cover to the neoliberal path which they are pursuing and want to deepen. they have thus forgotten the struggles which workers have waged in various countries of the european union against the raising of the legal retirement age, in defence of a public, solidarity-based and universal social security system which values the lowest pensions and pensions, which respects the elderly and allows them to live in dignity, and which contributes to the eradication of poverty. as stated in the alternative resolution we tabled, it is possible to improve pensions and pensions without raising the legal age, provided there is more employment with rights, especially for young people, better wages, higher taxation on financial transactions. for example, recent studies show that a general financial transaction tax of 0.1% at eu level could provide an increase in annual revenues of around 2.1% of gdp, or around eur 262 billion.
in writing. - the serious problem of demographic change, i.e. the reversal of the age pyramid which we will soon be witnessing, together with the increasing life expectancy, thanks to which the elderly enjoy good health, remain active and participate longer in our society, force us to reflect on a strategy which will increase cohesion and coherence in the field of retirement pensions. in the face of the new reality, initiatives are needed to redefine the future of young and old, as well as solidarity between generations and individuals, thus contributing to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement.
in writing. − this report on adequate, sustainable and secure european pension schemes represents an important step in the implementation of a policy of coordination at european union level. although it is a matter for the member states, the pension system is directly linked to the financial market and is also one of the items in the stability and growth pact. for demographic reasons, which are well known, it is necessary to consider a strategy to increase cohesion and consistency in the field of retirement pensions. there is a need to create initiatives that redefine the future of young and old, as well as solidarity between generations and people, thus contributing to a sustainable, secure and adequate income after retirement. there are marked differences in europe between the various pension schemes, but it is important to create a common platform clearly defining the responsibilities of each. in this way, we can build together a sustainable, safe, modern system which recognises the freedom of movement in europe, which is part of the premise that mobility is indispensable, especially for the younger generations and, of course, for an operational and effective labour market. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. − i approve this resolution as i believe that croatia will be able to conclude the accession negotiations in the first half of 2011 provided that the necessary reforms continue to be pursued. this means that croatia needs to mobilise all efforts in this last phase in order to strengthen the public and judicial administration, make progress in the fight against corruption, ensure full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, continue the privatisation process and adopt the restructuring plans. i also approve this resolution because it recommends the entry into force of an arbitrary border agreement between croatia and slovenia and because of the progress made in resolving other bilateral disputes, such as the border issues with serbia, montenegro and bosnia-herzegovina. although croatia has yet to complete negotiations on six policy chapters of the acquis, i believe that the good results achieved in 2010 will serve as a basis for the croatian authorities to make the final efforts to complete the negotiations.
in writing. - i congratulate croatia on the progress made in meeting the benchmarks needed for the conclusion of accession negotiations. i am convinced that a swift accession of croatia will help to encourage the other western balkan countries to carry out accession-related reforms. i welcome the efforts made by the croatian government to oppose all forms of corruption, but i call on the croatian authorities to further strengthen the administrative capacity of the anti-corruption services and to foster a culture of political accountability. i welcome the progress made in the area of women's rights and gender equality, as some 25% of parliamentary seats, as well as almost half of administrative posts in the public sector, are held by women, which demonstrates progress towards gender equality. however, the percentage of women in management positions remains low and gender pay gaps persist. i call for more active promotion of women's participation in economic and political decision-making bodies and the swift implementation of the gender equality law, including the principle of equal pay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2010 follow-up report on croatia, as i believe that the negotiations for croatia's accession to the eu could be completed by june 2011, provided that the necessary reform efforts are pursued. i am in favour of enlargement, provided that the applicant countries meet the criteria laid down in advance. the more countries that join the european project, the better for the eu and its citizens, who will enjoy a single space of peace, freedom, democracy, progress and prosperity.
in writing. − croatia has been meeting the accession criteria with undeniable success and has made an effort to persist on this path, despite the additional difficulties posed by the present international situation. it is a good example for countries that want to join the european union. i cannot help but notice that, according to the latest polls, croats are suspicious of their country's future accession to the union and are critical of its action. i believe that rather than questioning the croats' opinion, their doubts deserve serious reflection on the way the european union has been run. i regret that the rapporteur has chosen in her draft resolution to express her views on issues such as sexual orientation and its constitutional protection, which are not only not at the heart of the issues in question, but should be the exclusive competence of the member states.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make decisions on the eu's external borders. i welcome the progress made in the accession negotiations, which may be concluded by the end of the first half of 2011, and all the efforts made by the european commission to ensure that the other western balkan countries also join the eu. i regret that the croatian parliament and government have not made as much progress as would be desirable in the constitutional amendments, particularly in the area of decentralisation and reform of the public administration - mainly by depoliticising it - in the fight against corruption and in the freedom of the press. i hope that all the problems mentioned in the report will be solved or at least reduced, so that accession can be speeded up and can act as a catalyst for the accession of neighbouring countries.
in writing. - on this report, it is important to note that most meps are not happy with the fact that, according to the eurobarometer, the majority of the croatian population believe that their country's accession to the eu would not benefit them. and what can you do to counter that idea? the answer, as always, is to increase the propaganda, seeking to manipulate the reality of what the eu is. the new neoliberal agenda of reducing state intervention in the economy, creating an open and competitive market, destroying public services, changing labour relations in favour of capital, under the pretext of its rigidity, renouncing sovereignty and an autonomous development project for croatia, is being insisted on. finally, the report makes it quite clear who benefited from nato's aggression and the dismantling of yugoslavia. croatia, because of its privileged location, is a very important transport corridor for the export and import markets of the east and the far east. it is clear that accession to the eu is not to promote the right of development of croatia and its people, but above all to benefit the great powers and their economic groups.
in writing. - the negotiations with croatia for eu accession may be concluded shortly. however, the necessary reforms must be pursued with determination. among these reforms, the most important are the strengthening of the public administration and the judiciary, the fight against corruption, support for the return of refugees, full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and the restructuring of the shipyards. we must applaud the enormous progress that has been made. however, at this final stage, the reforms needed to conclude the eu accession negotiations on time must be pursued with determination. the fact that the majority of croatian citizens feel that eu membership would not benefit their country is worrying, and we need to work to ensure that croats see the european project as their own. it is therefore essential that citizens are provided with clear and factual information on the implications of croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. − the process of croatia's accession to the european union has made significant progress, with notable progress being made, in particular in respect of the benchmarks set out in the negotiating chapters. it should be noted that according to the eurobarometer, very recently, the majority of the croatian population considered that the accession of their country to the eu would not benefit them. it is important to reflect on the will of the croatian people to join the eu, leaving it to decide freely. the expansion of the european project is desirable and healthy for the creation of a single area of peace, freedom, democracy, progress and prosperity, but it is essential that this project be and continue to be based solely and essentially on the will of the peoples. the geopolitical accession of croatia is important to encourage the other western balkan countries to launch and implement reforms in a determined manner related to accession to the european project. i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i abstained from this vote. i am not opposed in principle to the accession of any country to a union which i do not want to see as a club closed to countries which respect the minimum values of democracy and human rights and whose peoples freely decide on their membership. but i cannot accept the pressure being put on croatia to speed up the privatisation of public enterprises, i cannot accept the commission's political interference in the internal decision-making process, providing political support to organisations advocating membership in a country where, as the latest eurobarometer shows, the majority of citizens believe that membership would not be beneficial, which is not surprising, given the anti-social character of current eu policies.
madam president, it is always better to prevent a catastrophe than to remedy it. there is a real risk of a world food crisis. it's not my line. it came from a government of one of the founding member states of the european union. the signs are disturbing. the rise in the prices of some basic food commodities, such as cereals, is continuing and, according to the fao, they even reached historic levels in january. the problem is obviously not european, and the weight of each of the hypothetical causes justifying the phenomenon is, as has already been emphasized here today, far from being known. we know that the commission is not inattentive, and its communication of the 2nd of this month is a document that deserves careful consideration. however, the specific nature of agricultural production deserves special attention in the cap, by enshrining genuine risk management instruments in development cooperation policy, by supporting food production at the expense of other forms of support and at international level. and here i welcome france's position within the g20, influencing the regulation of financial markets and the fight against price manipulation and also establishing rules to prevent abrupt disruption of trade flows, as has recently happened with russia, for example.
madam president, three years after the 2008 crisis, the world is on the verge of another food crisis. to stop it, we have to look at its causes and attack them. look at agricultural and trade policies that destroy small and mediumsized farming, that encourage intensive export-oriented production models and thereby threaten food security and food sovereignty, as is the case with the cap. the trend in oil prices and the high dependence of agricultural activity on this raw material, which must be reduced, must be taken into account. look at the enormous power of agribusiness multinationals who hold the monopoly of key production factors, at the increasing use of fertile land for purposes other than food production, at the usurpation of land from the local communities who live and work on it. above all, we must look at and attack the irrationality of an inhuman system that allows speculation on food. the financial instruments that enable speculation must be abolished, and the eu must accept this necessity, or it will be complicit - as it already is - in its consequences.
in writing. we are dealing with a problem which is above all a political issue requiring foresight. more than short-term remedies, what is needed is the courage to establish a new architecture that reconciles the need to increase food production by 70% over the next 40 years with the increasing limitations of natural resources. so what is done or not done in africa, asia, america or europe affects everyone everywhere with consequences on food availability, access and prices. this is seriously affecting poor populations and the beef and dairy farmers. that is why the response must be global and go far beyond the field of agricultural policy, and it is essential to call for a set of other policies, without which we will not really be reaching the necessary solutions. solutions that on a global scale involve defending food as a right, supporting countries' ability to feed themselves, supporting agricultural producers and ensuring their fair access to value in the food chain, limiting financial speculation, protecting access to land, creating food reserves.
food prices have risen sharply in recent years not so much as a result of the laws of supply and demand but mainly as a result of speculative behaviour. it turns out that these increases are mostly affecting the less well-off, who have to spend more than half their income on food. we cannot tolerate the exploitation of the hunger of others, either in europe or in the developing countries. food security is a citizen's right, which presupposes that everyone has access to healthy food. food shortages have a number of causes: wrong land-use planning policies and support for agriculture, for example, but also climate change. it is therefore crucial that the eu supports farmers to cultivate the land and produce the food they need. it is not acceptable that consumers pay too much and producers make too little, leaving the profits to the speculators. and also because of food security, the fight against climate change must be a priority for the eu.
i have listened to you carefully, commissioner, and frankly i do not know whether i am disappointed or shocked by the commission's work, because i have not yet understood whether the commission has voluntarily or involuntarily fallen into the trap of the hungarian government. the hungarian government decided to discuss some concessions, some details in the periphery and nothing fundamental changed in this law. it has not changed the absolutely disproportionate and partial composition of the media committee, it has not changed the absolutely stifling fines for press titles and it has not changed all the things that lead to censorship and self-censorship of the media. but what is absolutely shameful about something that has been said here is that from the moment the commission has made a concession so that the fines do not apply to foreign newspapers and securities, everything has gone well. this seems to me to be a fundamental perversion of the principles of europe after 1989, of europe after the fall of the wall. what she meant was that we would not abandon our european brothers in any country to censorship and the suppression of freedom of expression. the commission has apparently done so, but parliament will continue to keep a close eye, not only on the hungarian government but also on the commission, because it is our duty and our responsibility not to let this matter slip as the commission has shamefully let it slip.
mr president, let me first of all express my satisfaction as president of the international trade commission (inta) that we are on the verge of successfully completing the first major test of the exercise of the co-decision powers that the treaty of lisbon has given us in the field of trade agreements. i think we have exercised it with a high sense of responsibility and i think it is right to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs and also the spirit of convergence of the commission and the council, under the belgian presidency, in the negotiation of the safeguard regulation. it should be noted that the vote in the inta committee was overwhelmingly in favour of recommending the assent to the trade agreement and the adoption of the regulation on the safeguard mechanism. this shows that parliament is capable of forming a broad political coalition in favour of greater openness to international trade, in accordance with a principle laid down in the treaty itself. the trade agreement is, in my view, mutually beneficial. with the reciprocal opening of the two markets, each economy can take advantage of its competitive advantages. and in addition to eliminating tariff and non-tariff barriers, the treaty also covers the opening up of the public procurement market, guarantees intellectual property rights and protects labour rights and environmental standards. the ratification of the agreement, which i hope will take place tomorrow, will ensure that we can move decisively to the next stage, which is its implementation.
mr president, we are facing the ultimate exponent of a trade vision which, instead of being oriented towards complementarity and reciprocity, is oriented solely towards competition. competition between countries, between products, between workers. the expected balance sheet of this free trade agreement is presented, as always, in millions of euros of profits for the large economic groups and transnational corporations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this agreement will mainly affect countries such as portugal and the regions most dependent on the sectors covered: textiles, automobiles and components, and electronics. it is significant that the rapporteur himself foresees the inevitable redundancies in europe, but we know that trade unions and farmers' organisations in korea are also against this agreement. it's clear who wins and who loses with your signature.
i believe that what we are discussing here today is at the same time an extension or a better definition of the mandate of the european investment bank linked to a system of guarantees which its financing activity requires. i think that the extension or the clarification of the mandate that is being proposed is going in the right direction. it enables the bank to better meet its own objectives in aid for cooperation and development. and, of course, as long as the european investment bank and the european union want to be subject to the rating agencies, there is clearly a guarantee problem. to those who raise the question that maybe the risk here is going to increase, and therefore we have to be careful when we invest in health, in education, in fighting poverty, in the millennium development goals, because none of this is particularly profitable, so what needs to be said is something else. what i need to say is, we discussed what our relationship is with the rating agencies. and let us also discuss something else, by the way, which is how it is possible to be so careful about the guarantees that taxpayers would have to give to fight poverty and so oblivious to the way the european union has not tried to prevent and regulate private banking and the financial crimes that it has been involved in over the years and that are being paid for with millions of unemployed people. and that is really how this question has to be put. there is, however, one problem about which i have reservations. and the reservations are very simple. on the one hand, we have a european union which has been practicing double standards in international politics. there is no reason why, from the point of view of human rights, there should be european investment bank financing for projects in libya and not in belarus. what's the criterion anyway? we must be very clear about this, because the second point that has been made is that the european external action service has a very broad mandate, which includes military operations. and the question i ask is: do these two aspects intersect, and how is it that the european investment bank cannot be easily diverted from its own objectives, from the mandate for which it was set up?
in writing. - i approve this report because the safeguard clause provides for the possibility of reimposing the most favoured nation levy when imports are so high, both in absolute terms and in relative terms, that they are made to domestic production, which could jeopardise the competitiveness of the european union industry in direct competition with imported products. i therefore agree with the introduction of this safeguard clause, recalling that after the treaty of lisbon the ep has the power of codecision with the council. an effective regulation should indeed serve as a safety net in the event of the failure of the free trade agreement with the republic of korea.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the bilateral safeguard clause can ensure that the european union industry, which manufactures similar or directly competing products, will not be harmed in the event of trade liberalisation by the republic of korea. this clause should also serve as a means of redress for european industry to avoid serious damage or to adapt to disadvantageous situations resulting from the volatility of the international market.
in writing. − in view of the completion of the procedure for the adoption of the eu-korea free trade agreement, the european commission has prepared a proposal for a regulation on a safeguard clause ensuring the reintroduction of customs duties whenever an increase in imports of a specific product seriously affects the industry concerned. the number of amendments to the commission proposal seems to reflect a certain vagueness in its wording and the desire of members to ensure that various interests are protected. i hope that the resolution we have adopted today will help to improve the original text and allow the eu-korea free trade agreement to be drawn up in such a way as to allow for a significant increase in trade between the two markets, as is expected. i hope that this agreement will bear fruit and that the safeguard clause, which is intended to be clear and capable of functioning effectively whenever necessary, will never be triggered.
in writing. - this report focuses on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation implementing the bilateral clause of the eu-korea free trade agreement. this agreement was signed on 15 october 2009 and includes a safeguard clause guaranteeing the refund of customs duties whenever the growth of imports harms the eu industry manufacturing competing products. for this measure to be applied, it needs to be incorporated into eu legislation. i hope that this will be an effective clause and that it can be used with a minimum of red tape. i welcome the adoption of this proposal, which introduces an increased guarantee for european companies, and i hope that the european union will receive timely reports to assess compliance with these safeguard mechanisms.
in writing. - our position in voting on this report must be seen in the light of the profoundly negative assessment we made of the signing of the free trade agreement in question. the definition of this clause means, first of all, a recognition of the harmful consequences of the liberalization and deregulation promoted by the agreement, and does not remove the dangers and concerns that it entails and raises as regards the future of various sectors of economic activity, particularly in some member states, as is the case in portugal, and in regions more dependent on these sectors. the bilateral safeguard clause is specifically designed to allow the eu to reinstate mfn customs duties if it is proven that the liberalisation resulting from the agreement could cause serious injury to eu industries. we have serious doubts whether this mechanism will be sufficient to protect small producers and small and mediumsized enterprises, which will have great difficulty in maintaining themselves in a liberalised market, and to avoid the destruction of productive capacity and, consequently, of many jobs. it is significant that the possibility of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund is invoked to mitigate the effects of this agreement. the way forward should be to avoid the consequences now in view and not to remedy them in this way.
in writing. − on 23 april 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the republic of korea for the conclusion of an eu-korea free trade agreement. the agreement was initialled on 15 october 2009. the bilateral safeguard clause in this agreement, which provides for the possibility to reinstate the duty applied to parties benefiting from most-favoured-nation treatment (mfn) where, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase in such a way, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the union industry manufacturing like or directly competing products, is very important in order to maintain healthy competition which does not harm any of the parties. however, in order to achieve practical effects, the safeguard clause should be incorporated into the legislation of the european union, since it is necessary to specify not only the procedural aspects of the application of safeguard measures, but also the rights of the parties concerned. the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation under consideration constitutes the legal instrument for the application of the safeguard clause of the eu-korea fta.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this clause provides for the possibility to reinstate the duty applied to parties benefiting from most-favoured-nation treatment (mfn) where, as a result of trade liberalisation, imports increase in such a way, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the union industry manufacturing like or directly competing products. i hope that the final wording of this mechanism will be clear and that its operation will be easy and free of red tape. i hope that the european commission will monitor the implementation of this agreement and ensure that this safeguard mechanism is respected.
in writing. - i approve this regulation in the light of the elements introduced in the new decision. the eib can invest in projects that are essential for the eu, such as the fight against climate change, the development of social, economic and environmental infrastructure, and the development of the local business sector. i also think it is relevant in this regulation that the eib can support the eu's presence in third countries through foreign direct investment, contributing to the promotion of new technologies and the transfer of know-how. however, i think it is appropriate to review the annual assessments on access to loans in order to promote transparency and improve the pace of bureaucratic procedures. in summary, the eib can contribute effectively to the eu's development cooperation objectives, as a fair and balanced distribution of funding between regions is important, and smes should be a good way of encouraging economies to fight unemployment.
in writing. − this decision aims to maintain the continuity of the mandate of the european investment bank (eib), in particular in the guarantee provided by the union in the event of losses resulting from loans and guarantees for projects carried out outside the union. this decision further extends the eib's mandate in terms of its competencies, introducing new elements aimed at directing eib activities towards investment in projects contributing to the fight against climate change, the development of social, economic and environmental infrastructure, and also the development of the local private sector, in particular smes. i wish the eib to continue the excellent work it has been doing in supporting the many projects it has carried out since its establishment.
in writing. the european parliament and the council adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. the eib's mandate ends in october next year. since 1963, the eib has financed projects in the european union and in regions outside the union, contributing to the achievement of the eu's external cohesion and development policy objectives. to avoid a vacuum after october 2011, the parties have therefore started a series of meetings with a view to reaching a consensus that would allow for its approval by the european parliament and would not interrupt eib support after that date. i agree with this proposal because it reflects better coordination between the eu and the eib, contributes to the fight against poverty eradication, stimulates small and mediumsized enterprises as well as local communities, introduces more transparency, encourages better bank practices, increases funding for projects that combat climate change and makes ineligible countries that neglect environmental issues.
in writing. the european parliament and the council have decided to grant an eu guarantee to the eib for losses resulting from loans and guarantees for projects outside the eu. the objectives of these eib projects, which are currently being carried out in a number of countries on different continents, are to promote cooperation and development aid. we naturally value these objectives and the projects that serve them, provided that they correspond to genuine cooperation, taking into account the interests, priorities and specific conditions of the countries in which they are developed. but while this funding for local projects and development is positive, we cannot but be very critical of attempts to subject it to or make it subject to the guidelines of european foreign policy (as is clear from article 1), by putting the real development needs of third countries on the back burner, by limiting their management capacity and legitimate options, by interfering and exerting pressure on their political decisions, and by calling into question their sovereignty and independence.
in writing. − in addition to its main mission of financing investment in the european union, the european investment bank (eib) has, since 1963, been carrying out financing operations outside the european union in support of the union's external policies, allowing the union's budgetary funds available for the external regions to be complemented by the financial strength of the eib, to the benefit of the beneficiary countries. in this way, the eib contributes to the general guiding principles and policy objectives of the european union, including the development of third countries and the prosperity of the union in the new global economic environment. eib operations in support of the union's external policies should continue to be conducted in accordance with the principles of good banking practice. in order to support the eu's external action and to enable the eib to finance investments outside the eu without affecting its credit rating, most of its operations in external regions benefited from an eu budgetary guarantee administered by the commission. this additional guarantee enables the eib to continue its investment policy, which is of great benefit to the world economy.
in writing. the report refers to a proposal for a european parliament and council decision granting an eu guarantee to the eib in the event of losses resulting from loans and guarantees for projects outside the eu. the eib also finances projects in external regions, contributing to the eu's external cohesion and development policy objectives. this proposal reflects better coordination between the eu and the eib, contributes to the fight against poverty eradication, stimulates smes as well as local communities, introduces more transparency, encourages better bank practices, increases funding for projects that combat climate change and disqualifies countries that neglect environmental issues. i am voting in favour of this report and support the strengthening of the eib's external mission, which i hope will be accompanied by increased parliamentary oversight to ensure the democratic legitimacy of the bank's operations. the eib should improve its reporting to the ep on all aspects of its external mandate, from its overall policy to its practical implementation, including the assessment of social, environmental and human rights criteria.
in writing. the aim of the dossier in question, voted on today in the european parliament, is to ensure that an eu guarantee is granted to the eib in the event of losses resulting from loans and guarantees for projects carried out outside the european union. the ceiling for the eib under this guarantee is eur 27.8 billion for the remainder of the current period, 2007-13. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. it also aims to replace the current system of regional objectives with a scheme of horizontal objectives and to put in place a mandate for relations with states such as iceland, libya, iraq and cambodia. i support the position of the european parliament and the eib's external activity, although i stress and regret that in cases of direct competition, financing projects outside the european union often leads to a detriment to competitiveness within the eu.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this recommendation as the south korean market offers new trade opportunities, particularly in the agricultural and services sectors. korea is currently among the most profitable export markets for eu farmers, with annual sales of over €1 billion. for services, in particular financial and legal services, telecommunications, environmental and maritime transport, the estimated increase in transaction volumes is 70%. the agreement also provides for an effective and well-designed safeguard mechanism in the interests of european industries and contributes to the growth of european industry.
in writing. − korea is the fourth largest market for eu exports outside europe, but european exporters have faced tariff and regulatory obstacles to introducing their products into that country. this free trade agreement is the most comprehensive ever negotiated by the union, eliminating tariffs on almost all products and extending the range of services covered by it. it is overall positive and allows for significant gains for both parties. european exports to korea are expected to increase by more than 80%. i hope that european companies, and in particular those in my country, will be able to take advantage of the opportunities that will arise from the opening up of this market.
in writing. - three years ago, the european parliament adopted a resolution aimed at improving access to external markets for the european business sector. we are now called upon to approve a free trade agreement which will in practice enable european union companies to gain access to the south korean market, which, as we know, is important for europe, by increasing exports and, consequently, creating jobs. as the first of a series of trade agreements to be established following the lisbon treaty first exercise of co-decision powers , it represents an important innovation in terms of bilateral compliance with labour standards as defined by the international labour organisation (ilo), compliance with legislation on public procurement, transparency of state aid and the implementation of sustainable development. i welcome the approval of this agreement, which represents a set of new opportunities for the european union, which was closed due to the tariffs applied, and defends the interests of companies because of the added value of the safeguard clause and the refund of customs duties.
in writing. - we are concerned about the approval of this agreement, which we voted against. we have often denounced in this parliament the disastrous consequences of the liberalization of world trade for many sectors of economic activity, particularly in some member states, such as portugal, and in regions more dependent on these sectors. in this case, the textile, automotive and electronics sectors are of particular concern. but the agreement also extends to agricultural products, promoting intensive production models which are unsustainable for the environment and which are contrary to local production and consumption, which are necessary to safeguard food sovereignty and food security. we are looking at the biggest free trade agreement signed by the eu in many years; it is now intended to be the first step towards the signing of a new generation of bilateral new trade agreements. the commission always takes stock of these agreements in terms of the millions of euros earned by the economic groups and transnational companies. it would be important to do the same in terms of the number of jobs destroyed - which the rapporteur assumes is inevitable - , small and mediumsized enterprises brought to ruin or, furthermore, in terms of the tonnes of co2 emitted by the increased flows of energy and goods that these agreements imply. it is curious to see where the eu's much-hyped environmental/climate commitments stand on these occasions...
in writing. − the aim of this free trade agreement is to provide eu companies in a wide range of economic sectors with broad and comprehensive access to the south korean market through a series of unprecedented tariff liberalisations. as a first step towards a new generation of bilateral free trade agreements, this agreement incorporates important innovations, such as a chapter on sustainable development, which obliges both parties to respect core ilo labour standards and which creates a peer review system to address complaints of non-compliance, as well as several working groups and monitoring committees with the aim of ensuring quality and reconciliation. i welcome the fact that this is the most comprehensive free trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union.
in writing. − the free trade agreement concluded by the eu-27 on the one hand and the republic of korea (south korea) on the other aims to improve access for european companies to the south korean market through a series of unprecedented tariff liberalisations. i voted in favour because the agreement is very positive overall and offers significant gains for both sides, with an increase in european exports to korea of over 80%. i hope that this window of opportunity will also be used by portuguese companies, particularly in the agricultural and service sectors, where the advantages are particularly impressive. in fact, korea is currently among the most profitable export markets in the world for eu farmers with annual sales of over €1 billion. the free trade agreement will fully liberalise almost all eu agricultural exports, which will save the agricultural industry 380 million euro, and i cannot but welcome this.
in writing. the european union is also calling on the parties to the conflict to take all necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in the middle east is not disrupted. to this end, i consider it essential that the eu review its neighbourhood policy and urgently mobilise and review existing instruments to assist social, political and economic reforms and strengthen cooperation with civil society organisations, as events in egypt and other countries have highlighted the need for more ambitious policies and instruments. the eu's efforts should focus on strengthening the rule of law, good governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in order to ensure that the right conditions are created for the emergence of a stable democracy.
in writing. - i express my solidarity with the egyptian people and commend their courage and determination, particularly on the part of the younger generations, in the struggle for their legitimate democratic aspirations. i condemn the violence and the disproportionate use of force against the demonstrators, i deeply regret the high number of dead and wounded and i offer my condolences to the families of the victims. a dialogue must be launched involving all the political and social forces which respect democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. these are fundamental principles of the eu and constitute a common basis for the development of the euro-mediterranean area; i call for an independent inquiry into the incidents which have resulted in deaths, injuries and arrests, in the hope that those responsible will be brought to justice. i call for the immediate and unconditional release of all peaceful protesters, prisoners of conscience, egyptian and international human rights defenders, as well as journalists and lawyers. i call on the eu to review its policy of supporting democracy and human rights, so as to create a mechanism for the application of the human rights clause in all agreements with third countries.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the house on the broad consensus reached on the content of the joint resolution now adopted. it is a sign of unity around the fundamental values we defend as a union of peoples and countries which i would not like to make clear. secondly, i hope that the transition from the previous regime to the future democratic regime in egypt will be carried out with serenity, with common sense and with broad agreement among the various political, civil, military and religious actors of this important country in the mazarek. thirdly, i hope that this historic moment will serve to respond positively to the real aspirations of the people, which are freedom, democracy, the fight against corruption, unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. and finally, i reiterate that the future of this region requires solid democracies that are tolerant and respectful of minorities, where the state is a promise for all and not the abuse of a few.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt because i believe that the eu must express solidarity with the egyptian people in their legitimate democratic aspirations and support a swift transition to genuine democracy. to this end, the eu should support egypt in addressing its economic and social difficulties with a view to a lasting process of democratisation involving all civil society.
in writing. - as with the fall of the berlin wall, the international community and press, and even the intelligence and security services of the major countries, have been caught off guard by events they were unable to foresee and which call into question many of the concepts and theories of middle east policy and the stability of the region itself. because of its strategic importance, egypt is at the centre of this change and what happens there could have a decisive influence on the other countries in the area. it is too early to say what sense this impulse will have, which has brought thousands of people to the streets demanding the end of regimes that have been in place in their countries for decades. however, i believe that the european union cannot be indifferent to its development, nor can it remain indifferent to what is happening at its borders, and must seek to support those who are fighting for the establishment of democracy and the rule of law and who reject the dichotomy between militarized secular regimes and radical revolutionary islamism.
in writing. - last week, after a few days of popular upheaval, we saw the resignation of the egyptian president, hosni mubarak, who had ruled that country for more than thirty years. i join the eu in saluting the egyptian people who have fought hard for democratic change. the eu now has the great task of accompanying the political and social transformations in egypt, including the revision of the constitution and the holding of free and fair elections without violating human rights. but it also has an obligation to support the egyptian people with financial resources to promote the necessary economic development. i agree with this resolution and i hope that the transition from a dictatorial regime to a democratic regime in egypt will be swift and peaceful, for we are facing a nation which can play a key role as a mediator in the establishment of a lasting peace in the middle east.
in writing. - the words, although only circumstantial, which express solidarity with the egyptian people, rejoicing in their courage and determination, particularly on the part of the younger generations, and firmly supporting their legitimate democratic aspirations, are positive. the majority of the ep, which has hitherto pointed to egypt as an example of stability in the region, is obliged to applaud the egyptians' action to break this stability. the egyptian demonstrations which led to the overthrow of hosni mubarak are an example of the immense possibilities for democratic conquests of the classes alienated by capitalism and the forces and regimes at its service. the people of egypt have demonstrated with great tenacity and combative unity that it is possible to overcome resignations and move towards the conquest of political and democratic freedoms, even in a country and a region deeply dominated by the interests of imperialism, particularly the us, israel and the eu. until its final defeat imperialism never gives up and does not resign. despite the fine words, the forces in the ep who defend their interests are fighting back, arrogating to themselves the right to interfere and hypocritically wanting to give lessons in democracy through their political parties and foundations.
in writing. − the european union must continue to develop a genuine foreign policy that is coherent and effective vis-à-vis its partners, and it is essential that it speaks decisively, with one voice, reiterating its call for the defence of human rights to become a reality. egypt is a key partner of the european union in the arab world and plays an active and crucial role in supporting the middle east peace process and reconciliation between all sectors of palestinian society. we must therefore express our solidarity with the egyptian people, support their legitimate and democratic aspirations and condemn all forms of violence and the disproportionate use of force against protesters, lamenting the high number of dead and wounded. the egyptian authorities must put an end to all violence immediately, as this is not the solution to any of the problems raised by the egyptian people in their protests. now the egyptian authorities and law enforcement agencies have an obligation to ensure the safety of all citizens and their property, as well as to protect cultural heritage.
in writing. - i would stress in this resolution, which i voted in favour of, the firm support of this parliamentary institution for the reforms aimed at democracy, the rule of law and social justice in egypt. i hope that the state of emergency can be lifted and i hope that good governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in egypt, in particular freedom of conscience, religion and thought, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and media, freedom of association, women's rights and gender equality, protection of minorities and the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation will soon become a reality in egypt, a country with a thousand-year history that deserves to open a new democratic chapter in its history.
in writing. - i have supported this resolution and joined in the expression of solidarity with the egyptian people who, motivated by legitimate aspirations for democracy, freedom and improved living conditions, have opened a new phase in the process of political transition in egypt. i hope that the conditions are now created and that all support is guaranteed so that egypt can move forward with the necessary political, economic and social reforms, aimed at social justice and the implementation of a solid, tolerant democracy which respects human rights and civil liberties.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, drawing attention to the importance of a top-down and at the same time horizontal approach involving all actors in the development of the strategy. experience such as this shows that a coordinated approach is needed to use the funds available efficiently. in this context, i would stress the importance of technical assistance for the implementation of actions and projects. i would also remind you that this macro-region is of particular importance for europe, as it can improve neighbourly relations with south-east europe and foster political and economic cooperation with the balkans. in order to assess the effectiveness of this strategy, i agree to an analysis of its implementation, which together with an analysis of the baltic sea strategy may point out possible sources and methods of financing for regional macro-strategies for pilot projects in europe.
in writing. - i welcome an integrated approach, including the development of macro-regional strategies applicable to the whole of the european union, to increase the effectiveness of regional policy. the baltic sea strategy already provides a model for coordinating eu policies and funding in geopolitical territorial units - macro-regions - defined on the basis of specific criteria. i particularly welcome the adoption of the strategy for the danube region and support the accompanying action plan, which meets the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the danube region. like this regional strategy, i also call for the creation of the euro-african atlantic area, which would allow for a deepening of relations between the south-west european coast, the overseas territories and the neighbouring acp countries, thus improving cooperation in matters such as transport, energy security, scientific exchange, tourism development, security and the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region because it responds to the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the region.
in writing. - the danube region has its own characteristics and particular historical importance which, like the baltic, justify a particular strategy for the european union. this macro-region has a route of particular importance at european level on its main river. in its vicinity, and through the interdependence which it is intended to intensify, mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection can be improved. taking into account the countries of the danube region, such a strategy could help to heal past divisions and prevent the reigniting of old disputes, allowing for greater european cohesion and opening the door to future enlargements of the union. i hope that investment in these regions will not compromise or undermine the support given to the outermost regions, which by their very nature deserve special aid and incentives. european cohesion also passes through here.
in writing. − following the european council's request to the commission to draw up a document defining an eu strategy for the danube region, the commission presented on 8 december a proposal for a 'european union strategy for the danube region' including an action plan. given the geo-strategic importance of this region in various sectors such as tourism, transport, environment, energy, good neighbourly policy, territorial cohesion, etc., parliament has been a key partner in the definition of this strategy and should continue to be so throughout its implementation. i therefore welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution, aware that it is a vehicle for sustainable development for a region crossed by the largest river in the european union, where some 160 million people live, and whose environmental and heritage resources have earned unesco the classification of world heritage.
in writing. − with a population of 100 million spread over 14 countries, eight of which are members of the eu, the danube region covers both some of the richest and poorest regions in europe and can be defined as a macro-region with heterogeneous economic characteristics and capacities. the effectiveness of regional policies is reflected in supporting development and implementing strategies that address a range of local problems and stimulate economic growth in countries whose populations are linked to the river, so as to promote sustainable development. the strategy, which is based on three interlinked objectives (socio-economic development, improvement of transport and support for energy possibilities and environmental protection) and the accompanying action plan, will therefore help to promote this region and minimise existing regional differences by better coordinating the efforts of the eight member states in the region. i therefore welcome its adoption.
in writing. − the european council in 2009 called on the commission to develop a european strategy for the danube region, taking into account that the danube region, comprising 115 million inhabitants and 14 european member states and non-eu member states - germany, austria, slovakia, the czech republic, slovenia, hungary, romania, bulgaria, croatia, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, moldova and ukraine - is a space where greater synergies between various eu policies can be developed. i cannot but welcome the adoption of the danube region strategy by the european commission and support the accompanying action plan, which is based on four pillars (namely connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, creating prosperity and strengthening the danube region), meeting the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, social and economic development, cultural exchanges, security and civil protection in the danube region. i hope that the eu strategy for the danube region will be adopted by the european council and that it will be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. the danube region is made up of 14 eu member states and a total of 115 million people. it is a very heterogeneous region, with high mobility and strong interconnectivity, and has proved to be the right terrain for strengthening synergies between various policies, such as cohesion policy, transport policy, economic, energy, environmental policy, and also enlargement and neighbourhood policy itself. it is a rich region with strong economic capacities, but it requires coordinated efforts to develop a coherent, integrated and sustainable plan. an integrated and coordinated strategy aimed at cooperation between member states and between regions is an appropriate way to achieve the objective of territorial cohesion. to this end, i believe it is essential to involve all institutional and civil actors, in particular through the participation of local and regional authorities. the strategy should also be implemented through more efficient use of the structural funds and, above all, the possibility of using unused financial resources for macro-regional projects. i am voting in favour of this resolution for the danube, and i look forward to similar strategies being developed for other european macro-regions.
in writing. - i approve this resolution as it deals with issues relating to the stability of the legislative regulatory framework for the business environment, the cases of mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, the way in which the russian authorities are fighting terrorism, particularly in the north caucasus, and the human rights situation. this resolution is important in that it puts the emphasis on the partnership for modernisation. i therefore approve this resolution as i believe that the modernisation of russian society requires the full implementation of the principles of the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that full respect for human rights and the rule of law by the russian federation will improve its image and credibility in the world, particularly in its relations with the european union. it is important that the russian federation complies with its international commitments, in particular in the council of europe, where it has committed itself to fully respecting european standards on democracy, human rights, fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - i agree with the concerns expressed by my colleagues, but i cannot fail to note the enormous progress russia has made towards democracy and the rule of law. any dispassionate observer will not fail to recognize that the present russian state has significantly improved respect for human rights and individual freedoms in comparison with the soviet regime that preceded it. this regime continues to shock us today as we learn more about it. at the moment when we are discussing the rule of law in russia, i cannot but deplore and strongly condemn those who are calling it into question by attacking, injuring and killing innocent people in obedience to radical terrorist agendas. i therefore offer my sincere condolences to the victims. i hope that russia will continue to demarcate the brutal soviet legacy, that it will increasingly align itself with the european union in respecting the rights, freedoms and guarantees of its citizens and that it will assume its role as the european power that peter the great once dreamed of.
in writing. - russia is an important partner of the european union and should contribute to the creation of sustainable cooperation based on democracy and the rule of law. in this respect, it is important that there should be no doubt about the russian authorities' defence of the rule of law. the russian judicial bodies and law enforcement institutions should therefore carry out their duties effectively, impartially and independently. i condemn the terrorist attack at domodedovo airport and express my condolences to the families of the victims. i stress the need for the russian authorities to respond to this attack in a legal and moderate manner and to allow the russian judicial system to function freely and independently to prosecute and convict those responsible for the attack.
in writing. - i am convinced that russia remains one of the european union's most important partners for maintaining security and stability in the world and that eu-russia cooperation should therefore be stepped up. we must strengthen our commitment to working with russia to meet common challenges in key areas such as the fight against terrorism, energy policy and global economic governance. the eu and russia must intensify negotiations on a new, comprehensive and binding partnership and cooperation agreement, including in the areas of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human and fundamental rights. the development of joint initiatives with the russian government aimed at strengthening security and stability in the world and in particular in the common neighbourhood is necessary in order to achieve a peaceful settlement of the conflicts in nagorno-karabakh, transnistria and georgia in accordance with international law.
in writing. − respect for european standards of democracy, human rights, fundamental rights and the rule of law is fundamental for all european peoples. respect for the decisions of the european court of human rights must be based on a policy of neighbourliness and rapprochement between peoples. i join the wish expressed in this resolution that the russian state should apply measures to redress violations in individual cases, including ensuring effective investigations and accountability of perpetrators, and adopt general measures to enforce decisions, involving political and legal changes to prevent the repetition of human rights violations. i hope that the council and the commission will provide russia with practical assistance and expertise to strengthen the independence of the judiciary and law enforcement services in order to improve the resilience of its judicial system to political and economic pressure, in particular by setting up a judicial support programme that contributes to the education and training of judicial, prosecutorial and judicial staff, in particular in the field of human rights.
in writing. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european energy charter for the period 2000-2006. i agree that the energy strategy should address and facilitate the transition to an environmentally sustainable energy development pathway and that the world bank should adopt a private sector development approach that maximises the benefits for the poor while also tackling climate change. i regret that a large part of the loans for fossil fuels continue to play a predominant role, despite the strategic objective of phasing out financing for such projects. i also note the concern that much of the multilateral financing granted to financial intermediaries is still poorly controlled and that these should have clear development objectives. i call on the world bank to reorient its current strategy towards a large-scale export-oriented energy model, towards decentralised and small-scale energy projects that more clearly respond to the basic needs of rural areas. finally, i fully agree with the need for the world bank to clearly identify and publicly disseminate the benefits of development before funding is allocated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the world bank energy strategy because i believe that it should support the transition to an environmentally sustainable energy development pathway in the least developed countries, while contributing to the eu's objectives in the fight against climate change and poverty.
in writing. - according to the data in the proposal, 1.5 billion people currently lack access to electricity, of whom 4 out of 5 live in sub-saharan africa and south asia, and almost 2.4 billion people still use traditional biofuels for cooking and heating, which represents an unsustainable use of natural resources. it is therefore essential that the world bank adopts a new strategy for financing energy projects, focusing on the provision of efficient, affordable and clean energy as a way to reduce poverty and promote economic growth. in this context, and as the world bank finalizes its energy strategy, taking into account that it has in the past committed to making half of its investments in low-carbon energy, parliament called for priority to be given to clean energy projects, and in particular a clear focus on renewable energy, as a way of promoting sustainable development in the most disadvantaged regions.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the world bank's energy strategy for developing countries. if we consider that today more than 1.5 billion people do not have access to electricity, a fundamental right of every citizen, we will understand the importance of this matter. at a time when the world bank is finalising a new energy strategy, a detailed approach is relevant. in fact, although this subject has been debated for more than twenty years, the results are far from satisfactory. we continue to rely too heavily on fossil fuels rather than exploring alternative energy sources. we are accelerating climate change and hurting people who live in extreme poverty. i therefore believe that the world bank should review its policy of supporting the exploitation of energy from fossil fuels by making support for this sector more transparent and by encouraging green energy in order to reduce not only environmental pollution but above all the external energy dependence of developing countries.
in writing. − there is no doubt that access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development, and that this requires energy services to be reliable, affordable - especially for the poor - and distributed in a balanced way, so that the gap between urban and rural areas can be bridged. in the 21st century, some 1.5 billion people still lack access to electricity, with 4 out of 5 living in sub-saharan africa and south asia, mostly in rural areas, and almost 2.4 billion people still using traditional biofuels for cooking and heating, causing serious health problems and 1.9 billion deaths a year from indoor pollution, as well as ecological damage from unsustainable use of natural resources. the world bank should therefore give priority to local and small-scale access to energy, particularly in the least developed countries of africa and asia.
in writing. - i support the concerns and suggestions expressed by the european parliament in this resolution, which i voted in favour of, on the world bank's energy strategy. given that access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty eradication and economic development, and that the right to energy implies that energy services are reliable, affordable and distributed in a balanced way so as to bridge the gap between urban and rural areas, it seems to me essential that an investment policy based on the sustainable use of natural resources be promoted. i therefore support the european parliament's recommendations to the world bank in this area.
in writing. - i approve this proposal, taking into account that the current crisis raises the concern that the current mechanisms will not allow the crisis to be overcome, and the lack of coherence in achieving the five major objectives, particularly as regards employment rates, is aggravating. the annual growth review and the european semester framework are crucial instruments, but they should not replace or diminish the broad guidelines for economic and employment policies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to make the unity of economic efforts visible, including a system of eurobonds, a public bond market with high liquidity, lower interest rates and the creation of a european tax on financial transactions to curb speculation. the development and job creation should not be compromised, and a stronger role for the eib and the ebrd should be proposed in support of infrastructure, technology and especially smes. i would also point out that the strategy for growth and employment cannot be jeopardised by the current short-term view of fiscal consolidation and must take due account of public investment in its objectives.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis we are currently experiencing has led to significant job losses in europe. the creation of more and better jobs in europe is a priority of the 2020 strategy and the european employment strategy. the aim is to transform europe into a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy, delivering high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. europe must act collectively to overcome the present situation. this resolution goes in that direction, calling on the commission and the council to involve, alongside the european parliament, national parliaments, the social partners and regional and local authorities in policies aimed at restoring jobs and growth. this requires the strengthening of the community method and the adoption of the european semester in the legislative governance framework. the emphasis on the role of smes and the single market act in job creation is commendable. finally, we would like to highlight the role of the agenda for new skills and jobs in achieving these objectives. that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy aims to ensure that the eu emerges from the crisis and prepares the eu economy for the next decade. it aims to promote knowledge, innovation, education and the digital society; to make our productive machinery more resource-efficient by enhancing competitiveness; and to increase labour market participation, skills acquisition and the fight against poverty. i would particularly stress the 'innovation union' initiative, which addresses the major societal challenges in terms of energy and food security, climate change, health and ageing populations. however, there is a need to strengthen, stimulate and secure funding for research, innovation and development in the eu. i call for more funding for the key research, innovation and deployment instruments already approved, such as the strategic energy technologies plan (set plan). i would also like to emphasize the contribution of the research framework programme and the contribution that the structural funds are making in terms of encouraging research, development and innovation at national and regional level.
in writing. − at a time when the economic governance package, which aims to strengthen the finances of the member states and the union as a whole, is under discussion, i cannot help but underline its relationship with the eu 2020 strategy. i consider it particularly important that this strategy should contribute to the strengthening of national and community finances, to innovation and, consequently, to competitiveness and growth. this resolution, which goes along with some of the proposals of the economic government currently under discussion, lays down fundamental principles to be followed in future discussions, and sets out key ideas to be taken into account. i am referring in particular to the need to follow a community method leading to greater unity between the member states, to the inclusion of a european semester allowing for better coordination between national policies, and to the need for policies which encourage european competitiveness, such as support for innovation, small and mediumsized enterprises and the creation of the single market.
in writing. - the world in general and the european union in particular have been living through turbulent times, as exemplified by the current economic and financial crisis. in order to put an end to this situation, the european council adopted on 17 june 2010 the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is a growth strategy for the next decade that will boost the european economy to high standards of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the objectives to be achieved by 2020 are ambitious: at the educational level, to reduce school drop-out to below 10% and to raise the percentage of graduates to 40% among the population aged 30 to 34; at the social level, to lift 20 million people out of situations at risk of poverty and exclusion. it also wants 3% of gdp to be invested in scientific research. i welcome the selection of flagship initiatives focusing on education, employment, youth, innovation, the digital agenda, the environment, globalisation, resource use and tackling exclusion, which will boost europe 2020's growth and competitiveness. i welcome the adoption of this strategy and urge the eu institutions and member state governments to spare no effort in achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the reality is that it is not enough to put forward proposals, even if they are very modest in the social field, to achieve these objectives, especially if the policies they propose are exactly the same as those adopted so far and which are at the root of the social crisis we are experiencing. this is the case with strategy 2020, which is now associated with so-called economic governance. the leap forward they are seeking to make in economic governance, with the creation of the european semester, the deepening of sanctions in the context of compliance with the sgp, the economic policy guidelines and indicators that will be adopted, is not accompanied by a significant increase in the community budget, which would always be an essential condition for moving towards economic and social cohesion and preventing the worsening of the current divergences. what they want is to create a genuine straitjacket for the member states to put the so-called austerity measures into practice, which are the deepening of the neoliberal cartel with all its serious anti-social consequences. if there is any doubt about this, there is the german and french draft of the so-called competitiveness pact which seeks to raise the retirement age, to call into question collective bargaining and to deal yet another blow to labour and social rights, just to guarantee greater profits for economic and financial groups. that is why we voted against this resolution.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy aims to lead europe to recover from the crisis and emerge stronger from it by creating jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, building on the eu's five major objectives, namely promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction. the objectives are ambitious and we all have to make an extra effort to achieve them for the good of the eu and its citizens.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth sets out a series of measures to help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger from it, by creating jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the eu's five main objectives: promoting employment, improving the conditions for innovation, research and development, meeting climate change and energy targets, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction. i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the proposals put forward by the european parliament, in particular the need to strengthen the governance structure of the europe 2020 strategy. it is not too much to stress that actions under the europe 2020 strategy are crucial to delivering on the expectations of all european citizens.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy sets out the european union's goals for the coming years for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to achieve this, certain aspects are essential, such as strengthening governance and financing cohesion policy. as the main cause of the failure of the lisbon strategy, the current eu programme must involve greater participation of all actors in policy-making and implementation of actions. all institutional actors at european, national, regional and local level should therefore be called upon, together with civil society, to make this strategy a reality. in this context, i stress the need to implement the territorial pact of local and regional authorities for europe 2020. a strong cohesion policy for all european regions is needed as an essential precondition for the realisation of eu 2020. cohesion policy is a cross-cutting policy and is therefore a key element for the success of the strategy. its complementary character must therefore be emphasised. a particular role should be given to smes, the driving force behind the development of the european economy, through incentives for an environment of economic growth and job creation within this programme. for the reasons given, i shall vote in favour of the resolution in plenary.
in writing. − the european employment strategy and the national employment strategies implemented by the member states are one of the main instruments for achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy in full. it is therefore of great importance that, together with the business sector and the social partners, the guidelines for employment policies are correctly and effectively implemented. the guidelines and concerns expressed in the proposal are welcomed: the need to strengthen government accountability and set ambitious targets to meet the objectives set out in strategy 2020, the need to ensure the implementation of the employment policy guidelines, the need to ensure that in the national reform programmes, the highest priority is given to job creation. the union lacks a strong horizontal policy in the fight against unemployment and social exclusion, which unquestionably requires a coherent economic governance package that is responsive to the needs of the union and its member states, as well as the achievement of ambitious targets such as those proposed in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this proposal for a european parliament resolution on the implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states is based on several pillars, including: the current economic crisis, which is aggravating unemployment and increasing social exclusion; the need to create synergies that boost development in order to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy; and the commission's proposal that, in line with the annual growth survey, the same guidelines for employment policies for 2010 be adopted in 2011. to overcome this situation, it is essential that efforts are joined at all levels: governments, social partners and civil society. the european union has a key role to play in this respect, guiding the policies to be followed and respecting the principle of subsidiarity, encouraging social dialogue and promoting the adoption of fair and effective measures. i hope that these guidelines will help to overcome the crisis, consolidate social protection systems and relaunch the economy so that we can achieve the goals set by the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - we regret that the european commission maintains the same guidelines for employment policies adopted in 2010 and therefore maintain the same critical stance we adopted then. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and calls for the eu to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − the european employment strategy and the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states are some of the main instruments aimed at guiding the policies of the european union and the member states towards the achievement of the objectives and targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the fight against unemployment and the creation of sustainable jobs is the eu's great challenge for the next 10 years, and we must all be involved in it if this is to be a success story.
in writing. − the implementation of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states is essential for the implementation of the guidelines integrated into the europe 2020 strategy. the involvement of the european parliament in these policies should not be overlooked. the debate is about ideas and ideas and strategies are needed to overcome the current economic crisis. i would like to stress in this resolution a number of concerns that i share: ensuring the implementation of the employment guidelines; redoubling efforts to produce more and better jobs; and taking decisive action to combat poverty and social exclusion. the success of all these policies depends on the joint efforts of all levels: governments, social partners and civil society.
in writing. − i approve this report as i agree with the rapporteur's position on the necessary stability of the employment guidelines until the mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. the integrated guidelines on economic policy and employment should be the guiding principle of the european semester and if the main messages of the annual growth survey diverge from the content of the guidelines, the guidelines will have to be amended to ensure their consistency. i also agree to the involvement of stakeholders in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the national reform programmes. i would also stress the recommendations of the emu committee that the importance of the broad economic policy guidelines and the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states should not be diminished in order to achieve democratic ownership and accountability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support an annual review of the europe 2020 strategy, focusing on the integrated guidelines for economic and employment policy. the commission and the council need to ensure that the integrated guidelines form the main thread of the european semester. the involvement of stakeholders, including social partners and parliamentary bodies, in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the national reform programmes is essential for the effective governance of social and employment policies by the member states.
in writing. as i said in connection with the reports by mr gruny and mr ory, society has evolved, the world has changed, and industrial relations must necessarily keep pace with this change. i therefore believe that the revision of the employment guidelines under the europe 2020 strategy should focus on flexibility and new forms of work as a means of boosting economic development and combating unemployment. given that the crisis has increased the number of unemployed in europe from 16 million in 2008 to 23 million in 2010, any exit strategy must involve the recovery of jobs, which is only possible with a clear focus on innovation, labour flexibility and new work models and the training of young people for an increasingly competitive market. these are the tracks left by the europe 2020 strategy which must be properly exploited by the states in order to restore jobs and boost the european economy.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) obliges the council to draw up guidelines for employment policies in the member states on an annual basis and to consult the european parliament before adopting such decisions. it is therefore in this context that we are asked to give our views on this matter. the economic and financial situation in most countries requires increased attention to the employment policies of the member states. the europe 2020 strategy sets out these guidelines, but it is necessary for all member states to transpose these guidelines and turn them into concrete measures to be integrated into their national reform programmes to be presented in april. i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations and therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. − we disagree that the european commission should maintain for 2011 the same guidelines for employment policies adopted in 2010 and therefore maintain the same critical position we adopted then. the commission's proposals are not enough, and the figures show that there are some 25 million unemployed and 30 million workers in precarious and low-paid situations. it is also unacceptable for the european parliament to support the close link between these guidelines and the neoliberal economic measures which the commission is continuing to deepen, in particular those contained in strategy 2020, or also with the six legislative diplomas contained in the package of the so-called european semester. it is well known that the european commission's proposals on economic governance are not only an attack on the sovereignty of the member states but will also worsen the social situation by continuing to give priority to monetary criteria over social welfare and progress. for all these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. − the european employment strategy and the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states are some of the main instruments aimed at guiding the policies of the european union and the member states towards the achievement of the objectives and targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the fight against unemployment and the creation of sustainable jobs is the eu's great challenge for the next 10 years, and we must all be involved in it if this is to be a success story. we must stress the importance of focusing the annual review of the europe 2020 strategy on the integrated guidelines for economic and employment policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the tfeu requires the council to draw up guidelines for the employment policies of the member states on an annual basis and to consult the european parliament beforehand. i think it is necessary for the commission and the council to ensure that these guidelines are the guiding principle of the european semester. the involvement of stakeholders, including social partners and parliamentary bodies, in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the national reform programmes is essential for the effective governance of social and employment policies by the member states. without the deep involvement of member states, strategy 2020 cannot succeed. i pray that this does not happen.
in writing. - i support this proposal as necessary in the face of the growing volatility of food prices, with an increase of around 90% in 2010, and of commodity prices, which have caused problems in the functioning of food supply chains, making the measures proposed in this resolution necessary. these include internal action with a strong cap to compensate farmers for increased costs, a greater focus on small organic farms for local consumption, the submission of appropriate proposals on the mifds and the market abuse directive, the enhancement of the effectiveness of the emea in the supervision of commodity markets, and even the mandate for regulators and supervisory bodies to restrict speculation. the eu also needs a global strategy to combat speculation, which involves international coordination of a mechanism to prevent excessive price fluctuations and the creation of specific regulations to be applied in as many countries as possible.
in writing. − the food and agriculture organisation (fao) warned in january of a possible increase in food prices in 2011, after food prices reached new all-time highs in 2010, following the rise during the 2008 food crisis. the fao 55 food raw materials index rose for the sixth consecutive month to 214.7 points, up from the previous all-time high of 213.5 points reached in june 2008. right now, food prices have reached record highs for the seventh consecutive month between 2010 and 2011, the highest since fao began tracking food prices in 1990. as i have said in the past, i believe that concrete measures must be taken within the framework of the cap to increase production, to supply markets better and to ensure greater price stability, as well as to ensure production that meets european consumer needs. as i have said, agriculture must be seen, especially in times of crisis such as the one we are going through, as a strategic sector, which is essential to guaranteeing the food security of the population.
in writing. − the right to food is a fundamental right, which is achieved when all people have, at all times, physical and economic access to adequate, safe and nutritious food that meets their needs to lead an active and healthy life. i consider the existence of hunger in the eu and in the world to be an unacceptable failure. in fact, according to estimates by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao), the number of undernourished people worldwide stood at 925 million in 2010. this situation may be aggravated by the increase in food prices associated with unforeseeable food supply shortages. i therefore advocate a strong and sustainable agricultural sector in the eu where the countryside is prosperous and sustainable. the cap must ensure this. i also draw attention to the decline in agricultural incomes in the eu, caused by rising production costs and price volatility, which have a negative impact on farmers' ability to maintain production. in addition, european farmers have to meet the world's most stringent standards for food safety, the environment, animal welfare and labour.
in writing. - the resolution contains important positive aspects, such as the need to give priority to agriculture in development aid and the recognition of the disinvestment which has occurred in this area; the need for strategic and intervention stocks; the need for market intervention instruments to become a key part of the future cap (even if these instruments are not specified later, it is true that many advocate only the so-called emergency mechanisms, compatible with the market liberalization which has been pursued). however, the resolution omits key points and contains other negatives, even unacceptable ones. it does not say that the food crisis is the result of the agricultural and trade policies in force (such as the cap and free trade), does not make the just and necessary criticism of these policies or call for the change that is needed. it welcomes the integration of agriculture into the wto, although it proposes measures to mitigate this inclusion. we, for our part, maintain that agriculture should remain outside the wto. the fundamental concept of food sovereignty, which is inseparable from food security, is not addressed. the problem of speculation is not adequately addressed. the proposed measures go little beyond the calls for greater transparency in the market, which is clearly insufficient.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i agree with all the principles it sets out. i am in favour of producing healthy food in sufficient quantities to contribute effectively to the world food demand. it is essential to ensure farmers' incomes and to create mechanisms to avoid huge volatility in prices and markets. to ensure that, on a global scale, we have enough food to feed the entire world's population, it is essential to support farmers in developing countries. at the global level, we must ensure that all available means are put in place to combat climate change, so that it does not diminish natural resources and agricultural production incomes. it is essential to strengthen the position of farmers in the food chain. the question of price increases linked to other external costs and speculation in agricultural commodities is essential for the productive sector to thrive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 'price of foodstuffs', because in six months the price of the fao food basket, including 55 basic necessities, has increased by 34%. in portugal we have an unsustainable reality for farmers with agricultural diesel approaching the record price of 1 euro per litre in 2008; electricity increased by almost 4% and agricultural electricity is expected to run out this year; feed, fertilizer and pesticide prices have also skyrocketed; the interest rates for crop loans are in the order of 6%, just to give a few examples. i also think it is unacceptable that, at a time when the general crisis is worsening, consumers should pay inflated prices without an improvement in farmer incomes. i believe that the european commission should take up its responsibilities and look at these serious problems in the agricultural sector from a holistic perspective and not, as it is doing with the milk package, leaving out one of the main players in the milk package, the large retailers.
in writing. − the right to food, enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights and article 39 tfeu, has been severely affected by the current economic and financial crisis. the projected population growth, particularly in emerging economies, and the increasing levels of poverty and hunger worldwide demonstrate that there must be at least a 70% increase in food production to meet the needs of the population. in parallel, financial speculation in food commodities is added to this scenario, which consequently leads to volatility in food prices, climatic phenomena and the steady increase in bioethanol production to the detriment of foodstuffs. i believe that concrete measures are urgently needed to combat the destabilisation of agricultural markets, and in this way support farmers and boost innovation in the sector, reinforcing the role of the cap as a key eu objective. this cross-cutting issue should be discussed multilaterally, as it affects the world's population and the multiplier effects are indisputable. an example of this is the riots in developing countries. support for countries at risk must be strengthened to prevent future food crises.
mr president, the introduction of taxes on financial transactions has long been necessary at world level and therefore also in the european union, as has the abolition of tax havens and speculative financial products. the need for effective control and regulation of the capital market has long been felt, preventing speculation on a wide range of products, from raw materials to real estate transactions, pensions, pensions, insurance, with a whole range of derivative products, including sovereign debt itself. unfortunately the european commission has not moved forward with these proposals, but it is known that the financial damage caused by tax evasion and fraud in europe is estimated at eur 250 billion a year, which alone would be enough to reduce public deficits without the need for tax increases. according to current revenue generation estimates, a financial transaction tax, even at the reduced rate, would generate about €200 billion a year at the eu level and $650 billion globally. and it is in this context that we ask: how can we accept that a clear position on the creation of a financial transaction tax at european union level is being postponed on the pretext of another study, new studies, new assessments? it is time to take clear decisions on capital control and taxation and not to continue to make workers and micro and small enterprises pay for the economic and social crisis.
mr president, the subject of innovative finance at global and european level is not only important but extremely topical. i regret that it has come down to the question of whether or not there is a new financial transaction tax, but i will not shy away from the debate. there are a number of questions i want to put to you. firstly, do you know of any crisis in this house which has been solved by the existence of new taxation? do you know of any studies on the administrative costs of this new taxation? do you know of any studies that determine the effects that this new taxation will have on the economy? i, in all honesty, do not know. moreover, do you know of any form of regulation that could be done by setting new taxes? or is regulation done through supervision and control over the market? it seems obvious to me that it is. i would like to make one final appeal: that this speech and this debate be conducted with the serenity that is due and not on the ideological basis of someone who cares little about economic growth, the growth of companies and the well-being of citizens.
mr president, it is not worth repeating that the present moment is the most serious test for the survival of the euro and therefore of europe. the podimata report opens up constructive solutions, and i would also like to congratulate our colleague on the ideas she has put forward. the gravity of the moment is not due to the fact that the euro area as a whole has an excessive deficit or external debt, but rather to the fact that the economies within it are persistently and severely diverging under the impact of common policy. we are also lacking the instruments which will enable these economies to converge, which will enable europe to regain its equilibrium, which will enable europe to grow. let's get this straight. the euro area and the european union cannot survive with the current degree of integration and diversity of its economies, with a budget of 1% of collective wealth. in practice, after the crisis, the only solution we were able to build was the austerity recipe, and it is the workers and the companies who are now paying for the deficits generated by the speculative crisis in the financial sector, in the salvation of which 26% of the wealth of the european union has been committed. the financial transaction tax, charged at a very low rate, for example 0.05% on transactions in high-risk, highly speculative products, is true to be paid by its consumers. but why should they not pay, when ordinary citizens pay vat on bread, milk and the most basic products? the tax burden must be redistributed in such a way as to harm workers and businesses less and to be shared more equitably by the financial sectors, in particular the speculative ones. and, commissioner, i do not think it is the commission's place at this time to refuse or to evade the clear political message that this parliament is sending to it. the public consultation cannot exclude the analysis of the financial transaction tax, on the contrary, it must be analysed with the highest priority.
mr president, this proposal for a regulation is intended to consolidate into a single document the recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, which are intended to promote sound management of the mediterranean basin with the participation and accountability of all those who have an influence on it. i congratulate the rapporteur on his work. the good ecological status of this important sea basin is the main objective of the gfcm, and the promotion and sustainable development of this basin presupposes a range of measures for the conservation and management of marine biological resources, which are the gfcm's aim and which should govern fishing in this region. in this conservation strategy, the fight against illegal fishing is one of the greatest challenges facing us today. the general outlook for the council and parliament's proposals for a regulation is positive, but it is also necessary to monitor the implementation of all measures for control, cooperation, information and communication, not only for vessels flying the flag of the community but also for all vessels flying the flag of member states which are contracting parties to the gfcm, which should ensure that good fishing practices are applied. the correct implementation of the recommendations which will come into force with the adoption of this diploma will make it possible to achieve the objectives mentioned above, ensuring equal treatment for all fleets involved in these fisheries.
mr president, we would like to draw attention to one aspect of this proposal for a regulation which we consider to be of the utmost importance and which, unfortunately, we cannot accept. the importance of multilateral cooperation in the field of the good conservation of living marine resources is not in question, quite the contrary. but this proposal is intended to give the commission the power to adopt delegated acts in areas which conflict with the sovereignty of a member state, in this case the republic of cyprus, over its exclusive economic zone. this is all the more serious because sovereignty over this area is currently being threatened, as we know, illegally by a third country which is applying for membership. for this reason, this is also a very sensitive political issue. this proposal, as it stands, interferes with the legitimate right of a member state to exploit the natural resources under the seabed of its exclusive economic zone, a right which is recognised by the united nations convention on the law of the sea. we therefore call on you to support our proposal to restrict the scope of delegated acts by voting against the paragraph for which we are asking for a separate roll-call vote.
the european union has had fisheries agreements with mauritania for more than two decades. for 15 years, these agreements have included explicit objectives in the field of cooperation for the sustainable development of the fisheries sector in mauritania. the question now is: what are the practical results of these agreements? the fisheries sector in mauritania is still at a very early stage of development. the modernisation and development of small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing and related industries, the development of port infrastructure and the improvement of conditions for landing fish, the development of aquaculture projects, the improvement of control and surveillance at sea - all these were objectives that have either not been achieved or have made little progress over the last two decades. all or almost all of it is simply transferring sums of money in exchange for the right to exploit the resources of the country, which is thus deprived of the surpluses it would obtain if it were itself to exploit these resources, from the outset, at the level of processing and selling fish. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the lack of adequate landing facilities for fish along more than 600 km of the central and southern coast of the country is particularly incomprehensible, which means that a substantial part of the fish caught in mauritania's waters is landed in ports of other countries. the failure of the european union's cooperation policy in this area must be acknowledged and profound changes must be made by involving the mauritanian authorities in the discussion of whether we want genuine and fruitful development cooperation.
mr president, fisheries agreements with third countries must strike the right balance between economic interests and the promotion of sustainable fisheries. this requires that the european union also transfers the good fishing practices it has applied in its waters, thus contributing to the balance of marine ecosystems at a global level. the fisheries agreement with mauritania is particularly important in this context. the creation of jobs, the reduction of poverty levels, the development of support structures for the sector are important objectives to safeguard. the key, however, is to promote sustainable fishing by combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and ensuring that the community market is supplied with quality fish. it is not enough, then, for community fishing vessels to adopt practices which respect the environment and the codes of conduct established by the fao. it is essential that the same position be adopted by all those cooperating in the area of the agreement. in this connection, it is urgent to ensure that mauritania requires third countries, with which it also has partnership agreements, to respect the same rules as those applied to community-flagged vessels; otherwise our shipowners will be placed in an unfair competitive disadvantage and the objectives of conservation and sustainable management of fisheries resources will be seriously compromised.
the treaty of lisbon enshrines the objective of territorial cohesion within the european union. this dimension, as well as the economic and social dimension of regional policy, depends on the development of renewed strategies for europe's regions if it is to be effective. for it to succeed, it is necessary to take account of the reality of the regions on the basis of their common specific characteristics and their particular problems. the atlantic region is an area with strong key characteristics for an ambitious strategy. it is, of course, a remote area, with regions where accessibility and connectivity problems are of concern. it has a fragile environment, increasingly weakened by climate change, and a dynamic maritime activity, resulting from the importance of shipping, but also from fishing and energy-related activities. it should be remembered that it is thanks to the atlantic region, and in particular its outermost regions, that the european union has the largest exclusive economic zone in the world. the creation of an integrated strategy for the atlantic region should be supported, provided that it takes due account not only of the important maritime dimension but also of the land dimension. synergies between the various sectoral policies should be created and promoted, thus seeking to achieve added value for the region. the strategy should obviously include all the regions of the atlantic coast, including the outermost regions of macaronesia, i.e. madeira, the azores and the canary islands. there is a need to improve the connectivity of these regions, which, due to their specific geographical and structural characteristics, require optimisation in terms of accessibility and mobility. this will not only help to boost the dynamism and growth of the regions, but also to achieve the objectives of the internal market more effectively. a further word to highlight the need for multi-level governance within this strategy, where it is desirable that the regional and local authorities are called upon to intervene, from the stage of diagnosing the regional reality to the stage of implementing the concrete measures.
it is essential for the european union, as a global player, to have a strategic atlantic orientation which will enable it to develop the full potential of this privileged frontier which links it to such important areas of the world as north america, south america or the whole of western africa. it is in this strategic framework that the creation of a strategy for the atlantic region can really develop its full potential for added value, not only for this region but for the whole european union. only within the framework of a strategic orientation which gives the atlantic a central role can we have an approach to this region which is much less peripheral and much more geocentric in the global context. a strategy for the atlantic region involving member states and their regions should also prioritise new areas of innovation in the economy and science, with a focus on new products and services linked to the environment and renewable and ocean energy, marine biotechnology related to food, health or smart high-tech products and services.
mr president, commissioner, the european union's atlantic strategy achieves a fundamental objective: to deal with europe's oceans and seas in an integrated and articulated way, in a way adapted to their specificities. the atlantic's intercontinental dimension, the diversity of its sea basins and the fact that it is an ultra-deep ocean are distinctive features of the atlantic. these, together with the historical links between the countries and regions bordering the atlantic, are arguments that justify their differentiated approach. its geostrategic position on the border between europe, africa and america creates challenges and opportunities for various levels of maritime activities, such as the protection and safeguarding of ecosystems, maritime safety, the study of climate change, food and energy security and supply, etc. however, it is at deep ocean level that the great wealth of the atlantic in natural, genetic and mineral resources will be rooted. in this context, i believe that, under the european union's atlantic strategy, research, development and technological innovation measures should be implemented to ensure the sustainable exploitation and management of these resources, and that it is necessary to set up a european deep sea observatory in a privileged area such as the azores.
mr president, on 17 february a tornado hit the greenhouses of 50 horticulturalists in the póvoa do varzim region, causing damage estimated at eur 1.5 million. in a matter of seconds, the tornado wiped out the product of months of work and years of investment. farmers will have to plant new crops and the products will not be available for sale for months. these horticulturalists had already suffered the devastation of another storm last year, on 27 february 2010, with a budget of over 4 million euros and until today without any response from the authorities. the figures reveal the importance of horticulture for local economic activity, as in this region there are 2,000 families, approximately a total of 5,000 people and 10,000 direct and indirect jobs. these weather phenomena are becoming more frequent and are putting the continuation of the activity at risk. non-shared insurance is so high that its taking-up would make the activity unviable. in this context, i think it is important for the european union to reflect on the establishment of a common minimum insurance base for all farmers and on the eligibility thresholds for the solidarity fund. it is vital to take into account the regional dimension, otherwise regions facing very serious disasters could be excluded because the threshold set by the member state as a whole has not been reached.
first, it was a song earlier this year, and that song was about a stupid world, our world, where to be a slave you have to study. within hours, that song became an anthem in my country. then there were four young people, who called for a protest on facebook that wants to bring together, and i quote unemployed, slaves disguised, subcontractors and fixed-term workers, intermittent workers, trainees and scholarship holders, that is, the generations in my country who go into debt to study, who almost pay to work and who survive on 500 euros a month. this demonstration has already attracted more than 40,000 signatures online and will take place next saturday. it is good that this europe, the europe from above, listens to those who renounce fear and silence, tired of the precariousness, the precariousness that we have imposed on them, as the song says: they are the generation of the i can't take it anymore, they are full of reason.
the social consequences of the application of the so-called austerity measures are becoming more acute every day. the financial sector and the big economic groups continue to accumulate colossal profits and the unsustainable extortion of national resources by means of the interest on the sovereign debt of countries such as portugal continues. in this scenario, there is a question that must be asked: how long will the gentlemen of this european union keep on pulling the strings? they are now proposing the so-called competitiveness pact, more attacks on wages and social rights, an increase in the retirement age, greater job insecurity and they want to impose all this through economic governance against the will of the people. but the workers' struggle which is still going on, which is intensifying outside this europe, shows us that this path of civilizational regression is not inevitable and that another direction is possible and necessary. we want to salute you once again for your courage and determination. the numerous struggles, strikes, protests and demonstrations, and in particular the cgtp demonstration in portugal on 19 march, are reasons for hope and confidence in a better future.
mr president, commissioner, the european parliament will shortly be called upon to give its opinion on the revision of posei, a programme designed to deal with the remoteness and insularity of the outermost regions of the european union. this reform is not only due to the need to adapt it to the new legal reality of the lisbon treaty, but also to the need to give it greater flexibility in the application of its rules. the lisbon treaty recognises the disadvantages and constraints of the outermost regions and that is precisely why we now have to adapt and update the current regime, taking into account the challenges facing the outermost regions, both in terms of size and content. i am speaking specifically, in the case of madeira, of the need to remove the barriers to the export and dispatch of processed products which severely restrict the development and growth of the agro-industrial sector and of particular attention to banana cultivation, which is threatened by the progressive opening up of markets to third countries, but also to wine and milk production. territorial cohesion aims at the harmonious development of the regions of the european union, and the revision of posei should also contribute to this.
mr president, it is of the utmost importance to pay the greatest attention to product safety standards not only in order to protect production but also to protect consumers. simplification of standards and deadlines cannot jeopardise the full guarantee that our consumers need to have, and when we look at these aspects of safety standards we cannot forget the products we import and also the defence of the indication made in is very important and that is why we hope that the commission will take account of these aspects contained in this report, also the contributions that the committee on industry has made to its implementation, and which have been accepted by the rapporteur, and so we can finally make a little more progress in defending the safety of products, producers and consumers.
mr president, among the lessons to be drawn from the difficult management of h1n1 influenza is the recognition of the need for countries to have public health systems and public health outreach services capable of intervening in a wide range of areas such as the evaluation of information on medication recommended in the event of a health emergency, especially in pandemic situations, the development and evaluation of scientific studies independent of the pharmaceutical industry on the efficacy, safety and risk-benefit ratio of vaccines and antiviral medicines and on the recommended target groups. also capacity building in risk management and anticipation, and in research and development in these areas, as well as in preventive public health measures. finally, cooperation between the different national services and between them and the relevant international and regional institutions and organisations should be strengthened.
mr president, we have already had some doubts about the h1n1 vaccine. it is natural that citizens wonder and have some suspicions, since in 2009 there was an information campaign in all member states, large investments were made in vaccines, the world health organization declared that it was a pandemic and suddenly it seems that the situation has changed completely, that is, in 2010 there has been practically no talk of h1n1 flu and, therefore, it is natural that people wonder, whether there has been alarmism before or laxity now and the question is ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for the collaboration and the work we have done together and also thank the rapporteurs for the opinions of the committee on the internal market and the committee on women's rights. all the contributions were very helpful. health inequalities vary from country to country and from region to region. they are associated with economic and social conditions and may be exacerbated by gender or cultural reasons, i.e. health inequalities are related not only to access to health care but also to factors as diverse as living conditions, housing, education, occupation, income, lifestyles. despite some progress, large inequalities still persist within the 27 member states. for example, according to eurostat, in 2007, life expectancy at birth varied between eu member states by 14.2 years for men and 8.3 years for women. health and life expectancy are still linked to social conditions and poverty, and when poverty arises linked to other vulnerabilities, such as childhood or old age, a disability or belonging to a minority group, health risks increase. health inequalities can start in childhood, continue into old age, and pass from generation to generation, hence the importance of the issue and the urgency of the solution. the current context of global crisis tends to make the situation worse. the crisis is obviously having a serious impact on the health sector in several member states, both in terms of supply and demand. at the supply level, the crisis may lead to a reduction in public health funding, while at the same time leading to an increase in demand for health services. the crisis has revealed that the greed of some knows no bounds and that this lack of decency has contributed to widening the gap between a minority of the rich and a majority of the poor. so the crisis can also be an opportunity to tackle inequalities through bold measures that promote equity. if we don't learn the lesson and if we just change one thing to keep everything the same, we're going to be increasing inequality. now, as we have seen, unequal societies are unstable societies. some member states have included in their economic recovery programmes measures to mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on the health sector by investing in infrastructure, optimising financing and reorganising the healthcare system. it is essential that reducing inequalities be considered a priority at all levels of policy action. i therefore welcome the commission's proposals. i would, however, like to draw attention to some of the proposals in my report, in particular those aimed at giving greater attention to the needs of people in poverty, disadvantaged groups of migrants, including irregular migrants and ethnic minorities, people with disabilities, the elderly and poor children: i believe that it is essential to ensure healthy health conditions for children and pregnant women and i believe that it is desirable for the cohesion fund and the structural funds to support projects relating to factors which contribute to the existence of health inequalities, that is to say, we must build a better, fairer future for those who come.
the current situation with austerity policies which are mainly anti-social policies, with cuts in public investment, particularly in health, is increasing inequalities in the health sector, of course, when in the name of the need to reduce the budget deficit rates of access to public health services are increased, the prices of medicines are increased, even for chronic diseases, by reducing public co-financing, support for the transport of patients for treatment and health consultations in areas where there is no public transport is eliminated. inequalities in health are widening and this is happening in some countries of the european union, particularly in my country, portugal, where people with lower incomes are finding it increasingly difficult to access health care, so, commissioner and members, words are not enough, we need to... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is not therefore the european union's responsibility to export what is known as good governance in the tax field, as the rapporteur rightly points out. the sovereignty of developing countries, their choices and options, taking into account their specific situation and conditions, must be fully respected. two notes on two hot topics: firstly, the so-called economic partnership agreements which have been imposed on developing countries, despite their resistance, and other serious damage, they place a very heavy burden on the tax systems of these countries; secondly, the tax havens that remain and which lead to the loss of income for developing countries, every year, of the equivalent of 800 billion dollars, according to the report. these are two paradigmatic examples of the inconsistency of the european union's policies with regard to the declared objectives in the field of development cooperation.
the report under discussion gives many examples of the disastrous consequences of the liberalization of world trade in the agricultural sector. it is not a secret that agriculture has been used as a bargaining chip for other interests, in particular the interests of the large industrial groups and the european union's services in the wto negotiations. but this does not remove the necessary consequences, namely that international trade must be guided by a logic of complementarity, not by a logic of competition, between producing and producing countries, that a planned agriculture is needed, geared to safeguarding the sovereignty and food security of each country, an agriculture and a planning that counteract the dangerous anarchy of production for a liberalized market. it was more than just petty and inconsistent statements. it was this that was imposed, this that the report did not know or did not want to give... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the shortage of vegetable protein in europe from protein crops is another manifestation of the imbalances created by the agricultural and trade policies in force. this dependence has direct consequences for the security and quality of the food supply to the population and has increased the vulnerability of livestock farmers to the volatility of feed prices in a worrying way. a package of measures to encourage protein crop production, with particular emphasis on local production and short supply chains, is needed to overcome current shortfalls and gradually reduce imports. these measures may include forms of specific support for crop rotation systems, agricultural extension services, research and development, among others. but this problem cannot be a pretext for creating bigger ones. so there is no justification for any relaxation of the precautionary principle and zero tolerance for the presence of genetically modified organisms or... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - first of all, i would like to greet the president, the commissioner and all the members present. let me start by saying thank you. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report and, in a very special way, the shadow rapporteurs from the various political groups. the work resulted in a broad consensus, as shown by the vote last week in the committee on budgets. this report was adopted by 34 votes to 1, with 1 abstention. it is a report which is intended to be in line with the present situation, the economic, financial and social situation we are experiencing, the crisis we are experiencing and, at the same time, the aspirations of european citizens towards the european union and its institutions. we shall have a budget of restraint, an austerity budget and, at the same time, a budget which must provide the necessary means for the institutions and parliament to live up to the european project, to live up to the expectations of the european citizens. our aim is legislative excellence, and not having the means to achieve this would be very bad, it would be a bad sign for the present and it would be a cost that would always be borne by the european citizens. for this purpose we must have the necessary means. we have new powers under the treaty of lisbon. however, and in view of the present situation, we advocate a neutral increase, which means that we advocate an increase equal to inflation. we are in line with the commissioner's letter, with the recommendation he has sent to parliament and the other institutions. and so, when necessary, if necessary, the commitment that the european union has to croatia, the commitment resulting from the accession of the eight new members of the lisbon treaty, when that is required, we will draw up a letter or an amending budget for this purpose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. with these principles we can achieve not only in the estimates we are now preparing, to identify cuts already, but also to make savings in the implementation of the budget in 2012. this is the way we can live up to our responsibilities. we also want, and we are introducing this concept, a budget that goes along with a zero-based budget, where every expenditure is justified, where variable expenditure is well known and, wherever justified, such expenditure must and can have a cost-benefit analysis. we will of course not call into question the projects that are in progress, because that would not only be a setback but also a loss. i am referring, for example, to projects such as kad, projects such as the house of history, projects which will make progress in this budgetary constraint. we also advocate on this basis that the next budgets should be multiannual budgets, so that they can have a great deal of planning at the outset, planning which is in line with the multiannual financial framework.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i thank all the members for their contributions. i would like to point out that our aim at the moment was the guidelines. but we have already gone beyond the guidelines and set a concrete objective. we want a neutral increase, which means that the 2012 budget will not have an increase greater than inflation. i know we have new skills. i know that we need resources for these skills, but we all have to internalize the principles of good management and with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness we have to achieve savings. and with these principles, we're not going to look for blind savings, savings that will be costs in the future. we will achieve savings that do not undermine the objective we have set ourselves, the objective of legislative excellence. i am sure that this budget is also a budget of what i would call conciliation, a conciliation between the needs of the present, between the present crisis and also between the demands that the present imposes on the institutions in order to respond, also efficiently, in order to be able to meet the expectations of the people, the expectations of the european citizens. just one paragraph for a mess that 's been going around: there was no increase in the budget this year for members, there will be no increase next year. the budget everyone is referring to, which is not for members, but for the possibility of hiring an additional assistant, was already set in 2010 and there was no change in budgetary terms, nor any budgetary increase in 2011.
mr. bloom, do you know what the problem is with the united kingdom? it's 52 weeks of low-paid maternity leave. only the first 6 weeks are paid at 60% and the remaining 33 are paid only symbolically and there are 13 weeks that are not paid. that's just for rich families who can keep their wives at home and see their family budget cut. that is the problem of the united kingdom, not the problem of our proposals on maternity leave.
madam president, women are more numerous in universities and have more qualifications, but when it comes to accessing decision-making bodies they encounter a glass ceiling that prevents them from moving up. hence the need for quotas. it's too bad mr. bloom isn't here anymore. in politics and economics, it is noted that there is not a single woman governor of a central bank. women were not responsible for the financial crisis, but they could have helped prevent it. why is it that when we talk about quota, we immediately talk about merit? is it only women's merit that is questioned? do men have no merit? the quota is a necessary and transitional instrument to promote the balanced representation of men and women in decision-making, and i therefore congratulate the commission on the efforts it has made to ensure that there is also a sharing of decision-making in economic power.
it is particularly significant that this year, on international women's day, we are discussing these reports which seek to draw attention to the inequalities and discrimination which persist. in some countries there is a real social backsliding. at a time when we are marking a historic date linked to the struggle of women for the recognition and exercise of their rights, we would like to highlight the worsening of unemployment and job insecurity, associated with low wages, wage discrimination and maternity discrimination, which affect women workers, taking on particularly shocking and unacceptable forms in the new generations. the situation of loss of income is widening and poverty among women is increasing. the situation of disabled women, immigrant women, low-pensioned pensioners and low-paid workers is particularly critical. the difficulties faced by women in rural areas and in family farming, as well as those in charge of micro and small enterprises, are increasing. the impact of austerity measures in some countries, such as portugal, greece and ireland, is having an impact on multiple dimensions of women's lives as workers, citizens and mothers. this is the case with the deliberate devaluation of wages, the freezing of admissions and careers and the blocking of collective bargaining, the cuts in health, education and social security and in various social supports. it is therefore essential to prevent measures being taken under the pretext of the crisis which call into question women's right to equality and the necessary economic and social cohesion. it is not enough to have nice words and statements of good intentions. it is time to break with the neoliberal policies of the stability pact, with liberalisation and privatisation and free competition, which are always at the service of economic and financial groups. it is time to give priority to women, their rights, equality, economic and social cohesion in order to have a better society, to have effective respect for human rights and to consolidate the civilizational gains that women have helped to build.
following the commemoration of the centenary of international women's day, it is not too much to stress the enriching role that women play in the development of the family, society and the economy, although often underestimated and underpaid, considerably increasing the risk of poverty. one of the main problems is limited access to employment, working conditions or even access to jobs that match their qualifications. in addition, the current economic crisis facing the european states is aggravating the employment situation of women because of their susceptibility to precarious employment. on the other hand, the promotion of equality also involves the fight against violence against women, whether physical, psychological or sexual, which must be combated and condemned. in this regard, specific programmes should be adopted to promote the active inclusion or reintegration of women into the labour market by creating specific lifelong learning opportunities to provide skills and qualifications, as well as the confidence building and capacity building needed in the light of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. gender equality is a fundamental principle in our day, but inequalities between men and women persist. the percentage of women among scientists and engineers has increased significantly. in the eu, women account for 59% of graduates and 41% of doctorates. but there are paradoxical data that make you think. women are underrepresented in science when it comes to leadership positions. only 19% of professors at eu universities are women. these data suggest that there are difficulties in women's access to the top positions of the academic career. it is essential to find solutions that reconcile a successful scientific career with a stable family life. i am referring, for example, to the use of new technologies which will enable women scientists to work from home. only in this way will we be able to close the gender gap in science and research, which remains an obstacle to europe's objective of increasing competitiveness and maximising innovation potential.
the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to promote the rights of women and to ensure that women's rights are respected. women have fought and won many battles over the last 100 years, but they have not yet been able to eliminate the existing inequalities, the discrimination that persists in access to work with rights, the wage inequalities reflected in reforms, the difficulty of advancing in careers and professional achievement, the obstacles to access to management and decision-making positions, economic, social and political activity, a situation that tends to worsen in times of economic and social crisis. although motherhood is an indispensable social function for the evolution of society, women continue to be discriminated against for being mothers and workers, which is scandalous in the 21st century. we reaffirm here the solidarity of our group with the struggles of women, continuing to demand an end to inequalities and discrimination, an end to generalized violence against women, an end to gender stereotypes, which implies not only a break with neoliberal policies, but a serious commitment to alternative policies that put the question of human rights and gender equality at the centre of community decision-making and policies.
we know what happened with influenza a and this should serve as a lesson for us all. and i don't know if you remember exactly how this all started, but the truth is that it started in a way and then the response was completely out of proportion to the scale of the problem. that is why the report that was voted on here today is so important. because we must learn from what has been done so that what has been done is not repeated. we have the right to know who made the decisions, how the whole story happened and who decided it happened that way. because we have the right to know which countries have responded in a certain way, why they have responded without transparency and without leaving us in the least doubt, because we have left all the doubts, whether there was trade or not, we have to have the assurance that there is no residue, whether there was trade or not related to this flu. and that is why i understand, madam president, that all threats to public health must be addressed, but it is not indifferent how they are addressed or who pays for them.
in writing. - the offence of tax evasion is only punishable if the taxpayer knows that it is tax evasion and intends to do so (german penal code and general tax code). in this case, there was clearly no intention to evade tax, since the amount in question was paid in a transparent manner, to the credit of a current account of the member, after having invoiced it to the company speaker's agency. moreover, it is quite common for accidental omissions of declaration of small amounts, such as in this case, to be dealt with in a purely administrative procedure. the fact that this omission was dealt with in such a way that elmar brok was not even directly informed of what he was accused of is completely exceptional. the fact that the public prosecutor has not even quantified the exact amount of the amount due - including interest on late payment - is a reason to justify the existence of a fumus persecutionis even more obvious. in these circumstances, it is inappropriate to waive the member's immunity.
in writing. - i agree with the report that it is inappropriate to waive immunity. the case was brought against a well-known political figure for an amount and in circumstances which, in the case of an ordinary citizen, would have involved purely administrative proceedings. this is a case of fumus persecutionis, in that the proceedings appear to have been brought for the sole purpose of damaging the reputation of the member in question.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in the face of the accusations, the member is the target of fumus persecutionis, that is, the proceedings were instituted for the sole purpose of affecting the reputation of the member in question, and i am therefore not in favour of lifting his immunity.
in writing. - the german public prosecutor's office has requested that the parliamentary immunity of mep elmar brok be waived. the case concerned the non-inclusion in the tax return of fees relating to an allocation made in munich, for which a tax of eur 2900 was due but had already been paid. however, it refers to the legal opinion that the case in question was not treated in the same way as that of a normal citizen, and there were strong indications of political persecution. in these precise terms and in the light of the fumus persecutionis, i voted in favour of not lifting parliamentary immunity.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of this report. the proper functioning of the internal market requires safe products and confident consumers. i note that the main concern is to make it safer, but that does not prevent its extension. after a common approach to defining product specifications has been adopted, with progress reflected in the enhancement of general product safety in the internal market, improvements can nevertheless be made, as too many accidents with tragic consequences, particularly with children, still occur in this area. the general product safety directive 2001/95/ec, which sets general product safety requirements, was adopted some 10 years ago and needs to be revised to end the existence of two overlapping levels of divergent market surveillance rules that apply to harmonised goods, whether consumer products or non-consumer products. the relevant legislative framework therefore consists of three elements: new legislative framework, gsp and sectoral harmonisation directives. it is therefore important to harmonize this complexity.
in writing. − the review of directive 2001/95/ec aims to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of consumers, with particular attention to the most vulnerable consumers, in particular children and the elderly. the aim is to ensure greater transparency and more active market surveillance and to provide more rapid means of action to remove products considered dangerous from the market. the proper functioning of the internal market requires safe products and informed consumers with the ability to make choices. for these reasons i have supported this report.
in writing. - i support the initiative to improve and strengthen european measures to safeguard the existence of safe products on the market, with the welfare and protection of consumers as the main concern. i believe that the measures proposed at local level (producers and businesses), in particular those relating to traceability, product safety and transparency of electronic commerce, are relevant and essential to closing gaps in the european approach to this issue and consequently to the proper functioning of the internal market. i would also like to mention the importance of cooperation between member states, which will involve standardizing the level of safety and strengthening market surveillance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to ensure that all products placed on the community market are safe, ensuring a high level of consumer protection. it is necessary for member states, in collaboration with the european commission, to introduce, in a coordinated manner, fines, including heavy fines, for economic operators who deliberately place dangerous or non-compliant products on the internal market.
in writing. - to ensure consumer confidence, it is essential to have strict rules on the quality of products that are placed on the market and this is where the community rules have been going, and well. but these rules, in my view, must necessarily have two beacons which are nothing more than two sides of the same coin: (i) on the one hand, they must not be more restrictive for european producers than for their international competitors, who, by not complying with the same rules, place their products on the same market; (ii) they must not be so demanding as to compromise economic competitiveness. in taking account of these two barriers, the commission should therefore review the directive on general product safety and market surveillance, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable consumers and, in particular, children. we know that many of the accidents that occur because of unsafe products placed on the market are in large part with children, which requires concrete measures concerning not only the safety of the final product but also its suitability for the intended public.
in writing. - this report deals with the need to revise the directive on general product safety and market surveillance adopted some ten years ago. over the last decade, there has been significant progress in this area in the european union, and everyone recognizes that improvements are possible and desirable within a legislative framework that ensures product safety and at the same time benefits consumers and businesses. first of all, the directive must be brought into line with the new legislative framework. secondly, it is urgent to put an end to the overlapping of certain areas and the exclusion of others from the scope of the general product safety directive (gspd) and the nqf. i agree with the rapporteur that the product safety rules should be updated and harmonized with the nql, so that we can optimise consumer protection - by providing a quality product - and ensure full transparency for producers.
in writing. the report sets out a set of guidelines for the future revision of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance. the aim of achieving a higher level of product safety is underlined, with the need for increased supervision, for which sufficient resources should be allocated to the supervisory authorities to ensure, inter alia, traceability throughout the supply chain. the important issue of the country of origin of the product and the responsible manufacturer - which, in addition to defending the right of consumer information, also defends the industries of the eu countries - is also addressed. we have criticised and denounced the consequences of the development and deepening of the single market for economic and social divergence in the eu. but the concrete proposals put forward in this report - which focus on the interests of consumers - deserve our agreement.
in writing. - despite our opposition to the development of the european internal market, on which the premise of this report is based, the concrete proposals it presents and the central issue it analyses are the improvement of conditions and safety for consumers. the specific objective is to provide guidance for the future revision of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance. the rapporteur attaches great importance to the need for greater supervision in order to achieve a higher level of product safety. it also stresses that sufficient resources should be allocated to the supervisory authorities to ensure traceability throughout the supply chain, given their importance in determining the country of origin of the product and the responsible manufacturer, which in the case of imported products also defends eu industries. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. − the consolidation of the internal market is essential for the good economic development of the eu. however, this is only possible if safe products are available on the market and consumers have confidence in them. the objective of achieving free movement and the expansion of the variety of products available on the market cannot be dissociated from the corresponding safety of consumers. in recent years, great progress has been made in product safety. however, further progress is needed to improve products, especially those intended for children, who are most likely to be affected when safety rules are not met.
in writing. − this report concerns the revision of the directive on general product safety and market surveillance. in a context of free movement and the constant expansion of the variety of products available on the market, it is essential that we do not lose sight of consumer safety. it is not only the duty of governments but also of companies to ensure that products are safer. legislation at european level has already been successful in strengthening the overall safety of products in the internal market. but improvements can be made, as there are gaps in this area which compromise consumer safety and which could have dire consequences. i voted in favour of this report because i cannot help but agree with the rapporteur's aim of highlighting the importance of revising the current european legislation on product safety so that dangerous products can be identified and withdrawn from the market, for the benefit of the final consumer. i would particularly like to highlight the changes to product safety standards for the most vulnerable consumers in the single market, namely children, the elderly and the disabled.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of this report as i agree that better cooperation is needed in response to pandemics and i agree that a review of the prevention plans established by the eu and by its member states is needed. it is urgent that the who reassess its definition of a pandemic, taking into account not only its geographical spread but also its severity. i think that better management of this case must be achieved by evaluating the recommended vaccination strategies and that this can only work with a better application of the competences of the european centre for disease prevention and control as an independent agent, with the appropriate means at its disposal.
in writing. − influenza a (h1n1) caused by influenza a virus h1n1 was first detected in mexico in late march 2009 and has since spread to several countries. in may 2009, who classified influenza a (h1n1) as moderately severe, and in june 2009 who declared it at alert level 6 corresponding to the pandemic phase. the who's high alert has triggered a series of measures in europe. in some cases very expensive measures (this refers to the estimated costs for the uk of €1.3 billion, in france €990 million, compared with €87 million against seasonal influenza). the response was disproportionate. each member state has reacted on its own, without much coherence or even solidarity. the present report, which i supported, takes the necessary steps by calling for greater coordination between the member states and the european health institutions, as well as clarification and review of the roles and responsibilities of key actors and of the management structures and threats to health at european level. finally, it recognises the need for independent studies by the pharmaceutical industry on vaccines and antiviral medicines, including the monitoring of vaccination coverage.
in writing. − given the response of several eu countries to the possible h1n1 pandemic, i agree that improvements are needed in the formulation of responses based on the scientific information available in this type of situation. i therefore support a review of the action and prevention plans in the event of a pandemic risk. these reviews should aim at enhanced cooperation and coordination between the health authorities of the member states and the european institutions. another aspect which i consider extremely important is the transparency required both in the medical products used and in the scientific reports provided by the health authorities, in order to prevent conflicts of interest and to ensure the safety and information of citizens.
in writing. − the eu was the region in the world with the best preparedness and capacity to respond to this outbreak, although considerable differences in member states' preparedness and the lack of genuine cooperation between them led to a weakening. preparedness and response to health risks in the eu is a responsibility of member states, but it is essential to improve cooperation and coordination between them and international and regional institutions and organisations, in particular in the early stages of a viral outbreak, in order to assess its severity and to be able to take the relevant management decisions and a coherent approach. the divergent recommendations made in the eu and in the member states regarding the priority target groups for vaccination highlight the enormous uncertainty and divergent views that have persisted around the appropriate response. the costs, which are quite significant, could also have been reduced by increased cooperation between member states and between them and the ecdc/cepcd. i support the need to create a european code of conduct for the exercise of the scientific expert function in any european authority responsible for safety, risk management and anticipation, in order to prevent further cases of corruption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'management of h1n1 influenza' because it stresses the importance of enhancing cooperation, independence and transparency in the management of future pandemic crises, in particular through better application of the competences of the european centre for disease prevention and control as an independent agency.
in writing. − in 2009, the world was gripped by fear of a virus with great pandemic potential and possibly lethal: "gripe a". fortunately, the greatest fears about the morbidity and mortality associated with the h1n1 virus were not confirmed. in europe, this virus was responsible for 2,900 deaths, far fewer than the number of deaths caused by seasonal influenza. however, following the warnings of the who and fear, exceptional measures were taken by the states, such as mass vaccination, which represented a substantial expense for health systems. it is important to draw conclusions from the management of influenza a, rather than pointing out errors. the first of these, in my view, is that it is still better to sin in excess than in absence. second, we must learn lessons for managing future pandemics, which may prove to be more aggressive, and understand how and when to act and what measures to take.
in writing. − fortunately, according to data provided by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), the h1n1 influenza virus has caused fewer deaths than initially expected and is now considered a disease of low severity in the eu. at the beginning of its spread, a certain alarm was created, which led several member states to make huge investments in vaccination programmes that proved to be excessive, since in countries such as poland, which did not take any exceptional measures, the mortality rate remained at the level of countries that carried out national vaccination campaigns with costs estimated at many millions of euros. according to this report, the vaccine procurement policies adopted were the direct consequence of latent contracts concluded since 2007 with pharmaceutical companies. there is a lack of transparency in this process because of the unacceptable dependence of the member states on pharmaceutical companies. i cannot therefore agree with the rapporteur but hope that her recommendations, particularly on information security and the precautionary principle - which must benefit patients and not companies - will be taken into account by the commission and all the member states.
in writing. - in the face of the difficult management of the declared pandemic of influenza a (h1n1) and the known numbers (2900 deaths as a result of h1n1 influenza when the seasonal flu originated in the same year 40 000), the report continues its efforts to demand transparency, which we find commendable. both in terms of what has happened - with full clarification of the procedures adopted and responsibilities - and in terms of how to deal with future situations. this includes: the issue of the procurement of vaccines and antiviral treatments; information on recorded cases and their severity; the granting of access to clinical trial documents, research protocols and adverse drug reactions (by the european medicines agency); and conflicts of interest among experts advising european public health authorities. the report calls for the prevention plans established in the eu and the member states to be reviewed in order to gain effectiveness and coherence, autonomy and flexibility. it also recommended that cooperation between member states in this area be strengthened, both in the definition of the severity of viral outbreaks and in decision-making. we consider it to be a positive overall approach and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − in this phase of evaluating the management of the h1n1 influenza outbreak, lessons must be learned and the need for countries to have public health systems and public health outreach services that can intervene in a number of areas, including:- the development and evaluation of scientific studies, independent of the pharmaceutical industry, on the efficacy, safety and risk-benefit ratio of vaccines and antiviral medicines and on recommended target groups;- the evaluation of information on recommended medication in case of health emergencies, especially in pandemic situations;- the strengthening of capacity in terms of risk management and anticipation and the level of r&d in these areas, as well as in matters of preventive public health measures. cooperation between the different national services and between them and the relevant international and regional institutions and organisations also needs to be strengthened.
in writing. − the management of h1n1 in the eu has revealed a number of difficulties, including its actual severity and scale, the response by states, disproportionate size and very high costs when compared to the annual deaths from normal influenza and the amounts spent by member states to combat it. the analysis of the management of h1n1 influenza in europe highlights a fundamental problem: a lack of independent assessment by national and/or european health authorities and the consequent inability to adapt public health measures as closely as possible and in real time to the actual clinical and epidemiological statistics available. therefore, changes in the management of future pandemics are needed to avoid widespread public panic and unnecessary costs.
in writing. − the report on the management of h1n1 influenza in 2009-2010 in the eu highlights the low statistical severity of the disease in the european area (at the human level, each person who dies is an irreplaceable loss). the european centre for disease prevention and control reports 2,900 deaths in europe from h1n1 infection in 2009. this figure is lower than the official estimates of the european commission for the number of deaths due exclusively to seasonal influenza. the number of deaths is also well below the most optimistic forecasts of the health services of the eu member states. the costs to member states and the european institutions of accepting the maximum alert level as proposed by the who have resulted in a costly set of measures that are disproportionate to the severity of h1n1 influenza. but in view of the who recommendation, i do not think that any other course of action could have been taken. however, this case needs to be reflected on and i agree with the rapporteur when she points out that the eu needs greater cooperation between its member states, more independence and more transparency, particularly in assessing the cost-benefit of these measures of great financial impact.
in writing. - i support the outcome of the commission's vote in favour of the appointment of harald wogerbauer as a new member of the court of auditors, based on a positive assessment of his curriculum vitae and the written replies given by him in the questionnaire submitted to candidates for that post.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an independent audit institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed mr wogerbauer to the court of auditors. he submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties in a competent and independent manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of harald wögerbauer as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr harald wögerbauer as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it is necessary to incorporate into a single community legislative act several recommendations adopted by the gfcm and already in force in the gfcm contracting countries. this simplification is required to avoid the production of annual regulatory adequacy regulations, as has been the case.
in writing. - endorses the draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on certain provisions applicable to fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement area; in order to avoid usurping parliament's powers, article 28 of the proposal should be deleted, which stipulates that the provisions of the regulation should be amended in accordance with a comitology procedure which reduces parliament's role to merely receiving information from the commission on the procedures of the management committees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'agreement area of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) ' as it transposes recommendations adopted by the gfcm and already operational in the gfcm countries into a single community legislative act.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) has been adopting recommendations at its annual meetings. the present proposal for a regulation merely transposes some of these adopted recommendations into a single community legislative act, to which future recommendations may also be added. the content and obligations of recommendations adopted by the cgpm are often covered in whole or in part by previously adopted community legislation, with only those aspects that differ from it having to be transposed. the regulation adopted will apply to all commercial fishing and aquaculture activities carried out by community fishing vessels and nationals of member states in the gfcm area. it no longer applies to fishing operations carried out solely for the purpose of scientific research and carried out with the authorisation and under the authority of a member state. in this case, only the european commission and the member states in whose waters the activity is carried out should be informed in advance. i believe that the commission's proposal could call into question parliament's powers in this area, in particular article 28 thereof, and that it should be replaced in such a way as to ensure the effective participation of this house in future amendments to the regulation and respect for its prerogatives.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transposition of certain recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm). the transformation of this agreement into a single community legislative act is a significant step forward and allows for improved control of catches of fishery species in the waters covered, as well as cooperation, information and communication between the european commission, the member states and the gfcm executive secretariat. given that it is a matter of simplifying procedures - ending the existence of annual regulations - and that these recommendations are already operational in the countries that are members of the gfcm, i commend this initiative to which i fully agree and i hope that this regulation will be well implemented.
in writing. − we recognise and value the importance of multilateral cooperation in promoting the good conservation and management of marine biological resources - the subject of this agreement. however, the proposal for a regulation which has been adopted contains a provision which we consider unacceptable and which we have tried to correct by proposing the deletion of one paragraph of article 28. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is intended that the commission may adopt delegated acts which may have effects on an area belonging to the exclusive economic zone (eez) of a member state. the area is known as eratosthenes seamount and belongs to the eez of the republic of cyprus. this possibility is in conflict with the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus, especially in a politically highly sensitive area, given that the area in question is unlawfully disputed by a third country which is a candidate for accession. the seabed of this area contains natural resources in its subsoil which the republic of cyprus has a legitimate right to exploit - in accordance with the united nations convention on the law of the sea. in this respect, the eu's competence should not extend beyond matters relating to the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − we have always attached the greatest importance to multilateral cooperation in promoting the good conservation and management of marine biological resources, which is the subject of this agreement. but the proposal for a regulation which has been adopted contains a provision which we consider unacceptable and which we have tried to correct by proposing the deletion of one paragraph of article 28. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the sovereignty of the republic of cyprus is at stake, and this is a highly sensitive area from a political point of view, given that the area in question is unlawfully disputed by a third country which is a candidate for accession. the seabed of this area contains natural resources in its subsoil which the republic of cyprus has a legitimate right to exploit in accordance with the united nations convention on the law of the sea. in this respect, the eu's competence should not extend beyond matters relating to the common fisheries policy.
in writing. the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) was established in 1949 by an international agreement. its area of competence covers the mediterranean, the black sea and adjacent waters, the promotion of the development, conservation and management of marine biological resources, the formulation and recommendation of conservation measures and the promotion of cooperation projects in the field of training. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is simply to transpose some recommendations adopted by the gfcm and already operational in the gfcm countries into a single community legislative act, to which future recommendations may be added by amendment.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report because it is intended to trigger a new taxation process in the financial sector, which is an urgent measure in itself and also a complement to the recently adopted regulatory and supervisory instruments. in this area, i would stress that 'the taxable base for the financial transaction tax should be as broad as possible', as the document suggests, so as to include all types of transaction. among other benefits, an itf makes the market fairer and more transparent, reduces speculation and tax evasion levels, and distributes the burden of the crisis among financial actors. the additional resources from this measure should help to fight poverty, promote job creation, finance the welfare state, achieve climate and environmental objectives and finance others stemming from the europe 2020 strategy. i, for my part, support the need for the commission to study a future system of eurobonds and the issuing of common european project bonds as measures to stimulate investment. i also support the polluter pays principle. finally, we cannot neglect development aid, and it is important to keep the commitment to allocate 0.7% of each member state's gnp to oda.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution because i agree with the commission's objective of increasing the volume of the eu budget through the use of innovative fiscal instruments, recognising the potential benefits of increasing private sector financing with public funds. i also believe that such measures should be accompanied by transparent accountability, combined with investment guidelines, risk management, exposure limits and appropriate control and supervision processes, established in a democratically accountable manner.
in writing. - i support the podimata report on innovative finance with reservations. i share the rapporteur's concern about the economic and financial crisis we are going through and its consequences for the lack of investment. i also agree that it is desirable that investment should translate into more progress and innovation and that europe needs to increase its capacity for smart investment. i am afraid that, as a whole, the report seems excessively inclined towards raising taxes and charges when in different countries (such as portugal) we are already seeing an overdose of tax burdens. the final version of the report ends by encouraging the introduction of a financial transaction tax (at global or at least european level), while admitting that it is necessary to study its consequences (for which i am planning an ex post study). i welcome the defence of the launch of eurobonds, which would facilitate market access for the weaker euro countries, and the view that this would be beneficial 'for all participating member states and for the euro area as a whole'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for advocating the creation of specific instruments, such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which can help to improve market efficiency, increase transparency, reduce excessive price volatility and create incentives for the financial sector to make long-term investments with added value for the real economy.
in writing. − this report focuses on the need to find new ways of financing the public sector at global and european level. in fact, the current economic and financial crisis has forced member states to look for revenue to mitigate budgetary crises. among the new means of financing are taxation of the financial sector and co2 emissions. in recent times, the financial sector has been distorting its objectives of financing the economy in order to develop it, but, under the pretext of needing to cover risks, it raises rates and immediately obtains huge profits that seriously affect public finances and citizens. on the other hand, a tax on co2 emissions will make the polluter-pays principle fairer and more consistent, contributing not only to reducing climate change but also to financing investment projects in this area. i agree with the idea of a global financial transaction tax. i believe that its introduction at european level should be preceded by an impact study. i also support the introduction of eurobonds as a common debt management instrument.
in writing. - this report is about innovative financing. but it doesn't really come out of the old, stale positions of refusing the most elementary justice. the financial market should have been effectively controlled and regulated long ago. speculation should have been curbed long ago - whether it was on commodities, including food, real estate, pensions and pensions, or sovereign debts of states (just to name a few). but the european commission is adamant that it will not go ahead with these proposals. even though the financial damage caused by tax evasion and fraud in europe is estimated at between 200 and 250 billion euros a year, enough to reduce public deficits without having to raise taxes on labour - the old solution. the commission is also adamant that it will not introduce a financial transaction tax at eu level and that it will not push for its adoption at world level. the same applies to the scandalous persistence of tax havens. they would be ways to raise revenue to fight poverty and other persistent economic and social problems. current estimates of revenue generation from a financial transaction tax, even at the reduced rate, indicate that it would generate around eur 200 billion per year at eu level.
in writing. - effective control and regulation of the capital market has long been required, preventing speculation on a wide range of products, from raw materials to real estate transactions, pensions, pensions and insurance, with a whole range of derivative products, including sovereign debt itself. unfortunately, the european commission has not moved forward with these proposals when it is known that the financial damage caused by tax evasion and fraud in europe is estimated at between 200 and 250 billion euros per year, which alone would be enough to reduce public deficits without the need to increase taxes on labour. but if we also had taxes on financial transactions at world level and therefore also in the european union, in addition to the end of tax havens and speculative financial products, we would still have superior values to deal with economic and social problems. current estimates of revenue generation from a financial transaction tax, even at the reduced rate, indicate that it would generate around eur 200 billion per year at the level of the european union. in this context, we cannot accept that a clear position on the creation of a financial transaction tax be postponed on the pretext of further studies and new assessments.
in writing. - while i agree with much of the content of this report, i could not vote for it after the introduction of a financial transaction tax (global or at least european) but i do accept that its consequences need to be studied (for which i am planning an a posteriori study). the party i represent has always fought in portugal against the introduction of this financial transaction tax, because of the harmful effect it could have on the financial markets. portugal is exhausted and unable to cope with the additional tax burden, since this tax would ultimately be borne by the citizens, as the financial institutions would reflect it on the customers. the introduction of such a tax at european level alone may lead to other markets having competitive advantages over european financial markets.
in writing. − this report is about innovative financing measures at global and european level. this is to outline measures to address the serious weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the global financial system that were revealed by the global economic and financial crisis of 2007-2009. financial transactions are characterised today by a huge increase in volume and a marked discrepancy between the volume of financial transactions and the needs associated with them in the real world. new trading models, such as short-term investing and automated high-frequency trading, which have taken a central role in global financial trends and have led to excessive volatility and risk-taking, deserve the attention of policymakers. these are sufficient reasons for the european parliament, within the framework of its powers, to make its contribution and indicate the measures it considers appropriate to resolve the situation.
in writing. − in order to cope with the global financial crisis and the ensuing deep recession, several governments have increased sovereign debt to unsustainable levels in order to bail out financial firms and stimulate their economies. at the same time, banks accumulate profits through the difference between the loans they obtain from the central bank at a near-zero interest rate and the price at which they grant credit to their customers and to the states. it is therefore a moral imperative that the financial business take responsibility for the crisis it has caused. a financial transaction tax is the minimum required. to those who wish to postpone this responsibility, on the pretext that such a tax can only be introduced on a global scale, i say: (1) that the eu's position would be strongly strengthened by the unilateral launch of the said tax; (2) if some of the capital invested in speculative transactions were to leave the eu, this would result in a reduction in financial market volatility, which is beneficial; (3) if overall financial regulation is neither feasible nor prudent, sensible rules on capital movements are needed. the report goes in that direction.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has revealed the serious weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the global financial system. new instruments are needed to respond to the crisis, which can stop speculation and restore the role of the financial sector, ensure fair burden sharing and create new additional resources to address global challenges such as climate change, the development goals and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth under the eu2020 strategy. this own-initiative report is intended to find new and innovative sources of funding. the revenue-based taxation instruments are considered to be insufficient. the document explores the following innovative financing possibilities: taxation of the financial sector, eurobonds and taxation of the energy sector. in my view, it is essential to innovate in terms of alternative means of financing that are up to the challenges of today and in line with the world today, but it is unwise to do so without first studying their actual impact. as important as increasing revenues is the need to step up the regulatory role of the market by creating mechanisms that can enhance its transparency, efficiency and stability. for these reasons i voted in favour of the document in plenary.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because the importance of reducing health inequalities is intrinsically linked to the reduction of social inequalities, as this report points out. health inequalities start at an early age and continue throughout life, as they are also reproduced in other generations. in this sense, the member states have a duty to adopt the health principle in all their policies. i also strongly support the rapporteur's recommendations that universal access to health care, including for undocumented migrants, and access to social protection for pregnant women, in accordance with the legislation in their countries, should be promoted.
in writing. − european citizens are now living longer and healthier lives. although average levels of health in the european union have improved over time, health disparities between and within member states still exist in europe, and these disparities are likely to increase due to the current economic, financial and social crisis. as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i pointed out the need to find solutions. these will necessarily involve all the actors: the european union, national governments, regional and local authorities and the social economy. the challenges facing the european union as a result of demographic change call for a concrete plan to tackle health inequalities in rural areas. strengthening the mechanism for the recognition of qualifications will facilitate the circulation of skills in the eu and the mobility of professionals. campaigns on the promotion of healthy lifestyles and prevention and screening programmes targeted at specific groups are also important in reducing health inequalities. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i share the view of rapporteur edite estrela that there are huge disparities in health, both between people living in different regions of the eu and between the more and less privileged groups of the population. these inequalities tend to start at birth and eventually persist into old age, influenced throughout life by access to education, employment, health care, and can be exacerbated by differences based on gender and race. reducing the size of existing disparities, which call into question the eu's commitments to solidarity, social and economic cohesion, human rights and equal opportunities, is essential and therefore one of the priority actions of the eu health strategy 2008-2013. it should, however, be recognised that health policy is a matter for the member states and that they have the responsibility for defining their systems for providing access to health care. the report provides for a number of interesting measures but avoids equating their financial impact. i also regret the introduction of the question of abortion, which is a matter for national rather than european competence.
in writing. − although the report contains provisions which i consider to be of the greatest relevance on the growing importance of health care for the elderly and the need to develop a deeper understanding of the pathologies which affect the elderly in particular, it generically brings little new information. in fact, by wanting to talk about everything, it ends up becoming a 'catalogue of intentions' in which the rapporteur, under the pretext of 'reducing inequalities in health', brings together such diverse subjects - and unrelated to equal access to health - as domestic violence, the pharmaceutical sector inquiry, the policies of the states with regard to voluntary termination of pregnancy and access to fertility treatment for homosexuals. i do not think that is the context in which they should be dealt with. we know that access to abortion and assisted reproduction for homosexual couples is a controversial issue in the states and only they should be able to decide freely on them. for this reason too, i cannot vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − health and life expectancy are closely linked to social conditions. it is essential that reducing inequalities is considered a key priority at all levels of policy action, thus pursuing the health strategy in all policies and ensuring effective impact assessments. indeed, inequalities persist, as evidenced by the fact that life expectancy at birth in 2007 varied by 14.2 years for men and 8.3 years for women between member states. universal access to health systems and affordable health care for all needs to be improved. it is important to improve access to disease prevention, health promotion, as well as to primary and specialised health services, and to reduce inequalities between different social groups. however, i did not vote in favour of the report because i do not agree with paragraph 29 and i quote urges the eu and the member states to take the necessary measures in terms of access to assisted reproductive technologies (art) in order to eliminate discrimination against women on grounds of marital status, age, sexual orientation or ethnic or cultural origin.
in writing. - the report contains a set of guidelines which we consider valid and fair. we cannot, however, fail to make some repairs. the so-called austerity policies, which are profoundly anti-social in their essence and content, with cuts in public investment, in the social functions of the state - particularly in health - among other extremely damaging consequences from an economic and social point of view, are also increasing inequalities in the area of health. when, in the name of the need to reduce the budget deficit, rates of access to public health services are increased, medicines are increased, even for chronic diseases, by reducing public co-financing, support for the transport of patients for treatment and health consultations is eliminated where there is no public transport, health inequalities are being aggravated, as is currently the case in portugal. in fact, people with lower incomes have increasingly difficulty in accessing health care. more than mere words, what is needed is a real change in the content of policies. we must put an end to neoliberal policies and ensure effective equality of opportunity, including in access to health care.
in writing. - this report addresses a number of important issues, but does not go into the depths of the problems that are currently being caused by austerity policies and anti-social policies that increase health inequalities. so, words are not enough! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of health care in the member states. the stability pact must be abolished to prevent the need to reduce the budget deficit from increasing access to public health services, increasing medicines, even for chronic diseases, and eliminating support for the transport of patients for treatment and health consultations, even in areas where there is no public transport. we know that the result of these policies is the increase in health inequalities, as is happening right now in portugal. people on lower incomes have increasingly difficulty in accessing health care. so more than just fine words, we need a break and a change of policies to give priority to respect for human rights and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. − this report highlights health inequalities between eu citizens, men and women, young and old, which are linked to a wide range of factors: economic, social, educational, occupational contexts, living conditions. it emphasises the importance of maintaining and improving universality and access to high-quality healthcare for all, including, among other vulnerable groups, undocumented immigrants. it points out that the economic and financial crisis and the austerity measures imposed by the member states have had a serious impact on the health sector and that this will lead to further inequalities. the report calls on the commission and the member states to develop a common set of indicators to monitor health inequalities and to pursue the 'health in all policies' strategy. it also stresses the importance of preventive action and a 'local care approach'. in view of the above and in order to encourage the suggestions contained in the report, i voted in favour.
in writing. the report we have voted on deals with some important issues, particularly as regards the defence of equal health care for all, which unfortunately is not yet the case in the eu, particularly among the most disadvantaged populations such as children, the elderly and women in some cases. however, and in my opinion, many other subjects are dealt with that have nothing to do with health. however, what shocks me most is the way in which the policies of the states are approached with regard to voluntary termination of pregnancy and access to fertility treatment for homosexuals, which in my view should respect the principle of subsidiarity and be treated in a less discriminatory way. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. − this report on reducing health inequalities in the eu presents a number of measures which i consider to be worthwhile and important. however, i abstained in the final vote on the report because i could not agree with the duty of the eu and the member states to guarantee women full free access to abortion. the investment must always be made in family planning and contraception, with abortion being a last resort for exceptional situations. i also do not believe that assisted reproductive technologies (art) should be open access, but should be subordinated to the principle of subsidiarity and should never be used as a tool for eliminating discrimination against women on grounds of marital status, age, sexual orientation or ethnic or cultural origin.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work. we have a duty to transfer our experience of economic governance so that developing countries can establish their own tax systems. only in this way will it be possible to create a fairer, more equitable and sustainable tax system, to combat tax evasion and, consequently, to promote a better international tax environment. i would also like to stress the importance of this report in calling attention to the urgency of ending tax havens, a key measure in the area of transparency which will allow for the necessary automatic exchange of information in the tax field.
in writing. - the increasing globalisation of markets and the movement of taxpayers has made taxation a complicated issue today. the situation in developing countries is more complex and difficult to correct, due to internal factors such as the large informal sectors, the predominance of agriculture and the limited use of new technologies. i welcome the commission's initiative to cooperate with these countries to promote good governance in tax matters, through a report identifying the main problems and solutions, in order to promote synergies between tax policy and development policy, making both more efficient.
in writing. − the existence of efficient, transparent and equitable tax systems is crucial for the development of the developing countries as it contributes to the financing of their public assets, the sustainability of their institutions, the reduction of dependence on external aid and the achievement of the millennium development goals. in this context, i believe that the eu should, on the one hand, focus on the fight against tax havens and tax evasion (which weaken the political and economic system in developing countries by encouraging economic crime and inequality in the redistribution of tax revenues) and, on the other hand, establish a process of cooperation and dialogue with the tax administrations of these countries. i would also like to stress the importance of widening the tax base in these countries. it should be noted that the tax systems of developing countries are characterised by a system based on indirect taxation (where most of the revenue is derived from the taxation of goods and services), which constrains the collection of tax revenue and results in the inefficiency of these systems. efforts should be concentrated on the development of direct taxation. the need to promote coherence between development policy and the european union's trade policy is equally important.
in writing. − this report is based on a commission document which recognises the link between the achievement of the millennium development goals and good fiscal governance. the report aims to promote greater synergies between fiscal policy and development policy, making both more efficient, and identifies the difficulties in developing countries in mobilising tax revenue. the report also proposes ways for the union to improve the use of existing funds and instruments. stresses the importance of supporting effective and sustainable tax systems, including by combating tax fraud and evasion, in order to contribute to a transparent and fair international tax environment, including in helping to combat tax havens. indeed, it is through good economic governance that these countries will be able to replace dependence on external aid, contributing to the development of the public and private sectors and economic growth.
in writing. - this report deals with taxation and development in developing countries. to achieve the objectives set by the un in 2000 in the millennium declaration, these countries must be able to promote good governance in tax matters, maximising all external support. the european commission, interested in cooperation with these countries, published in 2009 the document taxation and development cooperation with developing countries to promote good governance in tax matters, aiming to promote synergies between development policy and tax policy in order to make them fairer, more transparent and more effective. the same resolution was adopted by the ep in 2010. the eu is aware that fairer and more coherent tax systems will help reduce poverty and compensate for some lost revenue. i therefore support this report which calls for an end to tax havens - the real weapons of destruction for developing countries - fights economic crime, prevents tax evasion and unfair competition, and promotes development through good governance.
in writing. the report identifies a number of relevant and topical issues, including: - making the fight against tax havens and corruption a top priority; - the difficulties faced by developing countries in collecting revenue at home, given that multiple exemptions are granted to large domestic and foreign companies to attract investment; - the tax on international financial transactions, with 'an eu-wide first step'; - low-income countries need the capacity to negotiate efficiently with multinational companies in order to impose capital controls and to be able to exercise their full sovereignty. this report is not without contradictions, however, particularly when, in identifying the problems which will arise from the application of the epas, particularly as regards the reduction of tax revenue, it does not take a clear position in rejecting them. it has no substantive position on the responsibilities of the world bank, the imf and the wto in promoting policies which promote the destruction of the productive machinery and public services, create unemployment and weaken the internal markets of these countries, thus further weakening their tax revenues, their budgets, their sovereignty and independence.
in writing. - while recognising that cooperation in the field of taxation can be important, it must not be overlooked that tax policy is a fundamental instrument of economic and social policy, in the definition of which obvious political criteria and assessments are important. it is not therefore the european union's job to export what is known as good governance in the tax field. the sovereignty of developing countries, their choices and options, taking into account their specific situation and conditions, must be fully respected. however, the so-called economic partnership agreements, which have been imposed on developing countries despite their resistance, in addition to other serious disadvantages, place a very heavy burden on their tax systems by the significant reduction in customs revenue that they imply. on the other hand, tax havens, which are still there, lead to the loss of very high revenues for developing countries every year. the european union must therefore change its policies and resolve these contradictions.
in writing. - it is a fact that poor fiscal governance is detrimental to the good economic performance of member states. the commission now recognises the link between the achievement of the millennium development goals and good fiscal governance. it is therefore imperative to combat tax evasion and to take concrete steps to harmonise these measures across the eu, as it is known that some countries are more effective than others in combating tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on taxation and development cooperation with developing countries to promote good governance in tax matters, as i consider it, as does the rapporteur, to be important for the development of an efficient tax system in developing countries. the tax system must become the central structure of public finances in developing countries. the new eu investment policy in developing countries should contribute to the establishment of a more favourable environment for domestic and foreign private investment and to the creation of conditions for more effective international assistance. in fact, to promote growth, eu investment policy should focus on the development of smes, including microcredit, the efficiency of public services, public-private partnerships and knowledge transfer. the european commission working paper published in april 2009 entitled 'taxation and development cooperation with developing countries to promote good governance in tax matters' provides guidance and methodologies for promoting synergies between tax policy and development policy to make both more efficient.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it clearly recognises the link between the achievement of the mdgs and fiscal governance, that taxation through a progressive tax regime is essential for democracy, that offshore centres and tax havens target illicit capital flight which, combined with zero tax regimes to attract funds and investment, result in a transfer of burdens to lower income workers and families by reducing the quality and quantity of public services in poor countries as well as their ability to combat poverty. assisting the judicial and anti-corruption authorities and services of developing countries in their efforts to develop progressive tax systems would be an excellent service provided by the eu.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing the importance of the recommendations of the papastamkos report, which recalls that non-trade aspects (ntas) should be better incorporated into the wto negotiations. the need for some coherence between the cap and the eu's external trade policy is clear, it is essential to ensure a level playing field for eu producers on the world market, which should not promote unfair competition. if this is not negotiated, european farmers will continue to face unfair competition and will suffer losses and discrimination vis-à-vis competitors outside the european union.
in writing. - i agree with the need for greater coherence between the cap and external trade policy in order to ensure the european agricultural model and, therefore, the equal conditions of european producers vis-à-vis the world market. it is essential to reconcile commercial and non-commercial concerns and to achieve the necessary regulatory convergence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'agriculture and international trade' because it stresses the importance of integrating non-trade aspects into the development of the doha agenda, such as social, environmental, human health and animal health and welfare considerations, in order to achieve the highest environmental and social standards and to avoid a decline in the competitiveness of eu farmers in the context of world agricultural production.
in writing. - agriculture has social functions which go beyond the mere limits of food production, such as the settlement and planning of the territory, the protection of the environment and the preservation of the cultural traditions of the peoples. i believe that they are very much deserving of protection and follow-up by the member states and the european institutions. despite my principled position in favour of greater market opening, i believe that in the agricultural sector particular rigour must be shown in the requirements of reciprocity and the need to ensure food safety for european consumers. the european union must bear in mind the need to balance the conflicting values and, especially in the current economic and financial crisis, take account of the impact of the trade agreements it concludes on the lives of european farmers and their holdings.
in writing. - one of the sectors most affected by the free movement of persons and goods was agriculture. despite the constant changes to the common agricultural policy (cap) - seen as a symbol of european integration - the sector remains in a highly precarious situation, having to comply with stringent standards of environmental protection and product safety - aggravated by the current financial crisis. this is a sector which is intersecting with other areas such as trade, the environment, industry, transport, etc., which make it very difficult to adopt a regulatory framework which satisfies all the parties involved. despite progress such as the sps (sanitary and phytosanitary measures) and tbt (technical barriers to trade) agreements, much remains to be done. i endorse this report because it recognises the key role of the agri-food sector within the eu and that it is a very sensitive sector which cannot face aggressive competition - which will have to be taken into account when new agreements are signed. i hope, however, that the new economic framework of the cap will improve the coordination between productivity and the international market.
in writing. - this is a report full of contradictions. it points to the negative consequences of trade liberalisation, but does not oppose the course of policies which are at the root of the main problems of agriculture in eu countries (and also in developing countries). nothing is proposed to change that course. it rightly criticises the commission's approach which puts agricultural interests behind the interests of industry and the service sector, which makes concessions on agriculture in order to gain greater market access in third countries. he gives examples of the disastrous consequences of this policy - the case of sugar is paradigmatic. it recognises that greater liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products, enhanced by wto agreements, has so far not been able to sustain the threat of hunger in the world. but it does not condemn or oppose this trend towards deeper liberalization and deregulation of world trade, which the eu has been promoting, whether in the framework of the wto or in the framework of numerous bilateral agreements. on the contrary, defend him. the criticism and denunciation of the failure of neoliberal policies has been going on for a long time. the report does so, albeit in a very nuanced and sometimes ambiguous way. then they come back to bail out the disaster policy. we consider it unacceptable.
in writing. - we already know many examples of the disastrous consequences of the liberalization of world trade in the agricultural sector. but this report draws attention to several cases, not hiding that agriculture has been used as a bargaining chip in favour of other interests in the wto negotiations, in particular the interests of the large service groups and international trade and some high-tech industries. we therefore advocate other solutions, since the report was not consistent. we want international trade to be guided by a logic of complementarity and not of competition - between countries, producers and products. we want an agriculture geared to safeguarding the food sovereignty and security of each country, which counters the dangerous anarchy of production towards a liberalised market.
in writing. - this report underlines that the eu has a duty to contribute to world food security, and i congratulate it on this. however, despite mentioning several of the harmful consequences of market liberalisation in agriculture, the solutions they point to are again in the direction of strengthening free trade, subordinating agricultural policies to the interests of the wto. the report explicitly threatens argentina for not complying with the wto by restricting imports of food products that compete with domestic production. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the situation in brazil is not precisely described. i therefore voted against this report, since it gives priority to liberalization and competition on agricultural markets.
in writing. - agricultural products are an essential part of international trade and should therefore be recognised as such. there is no doubt, therefore, that the steady rise in food prices, as a consequence of increases in raw materials, is an increasingly pressing concern of the eu. on the other hand, the agricultural sector has to meet the food needs of an increasing number of people, despite facing increasingly limited natural resources and high prices of production factors, as well as environmental and resource conservation concerns, especially in developed economies, which can lead to distortions of competition. in view of future needs, there is no doubt that agriculture must become a strategic sector, i would even say a crucial one, for the economic development of the eu and the world.
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament resolution on 'agriculture and international trade' because i believe that it subordinates the union's trade policy entirely to agricultural policy, when it is well known that only trade policy can guarantee access to external markets for our industry, our services and even our agriculture, access which is essential for economic growth and job creation in the union. if the political orientation of this resolution is followed in future, it will be virtually impossible to conclude trade agreements with countries or regions with an agricultural dimension, such as brazil or india. the common commercial policy - which concerns the whole of the union and all the member states - cannot be completely hostage to the interests of the agricultural sector, which, moreover, concerns a limited number of member states. i also regret that this resolution, in the case of brazil, contains completely unfounded accusations, as has been amply demonstrated by the brazilian side.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it clearly defends the interests of european farmers in the context of international trade. i believe that external trade policy should not undermine the eu's ability to maintain a strong agricultural sector and to ensure food security in a context of increased market volatility. the commission, however, often gives in to the interests of agriculture in order to achieve greater market access in third countries for industrial products and services. in addition, it should be borne in mind that the european agricultural sector is obliged to respect the highest standards in terms of quality, product hygiene, sustainable production methods, plant and animal health and welfare, traceability, pesticide residue control, veterinary medicine and additives - all of which are cost-intensive aspects of production and which should be taken into account in multilateral and bilateral negotiations. in general terms, i believe that decisions should not be taken to open up the community market to imports of agricultural products without first carrying out impact studies and ensuring that eu farmers are compensated for their losses.
in writing. − the balance between the common agricultural, development and trade policies is fundamental for the european union. the european agricultural sector deserves particular attention. the cap is the oldest community policy and must remain strong. i would like to remind you of the multifunctional role of this sector and its necessary link with other social and political objectives, such as the eu2020 objectives. european agriculture is not, however, isolated from european external relations, particularly in the fields of international trade and development aid. the importance of international relations, particularly through agreements such as the eu and mercosur, is reflected at the economic, political and strategic partnership levels. it is therefore essential to promote regulatory coherence, particularly in the field of agricultural issues. that is why i voted against paragraphs 53 and 54 of the document. in addition, their free trade agreements expose the sector to new challenges and different realities. i would mention the situation of the outermost regions, which have a fragile economy based mainly on agriculture, with production similar to that of their latin american partners. as a member of the european parliament from an outermost region, i would stress the importance of taking account of the specific features of these regions and of trying to avoid compromising their development in the course of future negotiations.
in writing. - i approve this report as i agree that the commission needs to include in the cap reform appropriate and precise measures on instruments which support farmers by improving crop rotation. reducing the protein deficit in the eu must be an essential element in reforming the cap for the benefit of european farmers and the internal market. such measures are extremely useful in view of the fact that protein crops in the eu currently occupy only 3% of arable land and the fact that the eu imports 40 million tonnes of protein crops, which represent 80% of its internal consumption.
in writing. − in view of the decline in protein production in the eu over the last 10 years, there is an urgent need to combat the risk of dependence on international markets and their price volatility. i therefore support the reforms in the cap to introduce new provisions which, in addition to supporting farmers in improving crop rotation systems, promote services and scientific research to support the harvesting of proteaginous seeds. i would also like to mention the importance of a decentralised approach to research programmes which takes account of local farmers' knowledge and sustainable farming systems. i therefore support the proposal to the commission to consider the re-establishment of an agricultural research unit in the directorate-general for agriculture and rural development.
in writing. - according to data in this report, the production of protein crops in the european union has decreased by 30% over the last ten years. the rapporteur adds that 'in the eu, total protein crop production currently occupies only 3% of arable land. despite public support, production of dried legumes declined again to about one million hectares in 2008. more than 40 million tonnes of protein crops are imported annually, representing 80% of protein crop consumption in the eu. "these numbers should be enough to get the attention of political leaders and justify a change in policy. at a time when food prices are reaching historic highs, putting food security at risk, the european union, which is reviewing the cap, cannot but look at the problem of protein crops and try to find a solution. this must necessarily involve greater investment in this crop, which, in addition to reducing imports, improves agriculture's contribution to environmental protection, since protein crops can substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - according to recent data released by the european commission, the production of high-protein crops in the european union has suffered a huge decline of around 30%, which shows that something has gone wrong with the common agricultural policy (cap). this situation forces the eu to import more than 40 million tonnes of protein crops and is due to commitments from the past, such as the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) and the blair house agreement, which allowed the import of oilseeds and protein crops free of customs duties. recent climate change has put this issue on the agenda and made it an important element in the cap reform that is expected soon. the cultivation of protein crops, combined with a large rotation of other crops, brings great benefits, not only in environmental terms, but also in terms of cost reduction, as it enriches the soils with respect to nitrogen. i am voting in favour of this report, which aims to reduce the protein deficit in the eu, and i hope that its recommendations, such as support for farmers who want to switch to protein crops and crop rotation, will be taken into account in the preparation of the new cap.
in writing. − the protein deficit in europe and the imbalance between animal and vegetable protein production is a growing problem, with effects on changing human consumption habits, food quality and safety and the crisis facing livestock farmers. the rapporteur is coming up with figures which are illuminating and worrying. numbers that require attention to the problem and specific measures to solve it. these imbalances are rooted in the existing agricultural and trade policies and will not be resolved without a fundamental change in both - a fact which the report omits. the overcoming of the current deficits and imbalances must be based on support for the increase and diversification of protein crops and a policy of progressive import substitution. the report recognises this need and points to some important measures, which we value, such as the creation of market conditions favourable to local production, marketing and consumption and the promotion of short supply chains free of gmos. but at the same time it opens the door to solutions which we regard with concern and which we cannot accept, such as the lifting of the zero tolerance for the presence of gmos in imported animal feed, putting into question the strict application of the precautionary principle.
in writing. - this report seeks to respond to the problem of the protein deficit in europe and the imbalance between animal and vegetable protein production, which, as we know, is a growing problem with effects on changing human consumption habits, food quality and safety and the crisis facing livestock farmers. the imbalances are rooted in the existing agricultural and trade policies and will not be resolved without a fundamental change in both, which the report unfortunately omits. we believe that the overcoming of the present deficits and imbalances must be based on support for the increase and diversification of protein crops and a policy of gradual import substitution. while the report acknowledges this need and points to some important measures, which we appreciate, it nevertheless opens the door to solutions which we regard with concern and which we cannot accept, such as the lifting of the zero tolerance for the presence of gmos in imported animal feed, calling into question the strict application of the precautionary principle.
in writing. − it is essential to increase the production of protein-rich plants in order to reduce dependence on imported soya, maintain food security and benefit the environment. scientific studies are available demonstrating the environmental benefits of protein crops in terms of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as improvement of biodiversity and soil quality. it is very worrying that only 3% of european agricultural production is protein crops. it is not acceptable that we import 80% of our needs. it is therefore very important that in the next support framework, the cap post 2013, measures are taken to change this situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the hausling report (a7-0026/2011), as it advocates a supply of protein for animal feed in the eu, a problem which over the years has contributed to a lack of competitiveness of european agriculture. over the last ten years the production of protein crops has been showing a worrying deficit and the situation is currently declining considerably in the european union. the main dry legumes showed a decrease of 30% on average; in the case of soya beans, the value is 12%. this trend exacerbates the union's already alarming dependence on imports of protein crops, mainly used in animal feed, and poses major risks, in particular for the eu livestock sector, a problem exacerbated by price volatility on international markets. it is a priority for the commission to ensure, as a matter of urgency, an unhindered supply of soya beans by presenting a technical solution concerning the low level of gmos in protein crops for food and feed imported into the eu. insufficient imports of soya impose additional costs on the eu livestock and feed sectors and undermine the economic viability of domestic meat production.
in writing. − i approve this 2010 annual report on gender equality in the eu and the recommendations it makes. the current crisis has had a devastating effect on women, although male-dominated occupational sectors have been hit the hardest. i would also point out that there is still a gender pay gap of 18% in the eu, despite the fact that there are more women than men in the workforce. as the main measures that need to be taken, i would stress the development of equality plans and the fight against domestic violence, with the establishment of a european year devoted to this subject.
in writing. − equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles of community law. the objectives of the european union are to ensure equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women and to combat all discrimination based on sex. despite all the efforts made in the european union to achieve equality between men and women, inequalities still exist in this area. the employment rate for women (58.6%) remains lower than for men (70.7%), despite the fact that the majority of students and university graduates are women. in the eu, only one in ten board members of companies is a woman and only 3% of ceos are female. the gender pay gap remains at an average of 18% in the eu. if europe is to achieve the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion, it will have to continue to combat the still existing inequalities between men and women, which is why i supported this report.
in writing. - i voted against this because, although i agree with many of the points adopted, there are aspects which, in my view, should be deleted. working conditions and access to employment for women have become more difficult in the wake of the crisis we are living in. i therefore agree with the subject dealt with in the european commission report on the need to mainstream gender equality in all policies and in the early education of european children. the fight against violence against women must also continue through awareness campaigns and school education. i do not agree, however, with quotas in the private sector, lists of vulnerable women and the guarantee of a minimum wage, which i consider impossible to implement.
in writing. - on 8 march, international women's day, i would like to congratulate ms mariya nedelcheva on her report on equality between men and women. i share your analysis that women have been particularly affected by the economic and financial crisis we are going through. all indications are that in employment, health, education, social support and other sectors, women will feel the consequences of the crisis more strongly and for longer than men. in terms of income levels, working and recruitment conditions and access to work, the situation of women appears to be deteriorating more rapidly than that of men. in this regard, it is important to create new opportunities and strengthen gender equality synergies, helping to stimulate recovery and economic growth itself. i welcome the reference to the fight against poverty (as 2010 was the european year for the eradication of poverty), with particular attention to the most vulnerable women. i regret that the parliamentary left has also introduced the abortion controversy here, without taking account of the community's powers.
in writing. as i have said before in this house, 'men and women must be treated equally, given the same rights but with special consideration for their needs, which in the case of women is particularly evident in areas such as maternity protection and the reconciliation of work and family life ...'. i am therefore pleased to note that among other things there is concern about the protection of mothers and the support of the elderly at home, which are often the responsibility of women within the family, making it difficult for them to enter the workforce. but unlike the rapporteur, whose views are very clear, i do not agree that gender equality is achieved through quota systems. quotas are the undermining of women, who are promoted to certain positions solely on the basis of their gender and not on the basis of their competence, ability or appetite. the commission's intention to apply them to private undertakings is therefore inadmissible. finally, as a staunch supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that many of the issues discussed in this report, although important and relevant, should remain within the sphere of the autonomy of the states. that is also why i did not vote in favour.
in writing. − this report aims to help accelerate the process of creating equal conditions for men and women in the european union. on this occasion, which marks the centenary of international women's day, i would like to salute all the women who, over the past hundred years, have fought for the recognition of women's rights and for gender equality. a word of solidarity to all women victims of violence and to all those who have recently in the middle east and north africa been fighting for the self-determination of their peoples. the eu has always been at the forefront of defending women's rights, and i therefore welcome the adoption of this document which aims to put an end to many of the disparities that still persist, such as pay gaps, access to education and employment, difficulties in reconciling personal and professional life and the removal of women from decision-making positions. i hope that the eu will move from theory to practice and enable women to show their worth.
in writing. − it is particularly significant that this year this report - which seeks to draw attention to persistent inequalities and discrimination - is discussed and voted on on international women's day, which marks its centenary in 2011. there have been many battles fought over the last 100 years. many achievements have also been made. but they have not been sufficient to eliminate existing inequalities, discrimination in access to work with rights, wage inequalities reflected in reforms, the difficulty of career progression and professional achievement, the obstacles to access to management and decision-making positions in economic, social and political activity, a situation which tends to worsen in times of economic and social crisis. women continue to be discriminated against because they are mothers and workers, which is scandalous in the 21st century. it is therefore important to continue to demand an end to inequalities and discrimination, which implies a break with neoliberal policies and a serious commitment to alternative policies, which put the question of human rights and equality at the heart of community decision-making and policies.
in writing. - on this day, which is linked to the struggle of women for the recognition and exercise of their rights, the worsening of unemployment and precariousness in employment associated with low wages, wage discrimination and maternity discrimination, which affect women workers, is highlighted, taking on particularly shocking and unacceptable forms in the new generations, as is the case in portugal. the consequences are the increase in poverty among women. the situation of disabled women, immigrant women, low-pensioned pensioners and low-paid workers, as well as rural women and women living alone with their children, is particularly critical. of the more than 85 million people living in poverty in the european union, the majority are women. the poverty rate for women is over 18%. it is therefore essential to prevent measures being taken under the pretext of the crisis which call into question women's right to equality and the necessary economic and social cohesion. it is time to give priority to women, their rights, equality, economic and social cohesion in order to have a better society, to have effective respect for human rights and to consolidate the civilizational gains that women have helped to build.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it insists on the need to give priority to the elimination of the gender pay gap, defending the principle of equal work, equal pay, because it calls on the commission, the council and the member states to give priority to binding proposals rather than non-binding strategies in the field of gender equality and also to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups of women: women with disabilities, elderly women, migrants, lesbian, bisexual and transgender women, women from ethnic minorities, women with little or no training and dependants, women with disabilities and single mothers. it recognises the need for women to have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, in particular through facilitated access to contraception and abortion. it also condemns all violence against women. it is, unfortunately, a report required on this day, march 8, 2011.
in writing. - the current situation of widespread crisis affects most european citizens, but women most severely. in this context, it is to be feared that the great, but gradual and painful, achievements that women have made in the eu may suffer a substantial setback, which, in addition to obviously affecting them directly and unfairly, would also affect our societies, which are always healthier and with more solid prospects for development when they ensure gender equality. it is therefore important to continue investing in equality policies, in particular by implementing equality between men and women in working conditions, in income levels, in access to employment, and in place in society in general. in the field of equality policies, it is important to maintain and implement the complementarity between two lines of action: one in which, from the outside in, conditions are created for the experience of gender equality and the other, from the inside out, in which conditions are created for the emancipation of women from what makes them inferior. that said, and in agreement with many of the statements in this report, i abstained in the final vote because i do not accept free access to abortion, nor the assumption that abortion is a means of contraception, which it obviously is not.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it insists on the need to give priority to the elimination of the gender pay gap, defending the principle of equal work, equal pay, because it calls on the commission, the council and the member states to give priority to binding proposals rather than non-binding strategies in the field of gender equality, and to pay particular attention to vulnerable groups of women: women with disabilities, the elderly, migrants, lesbian, bisexual and transgender women, women from ethnic minorities, women with little or no training and dependants, women with disabilities and single mothers. it recognises the need for women to have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, in particular through facilitated access to contraception and abortion. it also condemns all violence against women. it is, unfortunately, a report required on this day, march 8, 2011.
in writing. - i welcome this report, noting the serious situation of 17% of the european female population, especially mothers and elderly women, who live in poverty and that in 16 member states women are even more exposed to extreme poverty and the fact that their contribution to the economy is regularly underestimated and underpaid. it is recalled that one of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy is to reduce poverty and this can only be achieved through social and employment policies, reconciling family life with work and ensuring the necessary means to ensure a life of dignity for all women.
in writing. - despite efforts to achieve equality between men and women, women are still at a higher risk of poverty (17%) than men (15%), with the difference being greater for older people (22% of women versus 17% of men). the higher risk of poverty affecting women is partly due to the existing gender pay gap. this wage gap remains at an average of 18% in the european union, with repercussions on lifetime earnings, social protection and pensions. this report, which has won my support, calls on the member states to take gender equality into account in their recovery plans from the recession, to do so by promoting and increasing the employment of women, the inclusion of flexible working hours in the labour market, equal pay and the revision of tax and retirement pension systems.
in writing. - i support the resolution adopted to combat female poverty through labour and social protection policies. i would point out, however, that there are several repetitions in the text and my disagreement with the points concerning incentives such as joint taxation and subsidies for individuals who care for dependent persons, which run counter to the ppe's position.
in writing. − one of the five major objectives of the eu 2020 strategy is to combat poverty and as such it was necessary to look separately at female poverty in the union. this report highlights the causes and consequences of female poverty and the importance of achieving gender equality for sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. at present, 17% of women in the union live in poverty, a figure which has increased dramatically in recent times compared with men. the report says that this has led to a feminization of poverty. it is urgent that the union and the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, find ways of combating poverty in general and women in particular, by undertaking efforts aimed at labour and social protection policies based on gender equality, efforts aimed at reconciling family life and work, developing a dialogue with social partners and civil society, contributing to the achievement of an increasingly equal society.
in writing. − in 2008, the european parliament and the council of the european union, aware of the need to raise awareness among citizens and countries of the problem of combating poverty, adopted a decision to designate 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. in times of crisis, war and genocide, women and children suffer the most and therefore deserve special attention from society in general and institutions in particular. the european institutions and the member states have an obligation to strive to improve the living conditions of women and to raise awareness in companies to offer them better opportunities, as they are a key component of the labour market. i welcome the adoption of this report, which confirms that the fight against poverty and social exclusion remains a priority political commitment of the eu, and i hope that its structural funds, in particular the european social fund (esf), will be strengthened to combat poverty and exclusion, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - at a time when we are marking a historic date associated with the struggle of women for their rights, we cannot ignore the range of social problems to which women, and especially working women, are subject: the worsening of unemployment and job insecurity, associated with low wages, wage discrimination, discrimination in maternity. the situation of loss of income is widening and poverty among women is increasing. the situation of disabled women, immigrant women, unemployed women, low-retirement women and low-paid women workers is particularly critical. the impact of austerity measures in some countries, such as portugal, greece and ireland, is having an impact on multiple dimensions of women's lives as workers, citizens and mothers. this is the case with wage cuts, the freezing of admissions and careers and the blocking of collective bargaining; cuts in health, education and social security and various social supports. it is not enough to say a few words of encouragement and good intentions on the occasion of today's event. we need a real change in the policies that are at the root of this situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. all the indicators show that, on average, globally, women are poorer than men. in times of economic recession, people who are already at risk of falling into poverty, and who are mostly women, become even more vulnerable. the report recognises that for women, especially those from groups already facing numerous disadvantages, the austerity measures being implemented across the eu will have particularly harmful effects. a considerable proportion of european women over 65 receive welfare benefits. women's poverty is not only the result of the recent economic crisis but also the consequence of other factors resulting from gender stereotypes, gender pay gaps, obstacles to the good balance between family and professional life, particularly serious in the case of single-parent families, resulting in a feminizing effect of poverty that must be tackled urgently.
in writing. - women's poverty is indeed a serious problem that the eu has to tackle. the crisis scenario we face is not beneficial to tackle this serious problem, but we have to make an extra effort to solve it. the fight against poverty is one of the key objectives of strategy 2020 and every effort should be made to achieve it, particularly for women, especially the most disadvantaged and the elderly. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover all aspects of the health and safety of workers, including the prevention of accidents at work, the prevention of occupational accidents and the prevention of occupational diseases.
in writing. - it has been sufficiently studied and we have sufficiently rigorous data to be able to state categorically that poverty affects women first and most intensely in all societies, from the richest, without any of them having succeeded to date in eliminating poverty within them, to the poorest, in which extreme poverty is like a contagious disease that robs hope of life and also life expectancy. however, we need a deeper and more specific knowledge of this reality in the various member states of the european union in order to be able to take more appropriate and effective action in view of the common objective of preventing and reducing poverty among women. it is worth highlighting the poverty of women, as we also have concrete general indications that point to the high impact that this has on the social fabric of a community: the more investment is made in the education and social advancement of women, the more this community develops socioeconomically. combating poverty among women is a moral imperative but also a social investment! for these reasons i voted in favour of this report on the situation of women in poverty in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. all the indicators show that, on average, globally, women are poorer than men. in times of economic recession, people who are already at risk of falling into poverty, and who are mostly women, become even more vulnerable. the report recognises that for women, especially those from groups already facing numerous disadvantages, the austerity measures being implemented across the eu will have particularly harmful effects. a considerable proportion of european women over 65 receive welfare benefits. women's poverty is not only the result of the recent economic crisis but also the consequence of other factors resulting from gender stereotypes, gender pay gaps, obstacles to the good balance between family and professional life, particularly serious in the case of single-parent families, resulting in a feminizing effect of poverty that must be tackled urgently.
madam president, i come from a country which has existed for eight centuries and which is nevertheless interested in having, in this globalised world, a strong europe and a europe which is able to dialogue face to face with china, india and the united states. the crisis we are experiencing is not a crisis in the euro zone, it is, as someone said, a crisis in the euro zone and it is a crisis in the euro zone because a single currency can only work when there is a serious and persistent work of convergence between the different areas that make it up in terms of growth rates, the level of income, employment, when there is real convergence and we have been working so far on nominal convergence indicators, which is not at all the same thing. in this sense, it is urgent that europe should complete what it has started, and in order to complete what it has started, in particular the single currency, it must in fact create a solid stability fund, a fund which will enable countries in difficulty to achieve this convergence with acceptable and non-prohibitive interest rates and which will not have to cut back on the strategic investment which allows them to achieve this convergence and which will enable them to pay back with this growth what they borrowed in the crisis. mr president, we need an active committee, a committee which is involved in the construction of this stability fund, but also in the eurobonds, and which hears the message which parliament has left it today through the new source of own resources, which must be an effective reinforcement of a budget which is manifestly insufficient. we have just adopted the podimata report which clearly advocates a financial transaction tax. europe must change course at this moment of change if it is to survive, it needs a strong parliament, but also a commission capable not only of reacting but of acting, taking the initiatives we are anxiously awaiting so that this experience is not lost, so that this experience bears fruit.
madam president, two weeks ago the international press commented on your statements about the possibility of portugal joining the financial stability fund and interpreted them as if they were, or had been, an incentive. and since dr durão barroso is probably the person in the european commission who knows the portuguese situation best, i ask him three questions for three frank answers. the first question is: what does portugal gain by using the financial stability fund and the imf as it currently exists? the second question is: what changes do you think are necessary to this fund so that the shameful situation in ireland is not repeated? a loan at prohibitive interest rates, with falling wages and with the continuation of fiscal dumping in respect of large companies. and the third and final question is: how can we return to a situation of confidence when all the monetary policy decisions, and the latest ones by the european central bank, which have been obvious, continue to harm the most vulnerable countries because they mortgage growth?
madam president, difficult times call for courageous political decisions. that is precisely why we are here, and that is why i congratulate president barroso on the clues he has left us here. the european parliament has also taken clear positions in several reports, both on the euro and the need for stability, and on the problem of growth. you can't just look at one side of the scale. the way out of the crisis requires, for example, that the permanent fund should work in response to the specific situations of states which are now paying increasing interest on their public debt, a policy which must also be based on competitiveness, better credit, a fiscal policy which can be positive in attracting investors, basically everything that has to do with wealth creation. but that is also why we need more european institutions. the european parliament's positions have been taken in a clear way and not through the media. this is not the time for ideological decision-making, but for thinking about the citizens. what they're asking us for is common sense and quick decisions.
today, on the occasion of international women's day, everyone has spoken well of women's rights, but now, when we talk about economic and financial questions, what is superimposed are financial interests in the so-called economic governance, with the insistence and deepening of the criteria of the stability pact plus the competitiveness pact, always without taking into account the specificity of each country, the profound economic differences, social inequalities, unemployment and poverty. so what we will have with this competitiveness pact is the aggravation of all existing social problems, but it will also have in front of it the struggles of workers, women and youth, as is already planned in portugal for the coming weekends, with a highlight for the cgtp demonstration in lisbon on 19 march. it's the hope we have in the change that's coming.
president of the commission. - madam president, there were some specific questions about portugal, and i will answer them. whether portugal should use the financial stability fund or not is a decision of the portuguese authorities. it is precisely because it concerns the sovereign debt that it is a sovereign decision of portugal. what i can tell you, of course, is that the financial stability fund and the use of that fund, as well as the imf's aid, was designed as a last resort, ultima ratio. it is obvious that if a country can avoid using this mechanism it should avoid it, there are costs to using these bailout funds, not just reputational costs. so if a country can avoid it, it should avoid it, but again, it is a decision of the national authorities whether or not to use this rescue fund, or at least to apply to activate this fund. secondly, what i would like to see in this fund is not a matter of taste, it is a matter of policy, and we in the commission are actively working with the states, particularly the eurozone states, to strengthen this fund in its lending capacity and also to broaden the scope of its activities, including greater flexibility. some of these issues are extremely sensitive from the point of view of the markets, which is why i do not think it is prudent to announce intentions that are not being realised, but it is a work in progress within the euro area. and as you know, the commission, particularly in its annual growth assessment, has clearly put forward the proposal for strengthening the fund and extending its activities. if this policy should or can be changed, i can tell you right now that, in relation to the most vulnerable countries, it cannot be changed. it would be totally irresponsible for countries with such a high level of public or private debt to slow down their efforts at this time to consolidate their budgets and to carry out structural reforms. when a country has such a high level of debt it must regain the confidence of the markets, otherwise its economic situation becomes unsustainable. so if we want to help the countries which are currently in the most vulnerable situation, we must not come up with mirages, with something that is unrealistic, but we must, on the contrary, support the serious efforts they can make towards fiscal consolidation and structural reforms. only then can they have the confidence of the markets. of course, it is not just the effort of the individual country that needs a joint effort of the euro area. this is what is being developed with, of course, differentiated commitment between the different actors. what i can tell you is that the commission has done everything, everything in its power, to propose more ambition. but as you know, the commission proposes that in the end, particularly in matters which are strictly national competence, such as matters which were not provided for in the treaty, as is the case with the financial stability fund, the decision is taken by the member states, in particular the euro zone states. in any case, what i would like to say to the whole parliament is that many of the criticisms i have heard here today - even if most of them support the general line proposed by the commission - are addressed, if i understand correctly, to certain governments or to certain member states. so, it's not for me to speak on their behalf. what i have to say is that the commission has presented a package of proposals for governance. we have tested the ambition of our governments to the limit. even for the governance package presented by myself and my colleague olli rehn, the member states did not want to accept the initial level of ambition. it is true that we have submitted legislative proposals. now, what has emerged is a new idea, like that of the competitiveness pact which we are trying to put as much as possible into the community method. i have made clear to you the efforts the commission is making to ensure that this idea of the impact of competitiveness can be useful, can have added value, either for growth and employment, which, as i said, clearly remains the priority for the commission, or even to strengthen the governance system. of course, the commission does not need to be reminded of its role as guarantor of the treaty. we have shown this without fail, whether it be on the questions of the internal market, competition or non-discrimination. i can assure you once again that the commission would not hesitate to resort to any means if we thought that principles or rules of the treaty would be called into question by the decisions of either the european council or any other institution. that is why our work is a long-term, of course, serious work that we do with a sense of responsibility. it is obvious that we are in an extremely delicate moment, you know, a moment where the first thing that many governments try to see in the morning is the evolution of the spreads of their public debts. so what we say is not indifferent. the hopes we have are not indifferent. the commission must therefore be ambitious and at the same time responsible for making proposals even though they have a chance of being carried out, rather than simply an effect of announcement followed by an effect of deception. that is what i want to avoid, that is what the commission must avoid. so it is an effect of deception, or an effect of pure division, whether within the euro zone or even within the union as a whole. that is why i can assure you that the commission will remain with the greatest ambition. it is the commission which is now telling all the governments that parliament must be associated with this competitiveness pact. it is the commission that is telling governments that it must retain a central role in this competitiveness pact, not because of an institutional fetish, not because of any ego of the institution, but because i believe that the commission and the community method are the guarantee of avoiding the division between the euro zone and the rest of europe. this is the guarantee of avoiding attacks on the integrity of the single market; it is the guarantee of avoiding the jeopardization of other mechanisms such as the stability and growth pact: it is the guarantee, of course, that we will remain european within the framework of the european union with european solidarity. so i was extremely frank, extremely open. in all transparency, the commission does its work, constructively of course, in trying to save an idea which, if it is well presented and done in a community approach, could bring added value to our governance efforts, not as some of you have pointed out. the commission has always been guided by the governments' efforts to coordinate economic policy, and so have most of the members of this parliament. we therefore have a chance. and if the heads of state and government wish to continue to invest themselves in this coordination of economic policies, and included in some areas which are hitherto considered to be only of national competence, i think we should welcome it insofar as it adds value to growth and employment, insofar as it respects the systems of community governance. that is what is at issue here. i think the debate has been very useful from this point of view. i believe that the message from this parliament has reached the european council. president buzek sent it the last time he was in the european council. i believe that, in the main, the commission and parliament will be firm in defence of the community approach, being sure that this is the only way for europe to achieve the objectives which are ours for the euro area, for stability but also for growth and employment in the union as a whole.
, in writing. other the plot that is unfolding before our eyes once again is painful because it is repetitive and reveals the essence of this european union: who is dictating the rules and in the name of what interests. in this plot, as usual, there are no shortage of main, secondary and mere extras. the so-called competitiveness pact, drawn up by germany and france as an unmentionable imposition on all the other eurozone countries, whose existence was initially denied by its authors, is now presented and defended in the european parliament by the president of the european commission, durão barroso. this was after he had criticised the german chancellor's lack of recognition of the commission's role weeks earlier. it is now clear what the role of the commission and its president is in the end. the pact, which barroso now says does not take us away from the objective of employment and growth, is a genuine revenge crusade against labour and social rights, by means of the attack on wages, the increase in the retirement age, the attempt to destroy collective bargaining, the lowering of social rights. it is also an attempt to impose a veritable sentence of economic dependence, of a colonial type, on countries like portugal.
it is time to defend the industries of the european union and of each of our countries. this requires a change in the positions which have been taken up to now, in which the european commission has not even bothered to strike a balance between the need to defend a prosperous industry, in particular manufacturing industries, and international trade. industrial production is fundamental to sustainable growth and employment in europe, which requires another community and external trade policy to defend our industries, including those which guarantee jobs in countries and regions where unemployment is already very high. it is essential to give full attention to small and mediumsized enterprises, research and innovation, to take account of regional development, the specific features of each country and each industrial sector, and to improve the skills and training of workers. but in the report we are discussing, there are many contradictory positions. while it claims to defend industry and smes, it also contains proposals calling for the liberalization of international trade, free competition, the deepening of the internal market and public-private partnerships. but as european reality has already shown, such proposals do not adequately defend our industries. we have therefore put forward some proposals to eliminate these most serious aspects. we hope they'll be approved tomorrow. we stand for resource-efficient industries that are less carbon-dependent, that value employment with rights, that guarantee equal rights for women in access to work, career advancement, salaries and participation in management and boardrooms. to ensure all this, it is essential that there is another community framework and here the european commission has an important role to play in terms of industrial policy, external trade, financial policy, research, science and innovation, which supports smes, accompanied by a commitment to training and job qualification and respect for the dignity of those who work.
madam president, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr langen, and the shadow rapporteurs, in particular mrs grossetête, for the good work they have done. europe is currently facing a decline in its competitiveness in global markets. in this sense, europe must find ways to strengthen its industrial base to meet the new challenges. this report presents proposals to revive european industry. an integrated and sustainable industrial policy should be based on scientific research, innovation, increased resource efficiency, a strategy for raw materials, the efforts of smes and the development of regional networks. in particular, it is essential that energy efficiency and the introduction of information and communication technologies in industrial sectors form the basis of this new industrial revolution in order to increase competitiveness, economic growth and employment. i particularly welcome the emphasis the report places on traditional european industry, which is fundamental to our economy. measures such as the introduction of new technologies and a further strengthening of scientific research and innovation in sectors such as manufacturing are of crucial importance. only then will it be possible to put european industry back in the world leadership position so necessary for jobs and economic growth in europe.
this discussion of the difficulties in accessing raw materials such as rare earths is inseparable from the current state of the world economy and the systemic crisis in which we find ourselves. the crisis that we have been told is financial is in fact a wider and more global crisis. it is a crisis that also lies in the confrontation between economic growth as understood by capitalism and a planet earth that is generous but that is finite. it is also in this inability to understand nature and its limits that lie the causes of a system, capitalism, that subordinates everything to the dynamics of profit and accumulation, but nature does indeed have its limits. the evolution towards a polycentric world, both economically and politically, opens the way to the rise of competition for resources, which provokes and feeds conflicts. the currency and trade wars we have seen are troubling symptoms, but they are not isolated. other wars are emerging as threats for the present and the future, and these are also the issues that are discussed when we discuss what brought us here today.
fossil fuels now provide the vast majority of primary energy needs worldwide. over 80% of the total, oil 34%, coal 26% and natural gas 21%. these resources have, as we know, been exploited at rates far in excess of their natural replacement rates, with their inexorable depletion looming on the horizon. the situation of natural gas is comparable to that of oil, except that its distribution is more limited and its transport and storage are more difficult. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are no silver bullets and the remaining fossil fuel reserves must be managed very carefully, with wisdom and thrift. but whatever alternatives are found for energy provision, it is almost certain that overall energy consumption will have to decline from present levels and there is not necessarily much harm in that. we must prepare ourselves for this scenario.
the libyan uprising cannot be understood without the revolutions in tunisia and egypt. it is precisely because this uprising in libya is part of a historic, revolutionary and popular process that will bring democracy to the southern mediterranean and the entire arab world, that the position and the change in the european position in relation to the way it has acted in libya is so important. the days of the gaddafi regime are numbered because it is a dictatorship and the people have lost their fear. because it cannot survive with neighbours in democratic transition and also because it is isolated in the international community. but this change in the european position is bound to say something about the past. because the european union was one of the pillars of the old regime. the resolution does not say so, but the weapons with which the libyan people are being repressed are largely european weapons and bombs. so i want to be very clear. the left is in favour of freezing assets, it is in favour of an arms embargo, it is in favour of dealing with the insurgency, it is in favour of all humanitarian aid measures, but i also want to make it clear that we are against any military intervention, including the measure that may open the doors to them, the no-fly zone. we have spoken about lucidity. we have the experience, we know how military measures start and we know how they never end once they start.
mr president, the european parliament seconds the united nations in their unanimous message to the libyan dictator: step down, stop the bloodshed, face justice. in the face of gaddafi’s retaliation against his people, the eu must exercise the responsibility to protect by helping to enforce a no-fly zone, as envisaged by the arab league, the oic and the african union, and the other measures decided on by the security council, with all means available, including csdp assets – please note, mrs ashton – namely, to enforce the arms embargo. the eu must do more to assist all those trying to escape or who are stranded in libya by supporting unhcr and humanitarian organisations on the ground and by helping to resettle refugees who cannot be repatriated, such as somalis, eritreans and ethiopians. a burden-sharing action plan to resettle refugees, a common asylum system, temporary protection measures – all should urgently be enacted by the european union in compliance with the solidarity clause and the principle of non-refoulement, and as part of a coherent and long-term strategy to deal with the impact of political transition in the north of africa, addressing the root causes of migration. the eu must revise the enp south, must prioritise support for capacity and institution-building to sustain the rule of law, human rights, including women’s rights, and to prepare genuine elections. the eu must immediately establish relations with emerging political forces in libya, namely the interim transitional council, to encourage democratic transition and to ensure that democracy delivers the freedoms, the development and the dignity that the libyan people are showing us they aspire to.
i just want to know if i have understood what mr brok said correctly, that a military solution, a military decision, in his view, does not require a decision by the united nations. because if that's what you said, i have to tell you i disagree with you a thousand times.
we are in solidarity with the arab peoples in tunisia, egypt and libya, who are fighting for freedom, democracy and social progress, and we remember the specific features of each country, but we cannot forget the support that the governments and the officials of the european union have given to the dictators to whom they have sold the weapons that are now being used to kill their own people. we cannot accept any foreign military intervention or interference in the struggles of the peoples of these countries. we know how foreign interference starts, but we never know how it ends, as the examples of iraq, afghanistan and so many others have already shown. the people of these countries must be respected in their political, economic and social choices and all the humanitarian aid they request must be given immediately, without preconditions or interference.
on behalf of the ppe group. other the first point i think we should stress here is, following on from what mr elmar brok said, the involvement of the community institutions, what parliament is asking the council to do with this report is to involve the community institutions and the community method in the resolution of this issue of the permanent stability fund of the stability fund, and this involvement is being asked, in particular, with due regard for the role of the commission. that is essential for parliament and i think it is essential for this mechanism. the second point, which is very important for us, is that the stabilisation fund is only one of the vectors. economic governance and, possibly, euro points are other vectors to solve the financial and economic crisis currently plaguing some of the euro area member states and therefore the council must be aware that the fund does not solve everything by itself and has to be integrated into economic governance mechanisms and the 2020 strategy for growth. and that said, i would like to stress three very positive points: point 6 of the report, which involves all the states, regardless of their size; point 12 of the report, which says that no state can be denied access to the fund on the grounds of its small size; and the point which seems to me to be the most important, which is point 14 of the report, which states, on the one hand, that the conditions for interest rates must be favourable in order to avoid what is happening now with greece and ireland, where community aid, the imf's aid, is not solving the problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i sum up my position in three proposals: first, the notion of a permanent euro stability mechanism is in itself an essential contribution to strengthening the single currency for further monetary integration of the union and to bringing greater stability to the public debt markets. that is why we must support it unreservedly. secondly, the permanent stability mechanism can only be created with certainty and legal certainty by being clearly inserted in the treaties. that is why we must support the surgical amendment of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. thirdly, it would obviously be preferable if the mechanism were set up and managed by the european institutions themselves, rather than emerging as an intergovernmental initiative of the euro area. however, we know very well that this is impossible in the face of the inevitable objections of some member states, and it only takes one member state to prevent the amendment of the treaty from being adopted. we must therefore support the council's proposal as it is proposed for the amendment of the treaty.
in writing. what is happening with the announced amendment to the lisbon treaty shows that all that european union officials have said about the importance of national parliaments and the european parliament, the deepening of democracy and the perennial nature of the treaty itself is nothing but propaganda. one year and a few months after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, here is an amendment which is made on the margins of everyone, using a mechanism of the treaty itself which allows not only an amendment without any democratic participation, but also, in fact, continuing what they did with the refusal of national referendums for the approval of the treaty, but creating a mechanism which allows a permanent control of the economic life of the member states. this report also follows the same line, by presenting some amendments to the european commission's proposal to amend the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards a stability mechanism for member states whose currency is the euro. in practice, all of them are aiming to consolidate the leap they intend to make in economic governance, with the creation of the european semester, the deepening of sanctions in the context of compliance with the sgp, the economic policy guidelines and indicators that will be adopted. what they want is to create a real straitjacket for the member states.
in writing. - i approve this report in accordance with the principle that institutions must have sufficient resources to be managed rigorously and efficiently. at a time of economic and financial crisis in europe, when citizens are obliged to restrict their personal spending, the institutions, not only european but also national, must follow the same example. this should not, however, prevent the necessary public investments which translate into a gain in the medium and long term. i would stress that the impact of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on heading 5 is expected to stabilise in 2012, although the accession of croatia scheduled for 2013 will have an impact on the 2012 budget. in the light of the present situation, some institutions may have some difficulty in maintaining a balanced budget. to achieve this, i agree to measures of good management of administrative resources, to plans for reducing costs, and to the adoption of efficient and environmentally friendly technologies. the ep also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers are respected.
in writing. - the report on the priorities for the 2012 budget of the european parliament and other european institutions, which has my support, is in line with the economic, financial and social situation we are going through, i.e. it is a budget of restraint and austerity. the report advocates: high quality of legislative work, cost reduction, reduction of environmental impact, zero base increase, i.e. an increase equal to inflation. equally important is the proposal that the next budgets should be multiannual budgets in line with the multiannual financial framework. it also envisages the possible accession of croatia in 2013.
in writing. − i agree with the report on the guidelines for the 2012 budgetary procedure, which stresses the need to consolidate the resources needed to meet the new institutional framework resulting from the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. a responsible attitude in budgetary matters is essential, both on the part of the european parliament and the other institutions. the current crisis and the heavy burden on public debt call for urgent self-restraint, taking account of the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. it is worth noting that it must be borne in mind that certain investments, particularly in technologies, may result in future long-term savings and should therefore not be prevented. i would also stress that proposals should be made to reduce the consumption of paper, energy, water and emissions in the organisational culture of parliament and the other institutions. it would also be desirable to reduce the amount of material disseminated in physical media, which should be replaced by computer media.
in writing. - i support the excellent report by mr josé manuel fernandes because at a time when we are going through a serious financial, economic and social crisis and when so many sacrifices are required of our citizens, we must be the first to set an example by adopting guidelines for a budget of restraint and austerity. however, the necessary means must be made available so that the community institutions can live up to what is expected of them, especially in the light of the new institutional framework resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i would also stress the importance of subjecting the management of these funds to the highest standards of rigour and efficiency, in accordance with strict control and greater transparency. it is also important to encourage synergies and avoid unnecessary duplication of staff and functions.
in writing. − taking due account of the current financial, economic and social situation in the union, there is a growing need for the institutions to respond with the required quality and efficiency and to use rigorous budgetary management processes to achieve savings. efforts are now needed to fully achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, focusing on growth and job creation. the commission has also taken the view that the budgetary procedure should be extended to include the budgetary procedure. it is therefore important to maintain a prudent approach to administrative running costs. in conclusion, parliament should uphold the principle of legislative excellence, respect the principles of good governance and transparency and ensure a spirit of budgetary responsibility in the general framework of priorities for the 2012 budget.
in writing. the report 'prioritises the principle of legislative excellence'. it is true that, despite the ambiguity of the concept, this will depend essentially on the political orientations embedded in the legislative process, but we advocate that the means of work - material and human - at parliament's disposal be justly adapted to the requirements and scope of parliamentary work. the rapporteur does not spare the rapporteur a long rhetoric which runs through the report punctuated by concepts such as 'good management', 'economics of scale', 'efficiency', 'effectiveness', 'cost-benefit analysis', 'cost reduction', 're-allocation of staff', 'mobility' etc. the european external action service seems to be left out of this recipe, however, when it comes to 'supporting the eu's foreign policy ambitions'. we fully agree with 'the importance of equal treatment of members of all nationalities and languages in the possibility of carrying out their political duties and activities using their own language'. but this means much more than the guarantee of interpretation in committee meetings, to which the rapporteur refers. it also involves providing interpretation services for meetings of coordinators, trilogues, delegations, parliamentary assemblies, and others. it also implies the timely translation of all official and working documents. in both areas, there are unacceptable failures today.
in writing. - this is another report on the continuity of community policies in budgetary terms, which depends mainly on the political guidelines printed in the legislative process. but we are in favour of the right adaptation of the means of work put at parliament's disposal - material and human - to the requirements and scope of parliamentary work, without exaggerating the costs and possible savings, without calling parliamentary work into question. we cannot, however, fail to mention that, in addition to concepts such as good management, economies of scale, efficiency, effectiveness, cost-benefit analysis, cost reduction, redeployment of staff, mobility, etc., other policies are needed in the european union, including substantial reductions in military expenditure and the european external action service. we support the defence of equal treatment of members of all nationalities and languages in the possibility of carrying out their political duties and activities using their own language, but we would point out that this implies much more than the guarantee of interpretation in committee meetings, to which the rapporteur refers. it also involves providing interpretation services for meetings of coordinators, trilogues, delegations, parliamentary assemblies, and others. it also implies the timely translation of all official and working documents.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has brought new responsibilities to the european parliament. this leads to an increased administrative burden and the need for members to have qualified staff to carry out advisory functions. this new reality brings two problems: the increased costs of requiring more assistants and the physical space needed for them to perform their duties in good working conditions. this leads to increased costs, which in this time of crisis is difficult to explain, but if the european parliament is to do an excellent job it must have the necessary human and financial resources. hence my vote.
in writing. - i abstained because, although this text refers to the identification of possible savings for the next year's budget, these are not specified in the text. if we are to be consistent, the savings policies must start with the members of the european parliament themselves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the current financial, economic and social situation in the european union cannot but force the institutions to use strict budgetary management procedures to ensure that the necessary savings are made. a real consolidation effort is needed. in accordance with the principles of sound management, institutions shall present cost reduction plans and when presenting expenditure, these shall be clearly specified and justified. i would also like to publicly express my appreciation for the excellent work carried out by my colleague, mr josé manuel fernandes.
in writing. − the guidelines for the 2012 budget are based on a balance between the need to provide the european institutions with sufficient and adequate resources for their activities and the imperative of finding a quality and efficient response in the current financial, economic and social situation. the proposal states that the institutions may have difficulties in maintaining the financial discipline and restraint required to comply with the multiannual financial programme, particularly as regards heading 5. the rapporteur therefore calls for the principles of good management, such as economy, efficiency and effectiveness, to be applied in order to achieve greater rigor, simplification, clarity and transparency. as far as the european parliament is concerned, the document, which i voted for, includes the needs arising from the enlargement to croatia in 2013, the increase by 18 members and the need for additional staff following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the other institutions include the new section x on the external action service, which, with the new treaty, responds to the financial needs arising from the creation of an ambitious institutional framework to support the eu's external policy.
in writing. - i support this resolution because a strategy for the atlantic region is essential for the eu's territorial cohesion, especially in the context of the enlargement of the eu's eastern borders. it should be noted that only within the framework of a strategic orientation which gives the atlantic a central role can we have an approach to this region which is much less peripheral and much more in the affirmation of its geocentricity in the global space. for the eu, it is the area bordering north america, south america or the whole of west africa. a strategy for the atlantic region, involving member states and regions, should also give priority to new areas of innovation, in economics and science, with emphasis on new products and services linked to the environment and ocean renewable energies, marine biotechnology related to food, health or smart high-tech products and services. the atlantic strategy should not be seen in isolation but rather as part of the eu's overall objectives, taking into account the lessons of the baltic strategy, adapted after the start of the 2007-13 budgetary programming period, which undoubtedly limited the scope of the initiative.
in writing. - i agree with the european parliament's resolution on the european strategy for the atlantic region, which i consider to be of great importance as five member states have an atlantic coastline: france, ireland, portugal, spain and the united kingdom. this strategy aims to address issues of relevant importance such as marine energy, environment and climate change, transport and access, security and surveillance, research, innovation, creative industries, culture, leisure and tourism, services, maritime training, fisheries and fishery products. european territorial cooperation, consolidated in this strategy through the aspects already mentioned, can make a major contribution to intensifying the integration process within the atlantic region through greater participation of civil society in the decision-making process and in the implementation of concrete actions. i would also like to stress that such an initiative can and should lead to a better use of eu funds and not to an increase in expenditure.
in writing. - as a member elected by a country in the atlantic region, i cannot fail to stress the importance and the need to create a european strategy which takes account of the geographical, demographic and economic specificities of this region. an integrated and articulated strategy should be developed to ensure synergy and coherence between sectoral policies in this area, creating the added value needed to meet the challenges to sustainable development and competitiveness in particular of this region and of europe in general. i have no doubt that there is a need for a european approach based on enhanced cooperation between atlantic coastal states, coastal communities, the private sector and civil society, where this common strategy will bring benefits to all stakeholders. it should identify common problems and challenges, shared priorities and create the necessary synergies to promote a more efficient use of resources. it is important not only to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of traditional sectors, but also to exploit the full potential of the atlantic area, with new markets, products and services, guided by two major priorities: the protection of the environment and ecosystems, and the creation of jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the need for the commission to draw up as soon as possible a european strategy for the atlantic region which specifically addresses maritime and territorial issues. this strategy should address issues of common interest such as the environment and climate change, marine energy, maritime transport, maritime safety and surveillance, fisheries, tourism, research and innovation. the azores, madeira and cape verde should also be included and play a prominent role in this strategy.
in writing. - the atlantic is today one of europe's frontiers and was one of the most important routes of contact between the european continent and the world. it was through this ocean that european peoples, among whom the portuguese stand out, brought together people, economies and cultures hitherto unknown to each other and forged what is today the truly globalized world. the periphery that the atlantic region now feels in relation to the european centre can and must be bridged by the realisation that the atlantic and relations with the most important partners on its periphery, such as brazil and the united states of america, can help to reaffirm a geostrategic centrality that has been overlooked in the face of the emergence of asian countries. the importance of the region fully justifies the establishment of a european strategy which, true to the historical role of the ocean that gives it its name, does not close itself off to the member states but rather knows how to link up with these other shores. in this connection, i would like to stress the crucial and irreplaceable role of the outermost regions in its success. they should continue to deserve particular support from the union to overcome the costs of insularity and to strengthen external contacts.
in writing. − the european council of 14 june 2010 asked the commission to draw up a european strategy for the atlantic region within one year, as it is a peripheral territory with specific characteristics both in terms of its potential and its environmental vulnerabilities. an ambitious strategy is therefore required, given its global importance, and taking into account its maritime and land dimension. this resolution represents a key contribution to the elaboration of the strategy, as it draws attention to fundamental aspects such as the need to seek synergies with other policies (environment, energy, transport, tourism, marine resources, etc.), to adopt a macro-regional policy and to pursue an international approach necessary for a good relationship with the neighbouring countries of the atlantic. i welcome the adoption of this european parliament resolution, as i am convinced that this eu strategy for the atlantic region will accelerate the sustainable growth of this territory and put maritime issues at the top of european affairs.
in writing. - we are in favour of developing strategies aimed at promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within certain macro-regions, which naturally have the means to achieve this fully and effectively. these strategies should, at all stages of their preparation, elaboration and implementation, actively involve the countries and regions within their geographical scope and should be based on cooperation between those countries and regions. these strategies can and should address issues of common interest, such as, in the case of this specific proposal for a european strategy for the atlantic region: marine energy, environmental protection, including the prevention and control of marine pollution, transport and access, research and innovation, among others. however, some of the points in the resolution give rise to our greatest doubts and others to strong disagreements. that is why we did not vote for it. the resolution does not safeguard the principle that new objectives in the field of cohesion policy should be matched by new means, including financial means, to achieve them. the resolution also proposes that the strategy be subordinated to the eu's external policy, international trade policy objectives, the europe 2020 strategy and the 'achievement of the internal market objectives'.
in writing. - it is important to continue to develop strategies aimed at promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion within certain macro-regions, which naturally have the appropriate means to achieve this fully and effectively. these strategies should, at all stages - preparation, elaboration and implementation - actively involve the countries and regions within their geographical scope and should be based on cooperation between these countries and regions. these strategies can and should address issues of common interest. in this case, it is the european strategy for the atlantic region: marine energy, environmental protection, including the prevention and control of marine pollution, transport and access, research and innovation, among others. however, some of the points in the resolution raise our greatest doubts and others even stronger disagreements. that is why we did not vote for it. the resolution does not safeguard the principle that new cohesion policy objectives should be matched by new means, including financial means, to achieve them, which means that we will have many promises but few actions, and is subordinated to international trade policy objectives, the europe 2020 strategy and the 'achievement of the internal market objectives'.
in writing. the atlantic region has very specific and distinctive characteristics as it is a dynamic maritime area, with maritime transport, fisheries and marine energy being the most important. it is a space with a fragile environment, which must be preserved, and which is subject to coastal erosion and extreme weather phenomena and is a peripheral space. it therefore needs an integrated eu strategy covering maritime and territorial issues. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because, as portugal is an atlantic country with a dynamic maritime area and great potential, but with a fragile environment which needs to be preserved, i cannot but consider it positive that the eu recognises the potential of its atlantic region and that many of the problems of this vast area must be addressed at european level, through an integrated eu strategy for the region, in the perspective of a policy of territorial cohesion, which should be a key feature of community options, but which has been so absent from union decisions, so sacrificed by unacceptable budgetary constraints motivated by non-development-friendly austerity policy options.
in writing. - for portugal, given its particular geostrategic position, this matter is of the utmost importance, particularly with regard to maritime security and surveillance. i therefore consider it very appropriate to draw up a european union strategy for the atlantic region.
in writing. − the european atlantic coast, due to its vast area, has a lot of potential and a number of specific characteristics. the atlantic region offers important and dynamic maritime activity and has within it regions with very different characteristics, but which have the common characteristic of being dependent on activities in the sea basins of this ocean. there are remote areas in the atlantic that are difficult to reach, with great physical distance from the european continent. i am speaking specifically of the outermost regions of the european union, whose problems of connectivity and accessibility are reflected in their economic and social development. it will, however, be important to point out that these regions have unparalleled advantages when compared to other european regions. despite the permanent constraints, the specific characteristics offer potential which should be taken into account in an integrated perspective for the atlantic area. the objective of territorial cohesion allows, or rather obliges, the harmonious development of all the regions of the european union, taking into account the particularities of each. i hope that the regions of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, including madeira, where i come from, will be taken into account in a future strategy for the atlantic and that an integrated approach will be able to overcome the main difficulties and challenges facing these regions.
in writing. - i am adopting this resolution in the belief that turkey's accession to the eu is in the strategic interest of both turkey and the eu, but this will require turkey to make greater efforts in the reform processes in order to meet the accession criteria. in particular, in the field of freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of association, the commitment to create a judicial system which is faster, more independent, fairer and which cooperates effectively in the fight against terrorism, in the fight for women's rights and, in general, for human rights. the withdrawal of turkish forces from cyprus is also an essential condition for creating conditions for good neighbourliness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the reforms in turkey, although important, have been slow. the recent change in the legal framework that strengthens women's rights and contributes to greater gender equality is noteworthy, but much remains to be done to reverse the low female employment rates.
in writing. - in the face of the turmoil of instability that is ravaging the southern mediterranean and the entire muslim world, it must be recognised that, with all its imperfections, the turkish regime has been able to develop in a more peaceful and orderly way and that it is seeking to converge with and integrate into the european union by adopting its standards and best practices. turkey is now a regional power which the union must take special account of, and the link between the two is crucial. that said, it must be acknowledged that turkey does not yet meet all the objective criteria for full membership of the union and that the reforms it has recently undertaken take time to produce the expected results. i hope that turkey will continue its democratization efforts successfully and that, whatever form its future relationship with the union takes, it will be closer and deeper to mutual benefit.
in writing. − in october 2005, negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union began, but the process is still open and far from being concluded in the short term. the european union, which is interested in pursuing a policy of good neighbourliness, welcomes this integration, as it considers turkey a strategic partner. however, there are certain problems which make it difficult to move this process forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu considers this situation unacceptable and it is aggravated by the occupation of a large part of the territory of cyprus. turkey should therefore demonstrate that it is in a process of change, in particular by implementing the legislation as amended in 2007 and fully complying with the commitments it has made to the eu. i am voting in favour of this report and hope that the turkish government will adopt the recommendations as soon as possible, because the people of turkey will benefit most from them.
in writing. - turkey is militarily occupying part of an eu member state: the republic of cyprus. despite the efforts of the cypriot government to resolve the problem and the successive demonstrations of goodwill to reach a just solution, the turkish authorities show no sign of wanting to respond to these efforts. on the contrary, they are pursuing a policy of disregard for un resolutions and of occupying and colonizing the northern part of the island. this should be a central point of this resolution. the resolution is, however, satisfied that this situation should continue. it also omits the repression of workers, trade unionists and leftist forces in turkey, as well as the kurdish minority. the resolution calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation, and calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation. these considerations illustrate the profound meaning and significance of the enlargement processes in this european union and, specifically, in this case of turkey: the imposition of the designs of the eu's directorate of powers and the interests it serves.
in writing. - as we have been stressing, the eu accession negotiations with turkey raise a number of issues. this is a process promoted by the great powers - and not without contradictions - with the aim of integrating this great country into the single market of the european union, controlling its economy and using its geostrategic position in relation to the middle east, the caucasus and central asia, particularly for access to and control of the energy sources and markets of these regions. the resolution is also illuminating on this issue, urging turkey to support and actively contribute to the implementation of eu actions and policies in the region, particularly in the field of energy, highlighting its constructive commitment to nato operations in afghanistan and the balkans, and the renewal of its close relations with israel. the resolution ignores the repression of workers, trade unionists, leftist forces and the turkish people. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in cyprus calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as eu citizens.
in writing. the european union is also considering the possibility of a new round of negotiations with turkey. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open the ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties and the annulment of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of the military courts are some illustrative examples of this. added background questions: most of turkey is not geographically located in europe; turkey has an islamic identity that is very different from the judeo-christian identity of most eu countries. the secularity of the state is only guaranteed by military imposition; the eu's future member states will have to make a major effort to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make decisions. all this does not prevent the recognition of the efforts made by turkey in recent years to meet some of the eu's criteria of need, and it even points out the invaluable role of this country within nato. the relevant question will be whether it is not preferable to grant turkey a privileged and preferential partnership status with the eu, rather than creating false expectations and hopes for accession, which facts and circumstances will hardly allow.
in writing. - the process of bringing turkey closer to the european union's objective criteria has been, and will be, a long one. i have therefore always advocated that relations between the european union and turkey should be deepened now by gradually implementing partnerships in various fields. i do not think it is good for the european union or for turkey to create a long wait for integration.
in writing. - i approve this resolution in the belief that montenegro must become a success story in the balkans for the eu, provided that it fulfils all the conditions set by the commission to start the accession process. however, i am concerned about the prevalence of corruption, especially in the construction, privatisation and procurement sectors, and, more seriously, the discrimination against minorities and the most vulnerable groups. the independence of the media should also be a concern.
in writing. - i welcome the concern and commitment shown by the government and opposition parties in montenegro towards european integration. the results of this process are the almost complete establishment of the country's legal and constitutional framework, as well as the economic reforms carried out. however, there are a number of areas for improvement, including corruption, organised crime, discrimination and freedom of the press. i call on the state to continue on the right track, which i hope will soon culminate in the opening of negotiations.
in writing. - montenegro has shown that it is determined to persevere in its european choice. i welcome the determination of its leaders and the changes taking place in the country to bring it closer to european standards, particularly with regard to democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law. despite the progress made, it is still clear which path the country must take before it can be fit to join the european union. i hope that the montenegrin determination will continue to be felt and that, rather than converging nominally or formally with the european union, montenegro will be able to improve the living conditions of its people and improve the functioning of its institutions so that it will become a prosperous state.
in writing. − the european institutions have, on several occasions, recognised the strategic interest of eu enlargement to the balkan region. the accession of new states depends on a number of factors. first, the interest shown by the state, and secondly, the guarantee of the observance of a set of fundamental rights of citizens. following the expression of interest by the republic of montenegro in joining the eu, the european council decided on 17 december 2010 to grant the republic of montenegro the status of a candidate country for eu accession. in fact, as mentioned in this report, montenegro has been carrying out a number of reforms, notably in the context of the establishment of a new legal and constitutional framework and the fight against corruption. however, there are areas where more progress is needed, such as freedom of the press and respect for the work of non-governmental organisations. i agree with this resolution of the european parliament on the integration process of the republic of montenegro, which recommends an acceleration of the integration process. i call on the montenegrin authorities to continue to make efforts to achieve the objectives set, as it is an important neighbour for the eu and with whom we want to work together.
in writing. - in the case of montenegro, too, it is becoming clear what the meaning and significance of the enlargement processes in this european union is, in satisfying the designs of the eu's power directory and the interests served by its economic groups: enlargement of markets, access to and control of geostrategic positions, labour to be exploited and liable to force further devaluations of the labour force in all eu countries. the peripheries that have been created as a result of successive enlargements have been exhausted, and new ones must be created. the promises made to the people of montenegro today, as to others in the past and present, are many. but the price is high and only partially revealed. in this particular case, it is important not to forget what the process of disintegration of yugoslavia was, as a result of the action of nato and the eu powers which are now trying to attract montenegro to eu membership which is the heir of that process.
in writing. - we are facing another episode in the process of the total disintegration of yugoslavia and what is left of it. it's time for montenegro. the major powers of nato and the eu, after imposing economic and financial strangulation measures on yugoslavia, with the support of the imf and the world bank, supported ethnic divisions that ended in war and the hasty creation of new 'sovereign states'. the future integration of montenegro into the eu is the legacy of this process and the attack on socialist gains, aimed at satisfying the interests of economic and financial groups by exploiting the labour force, the market, their geostrategic location and the natural resources of these countries. now, the promises are immense. the eu is waving millions of euros of so-called "aid" and development. but how much will it cost anyway and when will it arrive, if it does? the experience we have is that 25 years of capitalist integration of portugal into the eu is an example that the promised progress never comes. what is needed is the destruction of the machinery of production and employment, the exploitation of workers, the destruction of public services, indebtedness and external dependence. so our doubts about this path.
in writing. − montenegro as a candidate for future eu membership has shown its willingness to stick to its european option through the determination of its leaders and the changes that have been taking place in the country in order to meet eu requirements, in particular on democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law. despite the progress made, it is not enough and montenegro must continue to make efforts until it is ready to join the european union. i hope that this determination will continue to bear fruit and that convergence with the eu will become a reality so that montenegro can provide better living conditions for its people and improve the functioning of its sovereign organs to become an increasingly better state.
in writing. - i note the efforts made by montenegro in particular with regard to judicial reform, the fight against corruption and the fight against the various forms of discrimination, but i stress that this work needs to be continued and deepened. however, there is still a wide range of subjects to which special attention needs to be paid. i am referring in particular to economic issues and the need for further structural change, which, despite the success of the economic reforms implemented, the financial crisis has revealed. a final note on a matter which is dear to me: the need to improve the quality of legislation drafted in parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report insofar as the values of the european construction call for an eu free of prejudice and discrimination, in the interests of respect for human rights. this discrimination is aggravated by the current economic crisis and the inclusion of the roma population should be seen as a shared responsibility of the european institutions, member states and regions, making use of all available resources in the eu to address this situation. the commission should lead this process, paying particular attention to requests for technical assistance and, above all, presenting a strategy which includes as priority areas the defence of human rights, the right to education and training, culture, employment, sport, adequate housing, health care and the improvement of the health of the roma population. on the other hand, efforts must be made to increase the political and civic participation of the roma, starting with the youngest.
in writing. − the european charter of fundamental rights prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex, race, colour or ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, membership of a national minority, wealth, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation, and nationality. in europe there are some 10 to 12 million roma, most of them european citizens, who suffer systematic discrimination and are victims of intolerance. the integration of the roma population is the responsibility of all member states and the european institutions. this report calls on the member states to cooperate with the european union and representatives of the roma community to develop integrated policies, using the resources available in the european union under the existing structural funds to support the integration of the roma community, with the integration of the roma population being less costly than supporting their poor socioeconomic conditions. the harmonious integration of roma communities requires the participation and cooperation of all: of the roma themselves and of the host community. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. - i welcome the commitment shown by the european union to create binding standards that guarantee the roma community access to education, employment, housing and healthcare. this initiative is in line not only with the human values inherent in the social inclusion of ethnic minorities, but also with the economic progress induced by the reduction of unemployment. i agree with the measures proposed under this integration strategy, in particular the fight against undeclared work and the increase in the number of roma teachers. it is important to involve the community itself in the integration process, in order to ensure sustainable development from the inside out, encouraging the desire for a positive life in society rather than imposition. this process should also address all forms of violation of fundamental rights, with particular attention to social exclusion and discrimination in public life.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur, livia jároka, when she advocates a coordinated eu policy to promote the integration of european roma citizens (10-16 million, council of europe estimates), which provides for the adoption of anti-racist and anti-discriminatory measures to complement existing legislation, while ensuring that it is implemented and properly applied. but also measures that can respond to the specific needs of roma and promote their socioeconomic inclusion, such as the right to work, housing, education, health care, among others. the integration of roma, in addition to their humanitarian role, should also allow an increase in the active population supporting the social security system, reduce the social and health benefits that the state ensures to people living in poverty, without forgetting the possibility of reducing crime rates. such integration should take account of the protection of children and respect for the law. a common european solution to a common european problem is needed, which includes an integrated cross-sectoral approach and allows specific support and intervention in the most underdeveloped and severely structurally disadvantaged areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the inclusion of roma is not only linked to moral imperatives or to the european union's human rights obligations. several studies prove that excluding these european citizens has socioeconomic costs for member states. the social inclusion of roma is a necessary and financially viable investment in the long term.
in writing. - gypsies have historically been discriminated against and even hostile towards by the majority populations of the member states. there is still a lot of discrimination within the roma communities themselves, which the strategy will urge not only to avoid but also to try to redress. i believe that a union strategy for the integration of roma, like any other ethnic group with a disadvantage, is welcome. i believe that it can succeed if it is actively involved in the populations it seeks to integrate. without the participation, interaction and commitment of all actors in this common effort, the strategy risks being nothing more than a statement of good intentions. much remains to be done to reverse the discriminatory trend towards roma. i hope the success of the strategy will eventually justify its extinction in time.
in writing. − this report deals with the development of an eu strategy for the inclusion of roma. it is a very useful and encouraging document, which the commission and the ep have worked on together, and whose recommendations go against the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy to reduce poverty and combat social exclusion, in order to achieve inclusive growth throughout the eu. the roma population shows a high demographic dynamism, unlike other ethnic groups, and in some countries, such as hungary, it is expected to represent more than 50% of the economically active population by 2050. their integration is thus not only an ethical imperative (a human rights issue) but also a key to the sustainability of social security systems, proving not a cost but a necessary and financially viable investment in the long term. sometimes the costs of exclusion outweigh the benefits of inclusion. i welcome the adoption of this report and welcome the recommendation that the commission take up its role of monitoring and monitoring the implementation of this strategy by the member states.
in writing. the resolution adopted calls for the adoption of a european union strategy for the integration of roma, with the development of an inclusive action plan based on the fundamental values of equality, the exercise of rights, non-discrimination and equality. the aim is to ensure that the roma community has genuine access to education, employment, housing, health and culture. the reference to european programmes and funding which can be used for the social and economic integration of roma is timely, given their under-utilisation. this resolution is all the more important because the unfortunate and unacceptable discrimination against roma in several countries of the european union, such as france and other member states, is well known.
in writing. - discrimination against roma is known to exist in several european union countries. there have been problems in france and other member states of the european union recently, and this could be aggravated by the economic and social crisis. the rapporteur, who is a member of the european parliament of roma origin, has therefore tried to make the european parliament aware of this situation. it is in this context that the resolution adopted today calls for the commission to propose and the council to adopt a european union strategy for the integration of roma, as an indicative and inclusive multi-level european action plan, based on the fundamental values of equality, the exercise of rights, non-discrimination and equality between men and women. it also recalls that there are european programmes and funding which can be used for the social and economic integration of roma, but that communication at all levels needs to be improved if they are to be properly used. the aim is to ensure that the roma community has genuine access to education, employment, housing, health and culture.
in writing. − the eu is a place of solidarity and inclusion, and it should do what is necessary to ensure that roma are no longer discriminated against and have the same rights to education, employment, health and housing in all member states, as well as in those that in the future wish to integrate it. the roma should be concerned about children who are generally denied access to schooling, about children and women who are used to begging, about begging being chosen as a life option, about work being rejected and about the use of social security schemes in third countries as an alternative. decisive steps must be taken to end discrimination, but this will require that roma do not exclude themselves and help them to integrate into a european area that is intended to be inclusive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to effectively address the problems and challenges related to this sensitive issue of the inclusion of roma communities.
in writing. − i welcome this report, as industrial policy is a priority for the europe 2020 strategy and the main engine of the european economy. the attention paid to this sector stems from the fact that it accounts for three quarters of european exports, provides employment for 57 million citizens and accounts for 80% of r & d investment. for europe to be competitive in this area, in my view, the focus must be on the defence of green and innovative projects based on knowledge.
in writing. − europe is currently facing a decline in its competitiveness in global markets. in this sense, europe must find ways to strengthen its industrial base to meet the new challenges. this report on industrial policy for the age of globalisation sets out proposals to revitalise european industry. an integrated and sustainable industrial policy should be based on scientific research, innovation, increased resource efficiency, a strategy for raw materials, the strengthening of smes and the development of regional networks. in particular, it is essential that energy efficiency and the introduction of information and communication technologies in industrial sectors form the basis of the industrial revolution in order to increase competitiveness, economic growth and employment. i particularly welcome the emphasis on traditional european industry, which is fundamental to our economy. measures such as the introduction of new technologies and a greater effort in scientific research and innovation in sectors such as manufacturing are of crucial importance. only then will it be possible to put european industry back on the leading edge of the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only an ambitious and environmentally efficient industrial strategy can renew and stimulate european productive capacity and play a central role in creating highly skilled and well-paid jobs in the european union.
in writing. - when europe is experiencing an unprecedented crisis, which is budgetary but not only, we cannot forget the preponderant role of industry, which represents 37% of european gdp, and the challenges it faces in a globalised world, in which emerging economies - but also the united states - are betting on aggressive industrial policies based on massive investments in r & d and in key sectors, competing with europe with the advantage of not having the same environmental, social and labour constraints. there is no miracle solution. the europe 2020 strategy, despite its many virtualities, will not be the magic wand for european industry in a world where competition is global and fierce. i therefore believe that the only way out for european industry is to specialise and to make a definitive commitment to quality and cutting-edge technologies, as well as to rationalise costs and improve management efficiency. the european product must be preferred, not because it is cheaper - which it never will be - but because it is better and more innovative. it is only by excellence that european industry will be able to prevail. let's hope we can meet the challenge.
in writing. - the importance of european industry is unquestionable. it accounts for three quarters of exports, one third of the eu's gross value added and one third of employment. despite its dynamic nature, it has not escaped the economic crisis and is at the forefront of the european policy agenda which this report supports. in fact, industrial policy must be at the heart of our concerns, because it is about the future: it creates jobs and promotes productive investment. but it also presents us with challenges: how do we ensure the sustainability of resources in the face of climate change? the eu needs a cohesive industrial policy that instills confidence in businesses and helps them to emerge from the crisis. to promote a modern industry (efficient, reducing energy costs and producing environmentally responsible co2) and competitive (based on research, innovation and recycling of raw materials). because we must not forget that industrial policy is also social policy, i am voting in favour of this report. i would, however, point out the need to strengthen support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which account for the largest number of employees in the business sector in the eu, and to implement the trademark of origin.
in writing. - this is another report full of contradictions. on the one hand, it contains positive aspects, which we value, in the defence of industry and small and mediumsized enterprises. the existence of modern, efficient, job-creating and environmentally sustainable industries is an important instrument for the development of each country and region. but the current eu policy framework, whose more negative aspects have been deepening over the years, is clearly unfavourable to this design. on the contrary, it has been promoting the dismantling of important productive sectors, deindustrialization, the elimination of jobs, growing dependence in numerous countries and regions. the policies of liberalization and deregulation of international trade are a central pillar of this policy framework and make a decisive contribution to the present situation. the report insists on the need to defend these policies. he triggers them, ignoring their effects. it also insists on the sacrosanct principle of 'free competition', on the deepening of the internal market - both subsidiaries of the above-mentioned framework - on public-private partnerships and even on synergies between civil and military investment. the gue/ngl has sought to eliminate these more negative aspects of the report while maintaining its virtues. unfortunately, all the proposals have been rejected by the majority of this parliament. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - unfortunately, none of our amendments seeking to remove the most negative aspects of the report has been adopted. that is why we voted against the final vote on the european parliament's resolution. although, as i said in the plenary debate, there are positive aspects to the report, there are many contradictory positions. while it claims to defend industry and smes, it also contains proposals that insist on the liberalisation of international trade, free competition and the deepening of the internal market, public-private partnerships and even synergies between civil and military investment. we want industries that are resource-efficient, that are less carbon dependent, that value employment with rights, that guarantee women's equal rights in access to work, career advancement, salaries and participation in management and management bodies. we support other policies, particularly in terms of industrial policy, external trade, financial policy, research, science and innovation, which support smes and which are accompanied by a commitment to training and job qualification and respect for the dignity of those who work.
in writing. - european industry accounts for about one third of the eu's gross value added, with almost three quarters of european exports being industrial goods and one third of employment. on the other hand, it has a multiplier effect, with approximately two additional jobs in associated services being created for each job in industry. in view of the above, there is no doubt about the importance of the industrial sector in the economies of the eu member states. the economic crisis has, however, cast doubt on the importance of this sector to the detriment of the financial and service sectors. it is therefore time to review this situation and to invest heavily in this sector again. the path of european industry is specialization and the commitment to quality products and cutting-edge technologies. what is produced by our industry must be distinguished by innovation and quality and never by price.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis has highlighted the importance of industry to the eu economy, and it is therefore important to recognise the need for an integrated approach to industrial policy that combines competitiveness, innovation and sustainability and is capable of simultaneously stimulating growth, creating jobs and ensuring environmental preservation. european industry is facing numerous challenges and it is therefore essential that it invests in new technologies and solutions, in the qualification of human resources, in the efficiency of production systems and management models and in the strengthening of smes.
in writing. − european industry and its multiplier effect account for about one third of the eu's gross value added and are the livelihood of 57 million people. it is urgent to create an industrial policy that fosters coordination between member states and their competitive potential, as expressed in the eu2020 strategy. the relevance of this report in a period of economic recession shows that despite its importance, this sector is relegated to the background. this evidence requires a close look at the challenges facing european industry, namely the restructuring and reorientation of its fabric, based on a global knowledge society based on innovation and research, to face competition from emerging economies. in addition, new dynamics, climate and demographic changes and the process of urbanization/depopulation are added. of the fifteen points put forward by the rapporteur, i would emphasise the measures affecting smes, the real engines of growth in the eu. the simplification of european procedures for obtaining financing, more and better information for smes on operational programmes, the creation of innovation hubs and networks, and increased support from the ecb are key initiatives for the success of european industrial policy.
the tendency in the european union to use the crisis as a pretext to increase pressure on the member states, to devalue wages, to increase the exploitation of workers, to guarantee ever greater profits and gains for economic and financial groups, revealing the anti-social cruelty of capitalism, is very short-lived. as if the irrational criteria of the stability pact were not enough, with the proposals of the so-called economic governance and the so-called competitiveness pact, namely the attempt to prevent wage increases due to inflation and to increase the legal retirement age, we would have even more serious attacks on social and labour rights. what is already happening in this area in some countries, such as portugal, greece and ireland, is of the greatest gravity, namely wage cuts and the freezing of pensions and reforms, even the lowest and below the poverty line. in the case of portugal, there was also a wage cut on the national minimum wage which was scheduled for the beginning of this year. they considered that 500 euros a month was too much and decided to cut 15 euros, even though they knew that more than 13% of portuguese women workers receive only this amount, while for men this happens to 6% of workers. it is a clear example of institutionalized discrimination and a reflection of the so-called austerity policies which the commission, together with the council and the governments of our countries, is applying, with the consequent aggravation of social inequalities, discrimination, the devaluation of labour and the increase in poverty, while the backlash against financial speculation and tax havens continues, and that is why we here send our solidarity to the young workers and teachers who will be fighting in the coming weekends, already on saturday, 12 march, following the big national demonstration of the cgtp in lisbon on 19 march. it is the fight that will go on against these anti-social policies. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'zul letter' (rule 149 (8))
well, the question is interesting in this sense: it is obvious that these policies of the european union are creating a great revolt also in portugal and, therefore, next weekend, young people and teachers are coming out to demonstrate against this policy and, on the 19th, the cgtp, the general confederation of portuguese workers, has a large national demonstration planned for lisbon against these anti-social policies. naturally this is reflected in the behaviour of the portuguese population because the country has already entered recession and the workers and the population are living worse and worse, inequalities are getting worse and poverty is also getting worse. the european union, the european commission and the council... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, we are talking about proposals on wages and proposals on retirement age and the least we can say about these proposals is that they are frankly unfair. they are unfair and they are insisting on recipes that have already been proven, more than once, to be failed recipes. what is happening in ireland, greece, portugal, spain, italy and who knows how many other countries, because this is an endless cadence, are different situations between each of these countries, but there are some things in common. one of the things we have in common is an unprecedented transfer of value from labor to financial capital. we cannot accept that. the other thing we have in common is that the people who are paying for this crisis are the workers and the pensioners and the pensioners, and they are also paying for it a whole generation of precarious people who have no security in this society in which we live, and that is why i would like to conclude by saying, mr president and mr commissioner, that we cannot continue to condemn people to poverty. i sincerely hope ... (the president cut the speaker off)
author. − mr president, commissioner, it has been two years since the commission launched a communication in february 2009 on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. the importance of this issue is overwhelming. since then, several disasters have struck europe with profound negative consequences for the people, the territory, the economy and the environment. the commission's communication has generally followed a correct approach, but it is not sufficient, as this parliament has come to believe. the commission is also slow to implement the commitments it has itself made in that communication. for example, the commitment to draw up a catalogue of prevention measures to be financed by the european union and implemented by the member states. two years later, where is this catalogue? will the commission wait for the next multiannual financial framework to present it? two more years? however, in september last year this parliament adopted a report on the same subject. a report which comes forward with a set of important recommendations. it is important to say that this report was preceded by a very wide-ranging debate, not only here in parliament but also with a wide range of national, regional and local bodies involved in the various phases of the disaster management cycle. the report also draws on the experience of the people affected by disasters over the past year. let me mention here some of the specific points of the report among the many that it contains. a series of measures has been defined to provide priority support to member states for the correction of risk-inducing situations in areas such as forestry management, protection and defence of the coastline, the restoration and protection of watersheds, the protection and rehabilitation of inhabited areas particularly vulnerable to certain types of disasters, and the maintenance of agricultural activity in areas affected by depopulation and at risk of natural disasters. how has the commission included, or intends to include, these areas in the catalogue of measures which it has yet to draw up? the report also proposed the creation of a european public agricultural insurance scheme and the establishment of a system of minimum compensation for farmers affected by disasters. i would point out that this is very different from the possibility that currently exists with the cap health check of member states subsidising insurance internally. what is being proposed is an insurance funded by community funds which will put all farmers on an equal footing in terms of protection against disasters, whether farmers in the member states with the greatest difficulties or farmers in rich countries. disasters are, as we know, deeply unjust, almost always affecting those who have the least means of protecting themselves, whether they are individuals or states. if there is one area where the solidarity of the european union and the principle of cohesion should have visible expression, it is in the protection of people, the economy and the environment in the face of disasters. so i ask what the commission has done or will do to reduce the disparities between regions and member states in this area. in particular, by helping to improve prevention in regions and member states with a high risk exposure and lower economic capacity. another area covered in the report is the strengthening of early warning systems in the member states and the establishment of links between the various early warning systems. what steps have been taken in this regard? what are the next steps? finally, it should be remembered that, in the context of prevention and in the light of the experience gained in recent disasters, it is imperative to revise the solidarity fund regulation to allow for a more flexible and timely mobilisation of this instrument. what has the commission done, or what is it going to do, for this review? i would remind you that a year ago the island of madeira was struck by a major disaster, one which caused deaths and considerable material damage to strategic infrastructure and essential equipment. a year later, not a penny of european union aid reached madeira. what will the commission do to change this situation when the solidarity fund regulation currently says that it must make it possible to contribute to the rapid restoration of normal living conditions, it must act swiftly and effectively and contribute quickly to the mobilization of relief resources? where's the speed when a year later not a penny has reached madeira island? in conclusion, mr president, i would once again urge the commission to take the broad consensus that this report has gathered during its discussion and vote as a clear sign that these recommendations, the recommendations in the report, are to be put into practice. many of these recommendations were already contained in previous resolutions of this parliament and unfortunately nothing has been done and the commission has particular responsibilities in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank parliament for the opportunity to exchange views on disaster prevention, and mr ferreira in particular for his continued interest in the subject. the disasters of last year were a salutary reminder that the eu and its member states need to step up work on disaster prevention. we need to be ambitious. we all know that investing in disaster prevention pays off. at the same time, ensuring cost-effective and increased investment in disaster prevention is a challenge. we are now assessing the effectiveness of existing eu financing instruments. we are also developing a catalogue of prevention measures that would be considered by member states for eu funding. our objective is to increase the impact of eu funding and to accelerate the implementation of regional fund support. we are also looking at innovative financing instruments, such as insurance pooling to share risks. effective investments in disaster prevention will help to save lives, limit damages and, ultimately, save money. actions are also under way to improve our knowledge of disasters. we have worked with the european environment agency on a report assessing the frequency of disasters in europe and their impact on humans, the economies and ecosystems. we also need clear and transparent assessments of the risks we face. on 21 december last year we issued a guidance paper on national risk assessment and mapping to encourage member states in fostering a comprehensive risk-management culture. developing fully-fledged risk management policies will require the involvement of all actors. the increased frequency and intensity of disasters in europe should also provide further incentives for member states to invest in preparedness and build up their capacity. besides the prevention elements, it is equally important that member states, and europe as a whole, are able to provide the best possible response. in october last year we outlined our policy proposal for a european disaster-response capacity. our objective is to improve the efficiency, the coherence and the visibility of the eu’s response to disasters.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. sadly, natural and man-made disasters are becoming more frequent and more devastating. although the responsibility for disaster prevention lies primarily with the member states, the european union can make an important contribution. there are already some community instruments to support these disaster prevention activities. but it is important that these instruments are assessed so that we can better identify the gaps. in addition, there is also a need to improve the financing mechanisms. it has already been mentioned here and i repeat what happened to madeira, that there has been no response yet to the promised support and it is clear that the victims of this catastrophe cannot wait indefinitely. the commission has also been asked on several occasions to develop community guidelines for risk mapping. i would also like to stress the importance of a complete inventory of sources of information, because only with reliable information is it possible to act appropriately. some of the suggestions and proposals in the ferreira report were already in my report which was approved by parliament in 2006, and the commission has not yet responded to many of these proposals. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner if he can tell us about the work done so far to set up the european drought observatory and also in relation to the directive on forest fires.
for the gue/ngl group i would like to begin by saying that i fully support what my colleague has said. the prevention of natural and man-made disasters is of enormous and growing importance and the european commission systematically presents us with a number of procedural and timetable intentions. but there is a very complicated problem, as has already been mentioned. the solidarity fund is the instrument that normally responds to these situations, but it responds in a very, very long time, from nine months to a year, and that after the disaster. as has already been said, and i will repeat it again and repeat it again as often as necessary, there is the case of madeira, which suffered a major catastrophe a year ago and has not yet received any support. and so i ask, and i reinforce this question: is it not time for the commission to review the procedure for the fund itself and the financing model itself? how can we maintain an emergency fund to deal with situations that are increasingly chronic? we don't know where it's going to happen, but we know it's going to happen, and climate change is there to prove it. therefore, the exception can never respond to a situation of regularity.
mr president, the concerns raised here in the field of disaster prevention and response are a matter of great sensitivity and of the utmost importance to our populations which should not and cannot be delayed. we are talking about very sensitive situations affecting the safety of people and their property, which often move us all by the loss of lives, by the destruction of families, by the destruction of entire working lives. but all our demonstrations in the face of tragedies, which in a media way impress everyone and make everyone aware, are worthless if we then fall asleep to the work we must do so that those situations can be avoided, minimized or better assisted. commissioner, my colleagues have focused the matter very well here. it is a matter where the european union can best demonstrate its presence with its citizens, helping them to prevent disasters and, above all, when they occur, to be at their side when they are most in need and most vulnerable.
the number of natural disasters has been increasing, both in intensity and frequency. the recent case of volcanic ash in iceland in april and may last year seriously affected the whole of european airspace, where 75% of the airport network was inactive, with considerable economic losses, affecting some ten million passengers. with further disruptions to air traffic expected, it is urgent to think about crisis management measures. this requires investment in ground and airborne technological equipment to provide accurate, real-time information. it is also essential to define the role and function of the various institutions in the course of crisis management, in order to ensure concerted coordination and avoid greater damage to the various actors involved. this event highlighted the importance of developing the integration of european airspace through the single european sky initiative. the continuing growth of air traffic, the fragmentation of european airspace and unforeseen events such as volcanic ash prove that the eu needs to coordinate and harmonise air procedures in order to bring added value to the european aviation sector.
mr president, there is a new element which has come up which is not reflected in the resolution and which i ask parliament to join me in expressing our indignation and concern. this is what happened to the bbc's staff, who were illegally detained and tortured, including subjected to mock executions, and who saw many other libyan detainees in prison in absolutely inhumane conditions. it also shows that journalists are not able to do their work freely in libya. this is an important point which i ask parliament to take up in the message we must convey to the european council of our indignation and concern.
mr president, the information i have is that the liberal group would be proposing the oral amendment that has been agreed, but if that is not the case i shall be happy to pass it on.
in writing. - the resolution is adopted in view of the worrying situation of the hungarian media law, which calls into question the obligation of balanced coverage imposed on all audiovisual media providers, the respect for proportionality and the fundamental rights of expression and information, thus legitimising the concerns shared by the osce and the ep that this legislation is contrary to international standards on freedom of expression, the abolition of the political and financial independence of the public service media or the scope of the regulation. these concerns are all the more worrying in the light of the warning issued by the council of europe commissioner for human rights. on the basis of these findings, the recommendations in this proposal to review media legislation on the basis of the observations of the commission, the osce and the council of europe should be endorsed and the commission should be urged to prepare a proposal for a directive on media freedom and pluralism by the end of the year in order to address the inadequate eu legislative framework in order to avoid similar situations in the future.
in writing. − the freedom of expression of each individual, the free flow of information and the freedom and pluralism of the media are basic principles of european integration and its fundamental values. the development and implementation of a regulatory framework for the media should respect the democratic rules applicable to the organisation and governance of media systems. i call on the hungarian authorities to restore the independence of the media's governance and to put an end to state interference in freedom of expression. excessive regulation of the media is counterproductive, undermining effective pluralism in the public sphere. i call on the hungarian authorities to involve all stakeholders, including opposition parties and civil society, in the reform of the media law so that they can play a meaningful role in the reform of this legislation, which regulates such a fundamental aspect of the functioning of a democratic society.
in writing. − freedom and pluralism of the media are fundamental rights guaranteeing freedom of expression and freedom to receive and impart information without any interference or pressure from public authorities. the european commission, as guardian of the treaties, has expressed its concern and requested information from hungary on the fact that there may be a violation of this right, in particular because the hungarian media legislation may not be in line with the audiovisual media services directive. i was pleased to be informed that on 7 march the hungarian parliament adopted the amendments which had been agreed between its government and the commission, although i did not understand why the hungarian socialists and greens had voted against them. in the light of commissioner kroes' statements, there seems to be no doubt that hungary has followed the commission's recommendations and that the amended version of the law in question is in line with european law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the media law in hungary because freedom of the press is one of the eu's fundamental values. i believe that the commission should continue to examine in depth the compatibility of the hungarian media law with european legislation, in particular with the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - i do not think it makes sense for the european parliament to take a position on this issue at this time when all the guarantees of respect for freedom of expression have already been given, including by the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán. moreover, as a matter of principle, i am reluctant to assess political, legislative and judicial acts which fall within the exclusive competence of the legislative, executive and judicial powers of a member state. a member that's not mine.
in writing. − freedom of expression and information, including freedom to express opinions and freedom to receive and impart information without interference or pressure, are civilization values for which many have fought over the years, including in portugal. the communists have been and are on the front lines of this struggle. unfortunately, there is still reason to continue this in several countries of the european union. pluralism and media freedom continue to raise concerns in several member states. some of the contributing factors are often overlooked, such as the concentration of media ownership in a handful of large economic groups or attacks on the rights of media professionals and the existence of increasingly precarious employment relationships. in addition, there is the interference of the political powers which still exists in many countries and which should be of concern to us.
in writing. − freedom of expression and information, with the consequent pluralism of the media, including freedom to express opinions and freedom to receive and impart information without interference or pressure from public authorities, are gains of civilization. however, unfortunately, in many countries of the european union we are often confronted with violations of these fundamental rights. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. even in portugal there are several known cases of attacks on the pluralism of the media which do not in any way dignify democracy. but we do not agree that there should be a policy of permanent political interference by the european union in the governmental activity of each country, as is the case here in a few paragraphs. it is in this context that we voted on the resolution on the media law in hungary, taking into account its positive and negative aspects.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution is inappropriate in time and form, because it is well known that after the first criticisms of the media law in hungary and the recommendations made by the commission, the hungarian government has revised its position and changed everything that the commission criticised in the law. the law passed by the hungarian parliament on 7 march was thus already a version that was perfectly in line with european law. i do not understand the insistence of the left in this parliament in voting on this motion for a resolution. so vote against it anyway.
in writing. as i said when i spoke in the debate on the priorities of the hungarian presidency, these are matters of hungary's internal life which can be, and have been, regulated in a healthy and normal relationship between the european commission and the hungarian government and parliament. as a defender of freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and of the press, i can only congratulate myself on the results achieved.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. i would remind you that the international community has shown complete unanimity in the un security council in imposing sanctions on this regime. strongly support unscr 1970/2011 and the measures to be taken by the security council, including the embargo, banning internal repression equipment and allowing the freezing of funds of persons involved in human rights abuses, drawing attention to the need to implement the africa eu resolution which allows the freezing of illegally acquired assets, and action in this regard by european financial institutions as well as member states by not allowing mercenary activities. rapid and effective humanitarian action by the eu and the un is needed. i would like to conclude by saying that the events in libya, egypt and tunisia call for a change of paradigm in european foreign policy towards the countries of the southern mediterranean and i express my solidarity with the lebanese people.
in writing. - the recent protests in several arab countries demonstrate that undemocratic and authoritarian regimes cannot guarantee credible stability and that democratic values are central to economic and political partnerships. i call for close involvement in the work of the task force set up to coordinate the eu's response to the crisis in libya and the rest of the mediterranean region. the union for the mediterranean must adapt to new times and circumstances and reflect and act on recent developments in order to put forward proposals on how best to promote democracy and human rights in its member states and in the region, including in libya, and on possible reforms to make its own role stronger, more coherent and more effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the southern neighbours, and libya in particular, including the humanitarian aspects, because i believe that colonel gaddafi must leave power immediately in order to allow a peaceful political transition and to avoid further bloodshed. i strongly condemn the human rights violations in libya and in particular the violent repression of pro-democracy protesters, journalists and human rights defenders, and express my solidarity with the libyan people.
in writing. - at the time of the vote on this resolution it is not yet clear what will be the outcome of the revolutions throughout the mediterranean which have sought to overthrow long-standing authoritarian regimes. in the libyan case, there are conflicting reports about the successes and failures of the rebels and the forces still supporting the dictatorial regime of gaddafi, and it seems that we are facing a case of real civil war. however, there are multiple sources denouncing the brutal violence and unprecedented repression by the libyan regime and the very high number of victims it has caused. the united nations itself has rightly condemned the atrocities committed. it is now clear that the people who are in revolt do not want to live under regimes which do not respect their rights and which do not ensure respect for the rules of democracy and the rule of law. the european union cannot remain indifferent to what is happening. it must demand an end to violence, persevere in condemning and sanctioning those responsible for it, support those who fight for our common values and seek to show solidarity, to follow and better understand the aspirations, desires and trends of movements that are seeking change.
in writing. - this resolution is worrying and unacceptable. in particular, in the context of the latest events in libya, the need for a peaceful and political solution to the conflict, without external interference, is more urgent than ever. in the face of the dangerous and serious accumulation of actions which, instead of contributing to the reduction of tension, are aimed at the preparation of acts of aggression by the usa and nato against libya, the majority of the european parliament is condoning acts of interference, aggression or occupation of libya. any aggression against this country, whatever the pretext and mandate, would have grave consequences for a people already living in a situation of deep tension and insecurity. it would be deeply damaging to all those in libya who are continuing to fight for their rights, democracy, sovereignty and peace and would introduce serious factors of instability and conflict into the region. any military aggression against libya - inseparable from the objectives of controlling libya's natural resources - will be directed not only against the libyan people but against all the peoples of the region who have risen up and continue to fight for their social and political rights, for freedom, for democracy and for the real sovereignty and independence of their countries.
in writing. - we express our deep concern at the latest developments in libya, but we support a peaceful and political solution to the conflict without outside interference. the resolution of the ep, unfortunately, defends military intervention, since there can be no no-fly zone without military intervention. the resolution, therefore, rather than contributing to a peaceful solution, seems to be aimed at the preparation of acts of aggression by the usa, nato and perhaps the european union against libya, and we therefore express our firm opposition to any external military intervention in that country. any aggression against libya, whatever the pretext and mandate, would have grave consequences for a people already living in a situation of deep tension and insecurity; the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. any military aggression by the us and its allies - inseparable from their objectives of controlling libya's natural resources - would be directed not only against the libyan people, but against all the peoples of the region who have risen up and continue the struggle for their social and political rights, for freedom, democracy and the real sovereignty and independence of their countries. these are struggles we support. that is why we voted against the resolution.
in writing. - the situation in libya is completely unacceptable and the international community must take more concrete action to bring about an immediate end to all forms of aggression against the civilian population. the imminence of a civil war in libya is worrying and must be avoided at all costs. the eu must lead this process and help find solutions to prevent the escalation of the conflict currently taking place in that country.
in writing. − the seriousness of the situation facing the people of libya, victims of a violent repression by the gaddafi regime which has already caused a significant number of deaths, wounded and refugees, requires determined and concerted action by the international community, and the eu should take a leading role and a firm position in condemning those responsible for the atrocities committed, in adopting and applying appropriate sanctions and measures, and in supporting the legitimate democratic aspirations of this people.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that the government of iran must respect the legitimate demands of its people for fundamental freedoms and for the improvement of economic and social conditions, as well as their desire for cooperation by iran with the international community. the eu's approach must be to treat human rights as a key factor and to recognise iran's stabilising role in the region, provided that it normalises relations with its neighbours and other international actors, abandons its nuclear programme and improves human and democratic conditions. i also agree with the council's position of a two-pronged approach to the nuclear issue: sanctions on the one hand, but offering dialogue on the other. in conclusion, i would say that the eu should not be reductive in its approach to iran's nuclear programme alone, but should also take into account human rights issues and the country's potential to stabilise the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that iran must put an end to all forms of discrimination, which particularly affects women. human rights and fundamental rights continue to be violated with impunity in iran. the iranian authorities must put an end, once and for all, in law and in practice, to all forms of torture or other cruel and inhuman treatment.
in writing. - iran has a long and rich history and a particular identity which must be taken into account at a time of growing concern about recent political and social developments in that country. without renouncing european values and the priority given to democracy and human rights, i believe that the channels of dialogue with tehran should not be closed and that the country should be motivated to make the changes it so badly needs. i am concerned about the recent attacks on opposition members and hope that the iranian regime will understand how counterproductive this is and how it could isolate it internationally.
in writing. - we reaffirm that we do not share and condemn a restrictive and instrumental view of human rights. the eu often hypocritically uses them to conceal objectives of a very different nature. if that were not the case, it would be justified to extend many of the considerations and criticisms made here to other countries in the region, such as israel or saudi arabia, by applying to them the same criteria that are now applied to iran. it is important to point out that peace and security in the region are incompatible with the continuation of israel's occupation of the palestinian territories and the policy of support for it by the usa and nato in the region, as well as the complicity of the eu. the resolution omits it.
in writing. - human rights violations are a reprehensible act in iran or any country in the world. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's nuclear programme is implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty of rome. the invocation of the latter is merely a pretext. if the objective is indeed to ensure respect for human rights and security in the region, then it would be necessary to expose the situation in other countries in the region, such as israel and saudi arabia, and apply the same criteria to these countries. the report also conceals the threat to peace and security in the region posed by the continued occupation of the palestinian territories by israel and the policy of support given to it by the usa and nato in the region. we are against interference in the internal affairs of any country which is an attack on national sovereignty and international law. we are therefore against the manipulation or exploitation of certain forces or parties in the iranian opposition and against certain campaigns which are aimed at preserving the interests of the european union and its allies, and not the interests of the iranian people.
in writing. - iran's past and cultural particularity have to be considered when addressing current political and social developments. the continuing violations of human rights in iran are a cause for concern, but should not prevent a dialogue with that country with the aim of putting an end to these incidents. we have to be proactive in finding solutions that lead to an end to these incidents. the recent attacks on opposition members are worrying and it is necessary to make the iranian regime see that such behaviour only leads to greater international isolation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which describes the serious situation in iran, denounces the repressive practices and systematic violations of human rights perpetrated by the iranian authorities and stresses the need to pursue a diplomatic solution to the nuclear issue. i join in particular in expressing solidarity with the iranian people who, following the 2009 presidential elections, have legitimately called for democratic change in their country.
in writing. - i unconditionally support this joint resolution, stressing the importance of the issues discussed with regard to the rights of persons belonging to minorities, the promotion of the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the rights of children, while combating terrorism. i draw attention to the conclusions agreeing that the eu should strengthen its practice of speaking with one voice as it would increase its visibility and influence as a global actor, and that delegations in geneva and new york should increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of eu action at the unhrc. i agree with the resolution that calls on member states to encourage the unhrc to give equal attention to discrimination based on all principles, including gender, race, age, sexual orientation, religion or belief. i also agree with the reform which stresses the need for the unhrc to be more active as a warning and preventive mechanism, by maintaining the special procedures and preserving the independence of the office of the high commissioner for human rights, as well as the funding needed to maintain its regional offices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that the agenda of the 16th regular session of the human rights council contains important topics of particular urgency. the importance of the agenda, which includes reports on the rights of persons belonging to national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities, on the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the fight against terrorism, and numerous meetings on the rights of the child, should be underlined.
in writing. − the 16th session of the united nations human rights council will take place at a particularly troubled historical period which calls into question its own composition, since some of its members are far from fulfilling the precept of the universal declaration of human rights and promoting and protecting human rights as their mission should be. the european union must actively participate in this session and do everything possible to ensure that its universalist vision of human rights based on the dignity of the human person is increasingly widely outlined and effectively applied in all countries of the world. the appointment of a european high level representative for human rights could contribute to the increased visibility of the union's positions and the persistence of the strategy of one message with several voices by the member states in the council and has the potential to continue to build support for european positions.
in writing. - the european parliament has long accustomed us to a policy of double standards in human rights matters. the restrictive and instrumental view they have of the declaration adopted by the united nations general assembly in 1948: the universal declaration of human rights, is also well known. once again, the selective way in which various states are referred to is evident in this report. the countries with which the eu has economic and diplomatic relations and which it attaches strategic importance to because they serve its strategic interests, despite the fact that they are experiencing serious human rights violations, are omitted. these are the examples of israel, colombia or morocco, just to name three, on different continents. we do not have a restrictive view of human rights. we take seriously all the contents of the declaration, which we consider to be the inspiration for our political intervention. finally, we do not accept the european union's claim to a permanent seat in the un general assembly for the simple reason that this would not make sense in the light of the spirit and principles of the organization, as contained in the charter of the united nations. the un is and must remain an organization of independent and sovereign states.
in writing. - the selective nature of the states criticised in this report and the instrumental nature of this debate are clear. the hypocritical use of this report is evident in that it does not criticise countries with which the eu has good economic and diplomatic relations and which are of strategic importance, despite the fact that human rights violations are taking place in them, such as colombia and honduras. nor is there any demand for an end to morocco's occupation of western sahara or of palestine by israel. another point which we cannot support is the claim of the european union for a permanent seat in the un general assembly, because the un is an organization of sovereign and independent states, whereas the european union is not a state within the meaning of the united nations charter. the defence of human rights - including their indivisibility and non-hierarchization - and their consideration as an indispensable condition for respect for the rights of peoples and for true social justice, peace, freedom and democracy, are a cornerstone of our political action. they count on us to defend human rights, not to exercise hypocrisy.
in writing. - in the troubled times we are facing today, particularly in the regions of north africa, this 16th session of the human rights council is of paramount importance. the european union will therefore have to play a very active part in this session and make every effort to ensure that its universalist approach to human rights, based on respect for the dignity of the human person, is followed by all countries in the world. it is also important for the eu to appoint a high-level european human rights representative so that its vision of the defence of human rights is increasingly widely spread.
in writing. − respect for, promotion of and safeguarding the universality of human rights are part of the eu's legal and ethical acquis and constitute one of the foundations of european unity and integrity. every effort should therefore be made to make the eu and its member states' action in this area more visible and effective, and it is important to ensure their active and committed participation in this important 16th session of the human rights council (unhrc) as well as in the unhrc review process to be held in 2011.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the one hand, it's to tell the advocates of tolerance in pakistan, the advocates of religious freedom in pakistan, that they are not alone. that's a very modest end, but i think it's a first end of some dignity and some decency in the debate and getting this message out to those in pakistan who are defending religious freedom, so that's a first given, to tell them that they are not alone. one is to tell the pakistani government very clearly that it cannot let the fanatics in pakistan think that they speak for everyone, because in matters of blasphemy laws, like this one in pakistan now, or like, for example, the situation we've had in indonesia, this is the vicious circle that countries often get into. a minority of very vocal, very loud fanatics who, at some point, start to think that they speak for everyone because they can intimidate the rest of society, and then, in this case, if governments are not in the front line defending freedom within their own countries and fighting against impunity, if governments are not imposing this wall of decency, the whole country risks sinking into intolerance. the government of pakistan must therefore thoroughly investigate this matter of mr bhatti's murder, as it has done before with regard to the governor of punjab, and it must also carry out the investigations to the end. it cannot at all allow the investigations to be tainted by the kind of investigative practices that the pakistani police and secret services have had, which have destroyed investigations, even those on the assassination of former prime minister benazir bhutto. we must therefore ensure these two ends: that the government of pakistan ensures that the fanatics do not take over public discourse and, for our part, that we assure our solidarity with the advocates of tolerance in that country.
the author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start this urgent debate - we have always known of cases of human rights abuses outside the european union - with our vote today on freedom of the press in hungary, that is, within the european union, because the defence of fundamental rights in our house and the defence of human rights outside the european union are inextricably linked. it is the fact that we have succeeded, in a vote that was tearing this house in half, that gave us a lot of work for two months, in being able to speak about the defects we have within the european union itself, that allows us to address president lukashenko of belarus with our heads held high and tell him that he must stop the repression of the demonstrations and the repression of the opposition and the repression of the press in his own country, because president lukashenko himself is the face of a government that thinks it has arrogated to itself the right to decide what is right and what is wrong, what is balanced and what is neutral and what is objective, not only in its own publications, but also in those of the opposition, also in those of the foreign press, including president lukashenko, we saw him following the december repression address the international press with a body of arrogance. i believe that this is how we can hope that the voice of the european parliament and the voice of the commission and the voice of the council will be heard in belarus and that is how we will be able to have moral authority, which we also need to maintain through our example at home.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have spoken about pakistan and belarus, and there are good reasons for thinking that the european union has not only moral authority but also leverage, power over the external authorities to try to get them to at least go in the right direction. in fact, when we talk about china, we know that leverage is diminishing because much of what we say in this house is countered by what european governments are doing in our capitals, by what mr sarkozi, mrs merkel or the governments of my own country, portugal, like mr socrates, who only very recently diverted a protest demonstration against the chinese authorities so that the prime minister visiting lisbon would not have to face the protesters against his regime. i am referring to the fact that the european union is often a participant in this dream world that the chinese leaders have created for themselves, in which there is no opposition, in which the development model is the one that is good for everyone, the same one that is good for beijing or shanghai or canton or the uighur region or tibet. it is therefore very difficult for the european parliament to say what we are going to say today and what we have written in our resolution, to want the beijing authorities to stop committing this demographic genocide against the uyghurs, to want them to preserve the cultural and ethnic diversity of the regions that make up china, to want them to preserve places that have architectural or heritage value, but then, on the other hand, to see the leaders of our own countries throw themselves into the arms of the chinese leaders, apologise to them for everything that the chinese leaders do within their country and give them carte blanche in the name of a development model that, after all, we even show a certain very basic admiration for. so once again it is demonstrated that moral authority begins at home and that the european union, in this case, when we are talking about others we are first talking about ourselves and we have to review our attitudes towards china.
in writing. - i approve this report because the european council's proposal for the creation of a permanent stability mechanism would create an intergovernmental procedure outside the eu sphere, which would be a dangerous precedent. the european institutions, in particular the european commission and the parliament, should be an integral part of this council (the commission as a member and not an observer). the european parliament is an important democratic watchdog and the council should consider the s&d group's proposal for a possible commitment to involve the ep in the operational components of the mechanism. in this connection, i would stress the idea in the report that 'the mechanism must not give rise to a new model of european governance which does not meet the democratic standards achieved in the union'. moreover, the stability mechanism should be seen as only one part of the framework of solutions for european economic governance. for example, the commission should investigate the potential of a future eurobond system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on agreeing that the european stability mechanism is an important element of an overall package of measures to define a new framework and to strengthen budgetary discipline and the coordination of the economic and financial policies of the member states, which should include promoting a joint european union response to the challenges posed by growth, and at the same time overcoming economic and social imbalances and improving competitiveness.
in writing. - i support the report by mr brok and mr gualtieri, who acknowledge the need to make it possible, within the institutional framework of the union, to create a stability mechanism for the member states whose currency is the euro. practice has shown that more economic governance is needed in the eu, with consequences for economic and financial policies and allowing for greater budgetary discipline. the report rightly stresses that temporary measures are insufficient and that any attempt to create a system outside the eu's institutional framework is a threat to the community project and, for this reason too, rightly calls for a more relevant role for the european commission. i also agree with the invitation to the commission to present the legislative initiatives that may prove necessary to strengthen financial stability and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards the stability mechanism for member states whose currency is the euro, as this is essential to stabilise the euro area in the long term, limit speculation against european countries and protect citizens. despite the intergovernmental nature of this mechanism, i welcome the strengthening of the community method and the role of the european institutions, in particular the commission and the european parliament, in the economic governance of the eu.
in writing. - in exceptional moments in the life of states and organisations, such as the one we are now experiencing, it is the duty of all of us to find adequate and ambitious answers to the challenges facing us. the debt crisis facing europe requires exceptional measures and the maturity needed to find in our institutional structure the way to mechanisms that will give the euro the necessary stability and robustness, firmly anchored in budgetary discipline, coordination of macroeconomic policies and the existence of sustainable growth policies. while i support regulatory stability, it is because we are living in an exceptional moment that i support the amendment to article 136 tfeu now proposed, insofar as it allows the creation of a permanent mechanism for safeguarding the stability of the eurozone, as proposed in report a7-0282/2010, approved by this plenary on 20 october 2010.
in writing. − the european union must strengthen its economic governance, which can only be achieved through the community method, with the commission taking the lead, rather than the intergovernmental method. i hope that the strengthening of the jcp, the european semester, the europe 2020 strategy and the amendment of article 136 tfeu on a stability mechanism will lead to sustainable economic growth. the functioning of this mechanism should respect the essential principles of democratic decision-making such as transparency, parliamentary control and democratic accountability. this mechanism is an important element of an overall package of measures designed to define a new framework to strengthen budgetary discipline and the coordination of the economic and financial policies of the member states, which should include promoting a joint european response to the challenges posed by growth and at the same time overcoming economic and social imbalances and improving competitiveness. i voted in favour of the creation of this mechanism in the hope that it will make a valuable contribution to bringing greater stability to financial markets and to sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - the simplified form in which the treaty is now to be amended is a good indication of the vacuum of the professions of faith in the importance which the treaty of lisbon attached to national parliaments (and to the european parliament), as well as the falsity of all the rhetoric about the deepening of democracy. a little over a year later, the treaty, which was supposed to last at least a generation, is being changed quickly and in a simplified way, at the will and under pressure of the german-led power directory, which wants to maintain at all costs the economic and political dominance guaranteed by the instruments of this eu, including the single currency. on the way is discussion, participation, democracy. if, in order to approve the treaty of lisbon, they avoided national referendums (and disregarded the few that were held), now they do not hesitate to escape even the scrutiny of the national parliaments. it is understandable if we take into account the fact that, with the mechanism they now want to introduce into the treaty and with the so-called 'economic governance', these risk becoming mere filler verbs. there is no doubt that they want to create a genuine 'strengthening vest' for the member states to implement the strategy of deepening... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - we are against the whole process of the announced amendment to the lisbon treaty, not only in terms of content but also in terms of form. the strict conditionality for the granting of financial assistance under the european stability mechanism is unacceptable for several reasons, of which the possibility of withdrawing powers and interfering in the governance of the member states of the european union whose currency is the euro is the most important, with particularly serious interference in the budgetary, social and labour areas. it is an amendment which is made on the margins of everyone, using a mechanism of the treaty itself, which not only allows for an amendment without any democratic participation, and indeed, continuing what they did with the refusal of national referendums for the approval of the treaty, but creates a mechanism which allows for a permanent control of the economic life of the member states. this report also follows the same line, presenting some amendments to the european commission's proposal on the amendment to the treaty on the functioning of the european union concerning a stability mechanism for member states whose currency is the euro, but always aiming to consolidate the leap they intend to make in economic governance, with the creation of the 'european semester', the deepening of sanctions ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the euro is not used as a bargaining chip in the world economy. in a less serious situation, i would not agree with the proposed amendment to the treaty of lisbon, which has only recently come into force. at this point, it is essential to go beyond temporary measures to stabilise the euro area and the eu must undoubtedly strengthen the means of combating the sovereign debt crisis. in this sense, the amendment of article 136 tfeu is essential for the creation of a permanent european stability mechanism that is effective in helping member states in difficulty.
in writing. − strengthening economic governance in the eu has become a priority, especially in the current international economic context. indeed, when the treaty of lisbon entered into force on 1 december 2009, there was no expectation that it would be amended in the near future. however, the exceptional circumstances of a financial, economic and social nature, which are already well known, have led to this amendment, which has the support of a majority of the political groups. i cannot, however, fail to stress that this simplified revision process should not set precedents for future constitutional revisions in which there are no truly exceptional circumstances such as those we are currently experiencing. in agreeing with the need for a concerted and coherent economic and financial policy among the euro area member states, which can ensure the cohesion and stability of the euro area, i voted in favour of this report which seeks to amend article 136 tfeu and thereby institutionalize a permanent european financial stability mechanism with the aim of ensuring stability and financial assistance under certain conditions, in particular a rigorous analysis and the implementation of an economic and financial recovery programme.
in writing. the sovereignty crisis affecting the member states is forcing the european union to rethink its economic strategy. the economic governance of the union is gradually becoming a reality. there is a need for a concerted and coherent economic and financial policy among the euro-zone member states, a genuine 'euro pact'. in this way, and in order to ensure the cohesion and stability of the euro area, this report seeks to amend article 136 tfeu and thus institutionalize a permanent european financial stability mechanism with the aim of ensuring stability and financial assistance, subject to certain conditions, including rigorous analysis and the implementation of an economic and financial recovery programme. i am voting in favour of this amendment because i believe it is essential to institutionalize and at the same time make the european mechanism more flexible. i would like to stress, however, that the commission must take account of the powers of the european institutions and that an institutional framework should not be created apart from them. the current situation requires that serious and real action be taken by the member states, and in particular by the euro-zone countries. however, i would stress that this simplified revision process should not set precedents for future constitutional revisions.
madam president, the portuguese parliament is today going to fail the fourth stability programme that the government has presented in 12 months. the majority of members will miss this document for reasons of the content of the package, but also because it was tabled in brussels before it was known, negotiated or adopted in portugal. that is why i put a first question to the hungarian presidency: in the light of this experience, does she intend to defend to her peers the obligation of these documents to have prior parliamentary approval or not? question number two: the council will decide tomorrow on a financing mechanism for the period after 2013, but it does not tell us anything about the current financing mechanism, which is the one that matters. with portugal entering a framework of early elections, the explosion of public debt, of interest rates is inevitable. what does the council intend to do to prevent speculation on portuguese public debt? and don't tell us that this is a portuguese matter because if austerity is ours, it is ours because the decisions are yours too.
madam president, it has already been said here that, unfortunately, at this very moment in the portuguese parliament, the government may be being overthrown. if the government falls, it will be because of the political instability caused by the opposition parties, which have no longer supported an austerity package. it's the fourth package, it's true, in a few months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the budgetary execution of portugal for january and february was in surplus, with expenditure reduced by 3% and revenue increased by 11%. the political forces that created this political crisis by rejecting this austerity programme that was put forward by the government and supported by the european commission, the council and the european central bank, can be very pleased with that, but they can only be lightly pleased with the situation because for a country in the euro zone with debt problems, that is terrible. it is bad for the country, it is unfair to the citizens and it is yet another blow to the sustainability of the great project that is the single currency. we are not in a eurozone crisis, we are in the middle of the great eurozone crisis. and i would like to ask my colleagues: what is the alternative? all member states have to present their austerity plan by april. does portugal need more austerity measures to reduce the deficit and public debt? reduce the deficit in 2012 and 2013 to 3% and 2% respectively? they refused to negotiate, but they presented no alternatives. rejection is not the answer, it's the problem. it's to force the portuguese to make more sacrifices.
mr president, the path that the european union's leaders are following is unacceptable, namely the intensification of the exploitation of workers, new anti-social measures that exacerbate inequalities, increase unemployment, precarious employment, poverty and social exclusion, all in the service of the european union's economic and financial groups whose profits are constantly increasing. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. that is why the workers and the people are opposing such measures, as happened last saturday in portugal, at the demonstration in which more than 300,000 people took part, and today in the portuguese parliament, where the majority of members will certainly do the same to the fourth austerity package. but we also want to say no here, mr president, to the bombing of libya by the international forces, just as we say no to the repression of the people who are fighting in all the countries of the region, including libya, bahrain and yemen.
mr president, first of all i would like to draw attention to the value which the epp and, in particular, the portuguese epp members attach to the next council, to the solution which has been found, which is frankly better than what was expected at the time, and in particular to the work of mr brok and mr gualtieri, who prepared the opinion for parliament, together with the commission's positions, which bring the fund closer to what is clearly the community solution and further away from what would be the intergovernmental solution. and then i would like to say to all the members, at a time when portugal is experiencing a political crisis, that the psd, the epp party, is prepared to govern after the elections. and to govern the country according to the criteria which are the criteria for the eurozone, fulfilling all the goals that are set and, more than that, doing what over 13 years, i repeat 13 years, the socialist party has been unable to do. the socialist government has failed miserably. everything that is happening in portugal was foreseen by the psd in the 2009 elections. i was in that campaign, and we announced that this was going to happen. we are therefore here to say that we give all the guarantees to the european union and, in particular, to the partners in the euro zone, that they will meet all the criteria that will be demanding and that will require sacrifices on the part of the portuguese. but that, once and for all, there will be someone credible and not a government like the current portuguese government, which had to present four stability and growth programmes and which is constantly looking for new solutions without being able to give a credible answer to the markets, to give a response that serves the interests of the portuguese and the interests of europe. the president agreed to answer a question on a blue card (rule 149 (8))
mr president, i just wanted to ask mr paulo rangel if he does not think that it is childish, frivolous, that portugal will pay too much, that it will require too many sacrifices from the portuguese, that it will provoke a political crisis, when he says here that the next government will then introduce the same austerity measures or will commit itself to meeting the targets that have been negotiated with brussels? that's what i'd like you to answer. is it not just the lust for power that drives them to this attitude?
mr president, i will be glad to answer, although i do not want to turn a debate in the european parliament into a debate on portuguese policy. moreover, if mrs edite estrela wants to debate portuguese politics, she has a simple solution: we must have elections, she must run for the portuguese parliament and she will have the opportunity, in the opposition, to debate with the psd government the policies she wants for portugal. i say only this: we can no longer tolerate a government that has failed four times in two years. it is impossible, it is unsustainable, it is not credible for the markets, there are no more solutions with the socialist government. the president agreed to answer a question on a blue card (rule 149 (8))
mr president, the socialist party has responsibly supported all the austerity packages, as many parties in other countries of the union have not done. when the government has failed blatantly - and it has no excuse, it is not able to present a single result after two years - and the markets continue in the situation they are in, the social democratic party has no choice but to be on the side of the solution. the solution is: new elections, new government, new credibility for portugal and also for europe and the eurozone.
in writing. this european council is taking place in a context which is specific to portugal. in the face of the path being followed by the masters of this eu and the implementation at national level of the recipes dictated by them - of intensifying recessionary policies, of increasing the exploitation of workers, of new anti-social measures that aggravate inequalities, increase unemployment, precarious employment, poverty and social exclusion - the country is seeing the economic and social crisis deepen to unprecedented levels. it is against this backdrop that the government, with the pressure and applause of the eu, is presenting a new package of so-called austerity measures - the fourth. the intention of the eu's power directory is to impose a new, neo-colonial garrote on the countries with the weakest economies, attacking their sovereignty, with the conditionality provided for in the application of the european stability mechanism. all this is done under the pretext of maintaining the privileges enjoyed by the major economic and financial groups (especially those of the countries in the directory), for which various eu instruments such as the sgp, economic and monetary union and the euro are used. the necessary response to this was given by the portuguese workers in struggle, last saturday in portugal, in a great national demonstration.
mr president, we express our full solidarity with the japanese people and we join in our condolences to the victims of the catastrophe that has struck that country. we know that this disaster has triggered serious accidents at the fukushima nuclear power station, the consequences of which cannot yet be fully assessed. the accidents in the reactors of this plant were the result of a combination of factors which is highly improbable, it is true, but which has been verified and, to that extent, is potentially repeatable in other nuclear power stations. the lessons to be drawn from what is happening in fukushima are therefore important. redundancies in the safety systems of power stations, particularly in the supply of cooling systems, must be reviewed and, if necessary, adapted without delay. the location of existing nuclear power stations needs to be reassessed, particularly in view of the risk of earthquakes and tsunamis. but there is also a need to engage in a broad debate in society on the energy question, on present and future needs and how they should be met, addressing in a lucid, informed way the risks, impacts, potentials and limitations of the various energy sources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the refugees are not forced to return to their homes. unhcr, the united nations high commissioner for refugees, has a number for this population: 200,000 refugees a year. we know that half of that number is resettled by the united states and other actors, we know that europe does too little: 4,500 a year. we all agree, however, that the refugee problem is urgent and important. how important is it? the council itself has already answered this question. the swedish presidency spoke of resettling 100,000 a year and the belgian presidency, at the end of its own presidency (we have here prime minister yves leterme) said that refugees were the very image of the european union's raison d'être. i would like to say that, as for the hungarian presidency, for historical reasons refugees are important because it was in hungary in 1956 that the first concerted effort was made by the international community to resettle thousands of refugees. but how urgent is the refugee crisis? that is the question we are unfortunately forced to put to the council. how much priority does the council give to refugees? will they be urgent enough that it will finally be put, that it will finally be put a signature on a piece of paper? one year ago this parliament voted in favour of two reports, one of them a codecision on the european refugee fund. we united on what was important with a vast majority: went from the greek communists to the british conservatives. we did our homework. a year later we are still waiting for the council. the codecision procedure has become a codecision procedure. and this process of codecision would be ridiculous if it were not tragic for the lives of the people on the ground. the report we adopted included emergency measures to be applied in addition to the commission's annual priorities. we did it because we know that a humanitarian crisis could arise at any moment. it has now appeared in north africa, on our doorstep, and we do not have these emergency measures ready to be implemented. we do not have them because the council has unfortunately not completed this codecision. in addition, we would have, from the day 1 when it was completed, in addition to these emergency procedures, extra money for countries that want to start resettling, clear categories of priorities to be used by the member states. we would also have everything we put in the owninitiative report: quality, speed and the creation of a resettlement unit at easo. the council, you, and i conclude, mr president, you are co-legislators. it is not for us to tell the council how to legislate, but this veto from the drawer serves no one, much less the credibility of the institutions. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i was very pleased to hear the minister stress the importance of the refugees and the resettlement programme. the data from the united nations high commissioner is clear, it tells us about millions of refugees and more than 200,000 people who need resettlement programs every year. there is therefore a humanitarian emergency in the world, in the world around us - it is no longer just afghanistan, somalia, the congo, we are now faced with egypt, libya and many other countries - but beyond the humanitarian emergency, as mr papanikolaou reminded us, there is also the circumstance of having budgetary resources that we are not spending because these programmes are not approved. i am glad to hear the minister say that we are not going to stop this process because of legal issues. but the truth is that this process is stalled, largely for legal reasons. we are in a codecision process and we have not seen the council disagree with parliament's solutions. mr rui tavares has made an excellent report and we do not see any proposals from the council to contradict the model resettlement programme that is being drawn up. what we are seeing is the council being limited by legal issues and that cannot happen. the question that mr rui tavares raised at the beginning of this debate, namely what is the priority and whether or not the issue of the resettlement of refugees is important to the presidency and to the council, is very important. and the feeling we get is that this, in fact, is not important. you will have a council meeting tomorrow and then, as we have already heard, the council's draft conclusions, the draft which, on the question of immigration flows, is postponed until the july council. the recommendation we would like to see made is this: the european parliament does not ask the council to postpone, the european parliament asks the council to decide.
mr president, we are deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation of refugees, of those fleeing war, armed conflict, hunger, exploitation, poverty, and of women and children who are victims of human trafficking. solidarity with these people is a central issue that requires concrete measures, whether to support refugees or to support countries that are most in need because of their geographical proximity. the recent conflicts in the countries of north africa, which have added to the wars in the middle east, have aggravated an already very difficult situation. we must therefore take effective and urgent measures to resettle refugees, to welcome them with the dignity they deserve. we cannot continue to wait for decisions that are delayed while thousands of people are knocking at our door every day and are not getting the answer to which they are entitled.
the president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i'm trying to answer the main questions in a more objective way. first, let's look at the record of the european union, so there's been some talk here that we're lagging behind the generosity of the united states and other countries. i don't think that's the case. indeed, the total number of refugees resettled by the eu on an annual basis is smaller than the similar numbers in the us, canada, or australia. and while the council fully recognises that resettlement remains a tool for a lasting settlement of the refugee situation, it is worth bearing in mind that the annual number of spontaneous asylum applications submitted to the eu far exceeds that in many other regions of the world. according to statistics released by the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the eu-27 received 1150980 asylum seekers between 2005 and 2009. while for canada and the us, the number is 391090. so i think these numbers speak for themselves. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. there is no debate between us about how to proceed, the matter is extremely urgent. i said that in january, when the refugee situation in north africa was not so acute. so we have concrete plans already, and we're trying to accelerate that work. the belgian presidency, in order to meet the 2012 deadline, proposed a strategy to focus on four priority legislation. you all know this, the recognition directive, the dublin regulation, the eurodac regulation and the long-term residence directive. discussions continued on the two most labour-intensive directives, the procedures and the reception conditions directives. this strategy has received broad support in the council, parliament and the commission and has produced tangible results. the long-term resident directive has been agreed by parliament and the council and will be formally adopted by the council in a few weeks' time. in the case of the qualification directive, the hungarian presidency was given the mandate to start the informal trialogist. so our aim is to get this started as soon as possible and we ask the european parliament to be our partner in this. as regards the dublin and eurodac regulations, considerable progress was made within the council and only a few highly political issues remained unresolved. as regards the directive on procedures and conditions for admission, the commission announced its intention to submit a new proposal. the european parliament concluded its first reading of the reception conditions directive in the previous cycle and the libe committee is currently examining the commission's proposal to amend the procedures directive. so both the european parliament and the council are now clarifying their positions. this will allow the two legislators to start discussions on the recognition directive and on the dublin and eurodac agendas. as soon as the commission has submitted its proposals for a directive on procedures and a directive on reception conditions, work on these two pieces of legislation can continue. in connection with north africa, i mentioned the presidency's visits to the border area because of the situation. at the iom, the home affairs and justice council, on 11 april, we will assess the migration situation. but i'll point out, there were those who criticized it, that the draft conclusions of the current european council also contain a reference to the importance of the refugee situation. if we deem it necessary, we will assess the progress of the work. we are ready to hold an extraordinary meeting of the home affairs and justice council during the hungarian presidency. so we're trying to speed up the legislative process. we encourage you to do so, and the european commission to do so. many people have mentioned this problem, including mr coelho, which is related to the amendment of the asylum decision. i told you in my introduction that we have an agreement on the political content and we are now prisoners of a legal issue. as in the case of several issues, from novel food to the various external instruments in the fields of external affairs and finance, the council and parliament are discussing whether to resolve the issue by means of an implementing or delegating act. i want to tell you that this is a very important question. this is a legal procedure that should be followed by a citizen, a citizen of the union, who understands what it is to be an implementing or delegating act. our job is to find solutions to the burning questions, no matter what the legal formula. i will do my utmost to respect the lisbon treaty in all my actions. the treaty does not clearly define the boundaries between the various acts. we think it's an executive order, so we should have an executive order to deal with this. let's talk about it, get it right. we just really want to avoid becoming prisoners of legal issues. at the june european council, our original plan was to address refugee issues, and this has now become even more important. but i think that if we can fill the council meetings with the right content, and we have a duty to do so, then the european council will be able to take decisions of greater significance than we would have otherwise hoped, say, even a month or two ago. i also got a question about what would happen if the refugees were to come here. i don't think we need to fantasize right now. we have done a lot of work in the past, in the various council formations, on the refugee issue. the commission is doing a fantastic job in the humanitarian field, as are the egyptian and tunisian authorities and the local population, and the international refugee organisations. everyone, i see you've got the situation under control. the repatriation, which is the most pressing, is underway. that doesn't mean that, for example, these relocations, these are not relevant. however, despite the fact that we have a legal problem which we have not yet been able to resolve - voluntarily, anyone can do this - i now know that italy has already voluntarily relocated 125 people, so the issue is partly resolved thanks to the honourable member states. that doesn't mean we don't need legislation. yes, it is. let's try to reach an agreement. thank you for your attention. and as the hungarian presidency announced at the time that it would be a presidency that could prove that it had a heart, as we express it by focusing on the roma strategy, i want to assure you that this is also true in the area of asylum. thank you very much.
author. − mr president, my comment is methodological in nature. the council has told us that they agree with everything except for article 290, so after coordinating with our shadow rapporteurs, and as rapporteur for resettlement, i would like to make two comments on methodology. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr schwab on the negotiating persistence that has led to this important commitment and also on the commitment of all those who have collaborated with him on this report. we want to ensure not only a high level of protection for european consumers, but also that european companies, regardless of their size, can supply goods and services to consumers in the 27 member states without unnecessary legal obstacles. this new directive will put an end to the legislative fragmentation which has been hampering the participation of our companies in the crossborder market and will give a major boost to the internal market. i would stress the new provisions on consumer information, which require that this information be clear, intelligible and provided in a timely manner. it is also important that the burden of proof of compliance with the information requirements is now on the trader. as regards distance contracts, in particular contracts concluded by telephone or the internet, the rules for such contracts should be defined and the consumer protected by simple and effective mechanisms. we are confident that, at the end of the institutional negotiations, the new directive will help to make the european union more competitive and dynamic as is necessary in a global economy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, if we are discussing here the extension of the current scheme of generalised trade preferences, gsp, it is because the commission has failed to fulfil its obligation to submit in due time the promised proposal for a substantive revision of this scheme. the temporary rollover of the current regulation is therefore necessary to maintain the trade benefits enjoyed by developing countries, especially the poorest, in accessing the european market. the adoption of this proposal without further delay is essential if the countries benefiting from the preferential system are to continue to benefit from it and for economic operators who will thus be able to develop their trade relations with the necessary predictability and legal certainty. for this reason, i have argued, as chairman of the committee and as shadow, that the rollover should be a pure and simple rollover, even renouncing the european parliament's ad hoc adaptation of this regulation to the new regime of implementing acts of the commission, trusting us that this alignment will be made in the near future through the so-called omnibus regulations. i would like to stress that, in this understanding, the decision of the rapporteur, the shadows and the other members of the committee weighed on the commitment of the european commission, reiterated here today by commissioner de gucht, and i sincerely thank him for his care, to ensure that the european parliament is henceforth timely and fully informed of all relevant acts concerning the application of this regulation, in line with what is now provided for in the treaty of lisbon on parliament's powers in the field of the common commercial policy. a final word of thanks to the rapporteur, to the commission and to the council for this commitment which allows parliament to take account of the european interest and of those who trust us.
mr president, given that the current scheme of the generalized system of preferences expires at the end of this year, it is important, as has already been said, that the commission submit its new proposal for a global revision of the system in good time. we are now only dealing with the extension necessary to ensure legal certainty and to guarantee mutual interests. but the importance of this issue for developing countries and for the member states of the european union, especially those with weaker economies whose industrial, agricultural or social interests are not always safeguarded in the international trade agreements which the european commission is promoting, requires a thorough debate to take account of all the aspects, all the consequences and all the possible impacts of this system in a future regulation whose proposal must reach parliament as soon as possible.
mr president, the policies of the european union are putting social and labour rights in question, which is provoking protests and struggles. that is what happened last weekend in portugal. about 300,000 workers joined the demonstration organized by the cgtp. it was a sea of people, of indignation and revolt that flooded the streets of lisbon, coming from the most diverse parts of portugal. it was a national response of organized struggle which demonstrates that workers, women, young people and pensioners are tired of being victims of policies dictated by the interests of the large national and european economic and financial groups. they are determined to fight for another policy where the crisis is not a pretext for more unemployment, more precarious work, more wage freezes and reforms or new cuts in low incomes and social supports, price increases or taxes for those who live on the income of their work. it was a no to the pecs and the capitalist policies that the european union and governments have promoted without ever pinching capital, facilitating the increase of earnings and profits. it is a fight that counts on our combative and committed solidarity.
madam president, these agreements are part of the process of liberalization under way in the air transport sector. they have, moreover, a clear ideological mark. the aim is to make state intervention and regulation unfeasible in this strategic sector too, thus opening the door to the monopolistic concentration which always, but always, results from the sacrosanct free competition. in the name of facilitating business opportunities in international air transport, the interest of the multinational companies in the sector is being promoted at the expense of national companies and their strategic interests, including those which, as in portugal with tap, are publicly owned. with this, they lose the workers and they lose the passengers as well. they lose workers because liberalization facilitates dumping by multinationals, forcing precarious employment by levelling working conditions below par. passengers also lose out, among other things, because aviation safety will also tend to be left to the taste of cost/benefit weights by companies. it's not news. the reality in other sectors, such as rail transport, where liberalization has advanced, clearly demonstrates the consequences of applying the dogmas of the free market in practice.
in writing. other the european union has in the recent past negotiated and concluded several agreements with other states in the field of air transport. the court of justice held that the traditional designation clauses in existing bilateral agreements infringed european law by discriminating against eu air carriers established in one member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. since such agreements violate the principle of freedom of establishment, as laid down in article 49 tfeu, the european commission has initiated and has been developing a practice of negotiating and concluding agreements between the european union, on the one hand, and third states, on the other, in the field of air transport. the main elements of these agreements are safety concerns, passenger rights, mutual recognition of certificates and regulatory cooperation. in this context, i would like to recall the limited role that parliament has in these matters. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, its opinion is binding, but only on the final text already signed, and this house cannot make suggestions or amendments to its content.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. they are telling us that austerity policies in europe are killing the economy and the privileges and living conditions of europeans. we are being told that the model of economic coordination being imposed is based on fines and sanctions and that it is no guarantee, quite the contrary, of sustainable growth and job creation. they are telling us that the pact for the euro, which is being approved today by the governments, is a pact against wages and pensions. it is a pact that continues to make the working people pay for a crisis that was not created by the working people. i think we should listen to this protest because it raises a central question from the point of view of the european budget: the place of public investment in the whole discussion of economic policies. we have heard the conservatives say that what we need is a zero budget, zero increase. we have heard from several governments that in the name of austerity policies we need a zero-increase european budget. that's the wrong answer, and that's the big discussion we're having here today. it is the wrong answer for a very simple reason: it is not possible to have ever stronger national austerity policies and at the same time say that because of these austerity policies we need ever weaker european budgets. inevitably, this reasoning has only one consequence: less public investment at both national and european level. and therefore more unemployment, more social regression. this is the fundamental discussion we have in the discussion for the 2012 budget. it is an argument against those who think that the crisis can be solved by accentuating inequality and by turning the recession itself into a policy. that's what my group is against. we shall abstain on this report because it is full of good intentions, but it does not clearly address the challenge which the world of work demands of us.
madam president, we have intervened in this debate to show that there is an alternative to the consensus between the right and the social democrats which has brought us to this crisis. i agree that there is no way out of the crisis. this alternative, which is both possible and necessary, also involves a fundamental change in the community's budgetary policies, which will involve a re-examination of the resources and the objectives they serve. at a time when inequalities between member states are widening, the community budget must be at the service of real convergence, it must promote the full exploitation of the endogenous potential of each country, the creation of jobs with rights, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, and the preservation of the environment. it must be an instrument for genuine economic and social cohesion. we reject a budget that serves the commodification of growing aspects of social life, the liberalization of many sectors of economic activity, and the precariousness of employment, as called for in the eu 2020 strategy. this path will accentuate the economic, social, regional and national divisions and disparities that already exist and will foster structural unemployment. we therefore propose a new european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development, backed up by a set of new economic, social and environmental policies, supported by the community budget, as we have made clear in the set of amendments we have proposed to this report. the community budget must also be at the service of a genuine policy of development aid, cooperation and peace, and not at the service of external interventionism, interference, militarism and war, areas which have been increasingly priced out of the community budget. we therefore stress the urgency of a different direction for europe, also expressed in the budgetary options.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs balzani on her work, which does not mean that i do not want to make some comments here. i think that the general lines now adopted are indeed too general. i consider these guidelines to be more a resolution for a european union 2020 strategy than guidelines for 2012. in 2011, we had the youth priority, a priority that is lost in 2012 with these general lines. we're still on time. the word youth does not appear once in these outlines. secondly, the fixation on the european union 2020 strategy, which i advocate, leads to forgetting, for example, cohesion policy. there is also no single word for cohesion policy. cohesion policy which is extremely important and which cannot be an adaptation measure, cannot be a suffering measure or a suffering policy, which is to withdraw money to be put, for example, in the european union 2020 strategy. there is therefore also no single word for cohesion policy, which we consider extremely important. i think we have time to correct this discrepancy, i would call it that, i think we have time to solve these two problems.
in writing. unfortunately, this report advocates 'a budget for 2012 under the auspices of strengthened european economic governance, the european semester mechanism and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy'. in other words, they want a budget that supports the deepening of neoliberalism, militarism and federalism in the eu, with the adoption of profoundly anti-social and anti-democratic measures, with the tightening of the stability pact, the application of brutal fines to the states and the permanent monitoring of all national macroeconomic activity. it is also a proposal to obtain a budget that facilitates liberalization, job insecurity, the attack on rights and public services. we therefore propose an important set of amendments, which are not only intended to denounce this path, but also to outline the possible and necessary alternative. these are essential proposals to improve the situation of unemployment, poverty and inequalities which exist and are deepening with the capitalism of which the european union is an instrument. to face the economic and social crisis, rejecting the neoliberal way, the so-called economic governance and the strengthening of militarism, another vision of the community budget was required.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing first of all that we must help moldova to recover economically and taking into account that some 40% of its economy depends on agriculture. i fully agree with the measures proposed by the rapporteur to provide a more comprehensive and attractive agreement for the economic recovery of this partner country of the european union.
in writing. - i abstained from the vote on the proposal introducing autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova because i considered that its current wording does not take due account of the provisions necessary for the protection of community geographical indications (gi) and, in particular, the gi for port wines.
in writing. - i want to express my support for moldova's economic recovery and provide a positive perspective to people working in the wine industry in the country. i agree to increase the duty-free tariff quota for wine for 2011 from 120 000 hectolitres to 180 000 hectolitres and from 2013 onwards to 240 000 hectolitres per year. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which in no way destabilises the eu wine industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european commission's proposal, amending the regulation currently in force, could help moldova's economic recovery and provide a positive outlook for people working in the wine industry in the country, without harming the interests of european producers.
in writing. − the wine sector in moldova is going through a period of crisis, exacerbated by the reduction in exports, which is adversely affecting the country's economic recovery and the reforms that will allow it to more realistically aspire to integration into the european union. the increase in the duty-free tariff quota, in particular for moldovan wine, could help to alleviate the pressure on the sector. however, despite this european willingness to assist moldova, the union and the member states should seek to ensure that wine from other states has lower quality standards than those required for wines from the union.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing eu-wide rules on the protection of personal data to include the protection of the right to privacy and the right to privacy of the data subject. the republic of moldova, despite the ongoing efforts of its people and the reforms implemented by the government, is experiencing a difficult situation due to the crisis faced by the country's most productive wine sector, which accounts for 40% of the moldovan economy and employs more than a quarter of the working population. it is therefore urgent to support moldova's economic recovery and to give a positive signal of eu solidarity towards a population that lives mostly in rural areas. i therefore welcome and vote in favour of this draft legislative resolution, which extends council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 until 31 december 2015 and i hope that before that date a deep and comprehensive free trade area will be established between the european union and the republic of moldova.
in writing. the report approves a commission proposal authorising the increase of the duty-free tariff quota for wine from moldova. the commission proposes to increase the quota from 100 000 to 150 000 hectolitres in 2011, from 120 000 to 180 000 hectolitres in 2012 and from 2013 onwards to 240 000 hectolitres per year. according to the commission, the proposed increases are based on the fact that moldova has systematically exhausted the existing quota and take into account 'the potential of the sector to improve its market niches in the eu'. although it is claimed that the proposed level of increase does not destabilise the eu wine industry, we consider that there are still some doubts as to whether this is indeed the case, which is why we abstain. the crisis facing many producers, especially small and mediumsized producers, in countries such as portugal, with the dramatic fall in production prices and the incessant increase in the costs of production factors, weighs heavily in this balance. difficulties aggravated by the changes introduced by the reform of the wine cmo and the planned end of production rights. this reform has benefited the large wine industry, as well as some importers... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. although the community executive says that the level of increase does not destabilise the eu wine industry, in doubt, and in defence of the interests of portuguese agriculture, we abstained from voting. moldova has requested the european commission to increase the duty-free tariff quota for wine under the autonomous trade preferences granted to the country in a 2008 regulation. in order to support moldova's economic recovery and provide a positive outlook for those working in the wine industry in the country (a quarter of the working population), they propose to increase the duty-free tariff quota for wine from 100 000 to 150 000 hectolitres in 2011; from 120 000 to 180 000 hectolitres in 2012; and from 2013 onwards to 240 000 hectolitres per year. the commission states the following: 'as overall moldovan imports represent only 0.04% of all eu imports, further market opening should not create any negative effects for the eu. at present, about 90% of all imports from moldova... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − moldova has been making efforts over the past few years to increasingly converge with european benchmarks of freedom, democracy and good governance. the efforts outlined here have been consistent and have demonstrated that moldova is concerned about continuing its path towards possible enlargement. thus, in order to support the economic recovery of moldova and to provide a positive outlook for the people working in the wine industry in the country (a quarter of the working population), it is proposed to increase the duty-free tariff quota for wine from 100000 hectolitres (hl) in 2011 to 150000 hl in 2012, from 120000 hl to 180000 hl and from 2013 onwards to 240000 hl per year. the amendments to this regulation are designed to do just that and can help the moldovan economy and its development.
in writing. - as i have already had the opportunity to mention earlier, it is essential for the eu to have a coherent and effective european neighbourhood policy. as part of that neighbourhood policy, regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introduces a specific autonomous trade preference regime for the republic of moldova, under which free access to the eu market is granted to all products originating in moldova, with the exception of certain agricultural products listed in its annex, for which limited concessions have been granted, either in the form of exemption from customs duties within the limits of tariff quotas or in the form of reduction of customs duties. one of the exceptions to free movement concerns the wine sector, and a tariff quota has been established which, according to the available data, has been fully used months before the end of the year. as the moldovan economy is being strongly affected by the negative effects of the global financial and economic crises and as the wine sector employs some 300 000 workers, this report, which i voted for, proposes to increase the current tariff quota for wine in order to support moldova's efforts and to provide an attractive and reliable market for its wine exports, which, incidentally, do not compete with portuguese production.
in writing. − in order to support moldova's economic recovery efforts and to encourage the momentum towards convergence with eu legislation and standards, the commission has put forward a proposal to increase the tariff quota for moldovan wine. the commission believes that this measure will not have a negative impact on the european wine industry, which is why i have supported the granting of this aid to moldova.
in writing. − i approve this report given the changes that have been introduced to extend the validity of the current system - generalised system of preferences (gsp) - until december 2013, taking into account the uncertainties as to the time needed to complete the current legislative process. the adoption of this report thus avoids a break in the legal coverage of the gsp and avoids disparities in treatment between nations.
in writing. the current regulation establishing the generalised system of preferences (gsp) expires at the end of this year. however, as the european commission is still awaiting the completion of a study on the subject in order to submit a new proposal for the gsp, in order to avoid a legal vacuum, it was decided to extend the current regulation and its current provisions for another two years. however, the commission should present a legislative initiative on this very soon, as there is an urgent need to review the current system and make it more effective. i therefore subscribe to the main points, which the rapporteur has made, that need to be reviewed in this legislative proposal to be put forward by the commission. these are an effective system which better meets the interests of the beneficiary countries and economic operators, rules which provide for a reform process in which the participation of the beneficiaries is guaranteed and also that the democratic control task which parliament is called upon to perform is ensured.
in writing. the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) recommended in 1968 the creation of a generalised system of preferences (gsp) with the aim of the more developed countries supporting the developing countries by granting trade facilities. in 1971 the european community pioneered the implementation of a gsp which has become one of the main methods of cooperation with developing countries in international trade to combat poverty. the current regulation needs updating, due to its obsolescence and lack of a framework in the lisbon treaty, and substantial reform. although this proposal is not yet a new regulation (which needs to be drawn up) and given the urgency of its adoption, i agree with the report under discussion and hope that the commission will come forward as soon as possible with a new proposal so that the eu can continue to support developing countries.
in writing. − the generalised system of preferences is a trade mechanism through which the eu grants developing countries non-reciprocal preferential access to its market through tariff reductions. the mechanism is defined as a development aid instrument and is not without contradictions, in particular between some of its declared aims and the practical results achieved. indeed, many developing countries have been increasing their economic dependence and shaping their economies on a model of low diversification based on a narrow range of export products, to the detriment of the development of their internal market. an international division of labour has been consolidated, which is unfavourable to these countries, and the big multinationals, some of them european, are often the ones who benefit most from this system. a comprehensive review of this mechanism is therefore required, accompanied by an in-depth debate on its various aspects and complexities and on its impacts, not only in developing countries but also in eu member states, especially the most fragile ones. however, given the delay in the commission's submission of a new proposal for a regulation, which makes it impossible for it to enter into force immediately after the expiry of the current regulation, an extension of the current regulation is necessary. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the current gsp expires at the end of this year, so at this stage it is only a matter of voting on the extension needed to ensure legal certainty and to guarantee the mutual interests of the 150 or so countries involved. however, the importance of this subject, both for developing countries and for the member states of the european union with weaker economies whose industrial, agricultural or social interests are not always safeguarded in the international trade agreements promoted by the european commission, requires that a thorough debate be held on the new regulation, the proposal for which should be sent as soon as possible by the european commission, so that the various aspects and the whole complexity of the gsp can be properly analysed, as well as its impact on the various areas and countries.
in writing. the current regulation on generalised tariff preferences expires at the end of this year. in the absence of a new regulation in due time, due to the delay in the delivery of the study requested by the commission, we are obliged to extend the current regulation for another two years. however, given the importance of this regulation for the regulation of trade between developing countries and the eu, it is necessary for the commission to present a new updated version of it quickly.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 732/2008 establishes a scheme of generalised preferences (gsp) which is valid until 31 december 2011. the gsp has been one of the eu's main trade and development policy instruments to help developing countries reduce poverty by generating revenues through international trade. the ep consultation process on the last gsp was very limited and did not allow for a broad negotiation. parliament has pointed out in due course that it will need more time in the future to carry out its duties. on 26 may 2010, the commission, citing a lack of time to present a new regulation, only proposed to extend the validity of the current regulation. this proposal for an extension did not take into account the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the ep noted this shortcoming and proposed amendments to the commission proposal to ensure that the rights and powers which the ep acquired under the lisbon treaty are respected. in this connection, i voted in favour of this report, which approves the extension of the regulation and which amends the elements necessary to respect the new powers acquired by the ep after the treaty of lisbon, in particular to ensure the new powers on delegated acts.
in writing. since 1971, the european union has been granting trade preferences to developing countries under its generalised system of preferences (gsp). the gsp is implemented through successive regulations applying a system of generalised tariff preferences for a period, generally three years at a time. the current system was established by regulation (ec) no 732/2008 and applies until 31 december 2011 and its replacement by a new regulation is being prepared. the period of application of regulation (ec) no 732/2008 is insufficient to allow for the preparation of a commission proposal and the subsequent adoption of a new regulation by the ordinary legislative procedure and, therefore, in order to ensure the continuity of the system, it is necessary to extend the period of application of that regulation until 31 december 2013. i voted in favour, in the expectation that the commission will soon present a new proposal which will help to make the gsp a clearer, more transparent and more effective system.
in writing. - i approve this report on the grounds, first, that the combined airspace of the us and the eu represents 60% of world air traffic and that the current bilateral agreements between the member states and the us are not in line with reality. opening up airspace between the us and the eu on a non-discriminatory basis offers better services for passenger and cargo transport, economic benefits and, above all, creates jobs. it is also beneficial in view of the fact that a convergence regulation can promote free competition, particularly with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental parameters.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european union and the united states have declared their intention to work together to reduce the impact of international aviation on the environment. i welcome the initiatives to reduce noise, reduce the impact of aviation on air quality and the global climate, foster the development of environmental aviation technology, and innovate in air traffic management and the sustainable development of alternative aviation fuels.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. this market opening could contribute to improving the services provided to passengers, both in terms of variety and cost, and provide important economic benefits.
in writing. − although the single transatlantic market in air transport has not yet been achieved, the amendment to the air transport agreement between the united states and the european union and its member states contains important improvements over its previous version, in particular in terms of the environment and safety. i hope that the progress made will allow further efforts to be made to reduce the obstacles to the establishment of this market, particularly in terms of interoperability and compatibility of systems, and the imbalance in competition laws which results in the ownership and control of airlines by american companies, in particular the fly america act.
in writing. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june on the situation in the middle east, calls on the eu to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is resolved as soon as possible. the ideal agreement would be one which proposed a complete opening up of the aviation market without any restrictions on either side. however, this objective has not yet been achieved. so, taking into account the regulatory changes in the lisbon treaty and considering not only the size of the eu and us aviation markets (60% of world air traffic), but also the need to respect the privacy of european and american citizens and the existence of standards to ensure respect for passenger rights, i welcome this agreement which represents a significant step forward from the status quo. but it is important to stress the need for the european parliament and the united states congress to continue to dialogue on those matters which are outside this agreement.
in writing. the objectives of this agreement are clearly stated by the rapporteur: 'opening up the market', i.e. deepening the ongoing liberalisation in this sector, 'creating a single market for air transport'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the promises of benefits for workers and passengers that always accompany these liberalization processes are as old and worn as they are false, as the good reality shows in cases where liberalization has been carried forward, whether in this or other sectors. these promises are now being supplemented by propaganda on the subject of 'environmental cooperation', a subject which can and must certainly be dealt with, but not in this context. even here, it is clear what the intention is: to promote the compatibility and interaction of emission trading schemes. in the name of free competition, which justifies everything and which overrides everything, state intervention is severely limited in defending the interests of national airlines and, consequently, in defending national strategic interests in various areas, such as linking up with immigrant communities.
in writing. these agreements are another part of the process of liberalization under way in the air transport sector, which makes it difficult for the state to intervene and regulate in this strategic sector, opening the door to monopolistic concentration which always results from the sacrosanct free competition, defended at all costs. in the name of facilitating business opportunities in international air transport, the interest of the multinational companies in the sector is being promoted at the expense of national companies and their strategic interests, including those which, as in portugal with tap, are publicly owned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the eu-us air transport agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as by all the bodies concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. this agreement is therefore an important step towards opening the market to eu and us airlines without any discrimination. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amendment to the eu-us air transport agreement. a possible suspension would result in passengers and union airlines losing significantly the advantages they have been enjoying since march 2008. i agree with the rapporteur's analysis that this agreement is not perfect. however, it has the merit of presenting important elements which make it possible to advance this process and avoid the risk of triggering the suspension clause in the absence of an agreement of this nature. the present agreement (second phase agreement) does not fulfil the ultimate objective of full market opening without restrictions on both sides, but contains a number of incentives to encourage reform. in particular, when the us amends its legislation to allow eu investors to hold a majority of shares in us airlines, the eu will also allow this. in any case, this process will not be peaceful and any decision on it will depend on the follow-up and the final proposal that is reached, in the circumstances that are then decisive for ensuring the best air transport and the success of european airlines.
in writing. − while the ultimate objective of a full opening of the transatlantic air market has not been achieved, this second phase agreement between the eu and the us represents an important step forward in this direction, providing new commercial opportunities for european airlines and significant benefits for passengers and cargo operators, both in terms of enhanced service provision and cost reductions. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol to amend the eu-us air transport agreement, and i hope that negotiations will continue with a view to further liberalising traffic rights, strengthening cooperation in the various areas and abolishing the regulatory restrictions in force in the us on the ownership and control of us airlines by non-nationals.
in writing. - the european parliament has today approved a protocol amending the existing air transport agreement between the european union and the united states, with my vote in favour. the proposal is a significant step forward in improving transatlantic relations in the field of aviation. the eu and us aviation markets together account for around 60% of world air traffic. opening up markets to airlines will provide improved services to passengers and cargo operators and will bring major economic and job creation benefits. however, the agreement should not be considered as the end of the process. the agreement in question, known as the second phase, does not meet the ultimate objective of a complete opening of the market without restrictions on both sides. in addition, it is extremely important to have consistent standards on passenger rights and better policy coordination in this area. finally, it should also be stressed that issues such as further liberalisation of traffic rights, increased opportunities for foreign investment and the effect of environmental measures on traffic rights should be taken into account in a future phase of negotiations.
in writing. - i welcome this report, firstly because it is a substantial improvement on the current bilateral agreements between the member states and canada, which are themselves quite restrictive, and secondly because of the significant improvement it provides in terms of services, air links between the two markets and the consequent economic, environmental, safety, passenger transport, competition and legal benefits, among others.
in writing. − this agreement, which will allow european airlines to establish direct flights to canada from anywhere in europe and to operate these routes in code-sharing, has been described as the most ambitious air transport agreement concluded by the european union. it seeks to eliminate provisions in previous bilateral agreements which infringe community law and call into question equal treatment between companies owned by nationals of different member states. i hope that the european union-canada relations can intensify and that we can move ever closer and better towards an airspace with fewer barriers between states.
in writing. − this recommendation concerns the proposal for a decision of the council and the representatives of the member states, meeting within the council, on the conclusion of an air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and canada, of the other part. economic and political relations between the european union and canada have a long history and have given rise to several bilateral agreements in this field. however, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009, which obliges the european parliament to give its consent to air services agreements, the commission has started a negotiation process which is now coming to an end, establishing a set of traffic rights and investment possibilities, as well as cooperation in several areas: safety, protection of consumer rights, environment, air traffic management, social rights and fair competition. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal which is to make it easier for eu and canadian citizens to travel by removing a number of restrictions, allowing code sharing and fairer fares.
in writing. - as in the case of the agreement with the usa, the objectives are clear and stated: 'the creation of a single air transport market between the eu and canada', a market which in 2007 accounted for nine million passengers. the rapporteur said that the agreement was still 'more ambitious and more precise than the agreement concluded between the eu and the us', but she acknowledged that 'although the agreement is more ambitious than the one concluded with the us in terms of market access, it is less explicit when it comes to recognising the importance of the social dimension'. in other words, even the vain references to the impact of the agreement on employment, workers and working conditions have been forgotten in this case. the fact is that here too, the alleged 'absence of restrictions' on suppliers and services - in operations between countries, within each country and even beyond the eu and canadian markets, as provided for in the agreement - and the limitations on state intervention in airlines are helping to pave the way for monopolistic concentration in the sector... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − the objectives of this report are clear and stated: 'the creation of a single eu-canada air transport market', which in 2007 accounted for nine million passengers. the rapporteur said that the agreement was still 'more ambitious and more precise than the agreement concluded between the eu and the us', but she acknowledged that 'although the agreement is more ambitious than the one concluded with the us in terms of market access, it is less explicit when it comes to recognising the importance of the social dimension'. in other words, even the vain references to the impact of the agreement on employment, workers and working conditions have been forgotten in this case. even the claimed 'absence of restrictions' on suppliers and services - in operations between countries, within each country and even beyond the eu and canadian markets, as provided for in the agreement - and the limitations on state intervention in airlines are helping to pave the way for monopolistic concentration in the sector, to the detriment, contrary to what is announced, of workers and passengers. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − the eu-canada air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as by all the bodies concerned. the european parliament must approve any agreement to be concluded, and must therefore be aware of all the negotiations. this agreement is therefore an important step towards opening the market to eu and canadian airlines without any discrimination. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services. this is the most ambitious transport agreement ever concluded between two countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and canada, of the other part. it is a very ambitious agreement, providing for the gradual establishment of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as for broad cooperation in a number of areas, including safety, social issues, consumer protection, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. all airlines in the european union will be able to operate direct flights to canada from any european airport. the agreement removes all existing restrictions on routes, prices or the number of weekly flights between canada and the eu. i am pleased to vote for this agreement, given its ambitious nature and the possibilities it opens for closer relations between the azores and canada.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-canada air transport agreement, which will allow european airlines to establish direct flights to canada from anywhere in europe, creating new opportunities for european companies, in particular through the possibility of code-sharing agreements and the progressive liberalisation of rules on foreign investment, and significant economic benefits for consumers and job creation.
in writing. − this agreement, which can be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement concluded by the european union, will allow european airlines to operate direct flights to canada from any european airport, also introducing commercial mechanisms such as code-sharing. the agreement provides for the gradual establishment of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as for broad cooperation in a number of areas, including safety, social issues, consumer protection, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. in the document adopted today in plenary, the committee on transport, of which i am an alternate member, calls on the european commission to ensure that parliament is systematically informed and consulted on the activities of the joint committee set up and that it can monitor the different stages of market opening. i voted in favour of the recommendation and the agreement in question should serve as an example for other negotiations currently under way.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the fact that the continuation of the existing bilateral air agreements with vietnam is not in line with european legislation and the possible opportunities that may arise from this greater openness.
in writing. the commission has been mandated by the council to seek to replace certain provisions of the agreements on air services, after the court of justice had concluded that they were not in conformity with community law. the amendments provide for access to routes between the european union and vietnam to be granted to all european airlines and prohibit anti-competitive practices. these amendments ensure compliance with the principle of freedom of establishment and seek to ensure that nationals of the host member state are treated in the same way as nationals of that member state who are exempt. i hope that contacts and exchanges between the european union and vietnam will benefit from the mutual advantages offered to airlines and that this will lead to greater knowledge between peoples.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the government of the socialist republic of vietnam on certain aspects of air services. international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have been regulated by the establishment of bilateral agreements. however, a 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the european union found this situation to be unlawful as it violated article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has therefore launched a negotiation process to replace the 17 existing bilateral air services agreements between member states and vietnam. the process, which is now coming to an end, aims to allow all eu carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and vietnam, to enforce safety standards and to prevent anti-competitive practices.
in writing. − this agreement, like the others, serves the objectives of liberalisation in the air services sector on the grounds, as in the other cases, that the 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the eu considers that the existing bilateral agreements infringe community law. as in other situations of recent memory, once again the interpretation given by community law seems to give priority to freedom of competition over any other social and economic precepts. we express here the same reservations as we do about other agreements, their scope and the possible consequences they entail: in the present concrete framework of civil aviation activity, the creation of a level playing field for the various european airlines could help to facilitate the monopolistic concentration in the sector (a process already under way), with all the resulting damage to airline workers and passengers. if the market is to prevail in this area too, the ability of member states to defend their flag carriers is reduced.
in writing. - we are dealing with an agreement which serves the objectives of liberalising the air services sector on the grounds, as in the other cases, that the 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the eu considers that the existing bilateral agreements infringe community law. once again, the interpretation of community law seems to give priority to freedom of competition over any other social and economic precepts, even where there are already bilateral agreements between member states. we therefore express the same reservations as we do about other agreements, their scope and their possible consequences. in the present concrete context of civil aviation activity, this situation may contribute to facilitating monopolistic concentration in the sector (a process already under way) with all the resulting losses for airline workers and passengers. the ability of member states to defend their flag carriers must not be reduced.
in writing. − the eu/vietnam air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as by all the bodies concerned. the european parliament must approve any agreement to be concluded, and must therefore be aware of all the negotiations. this agreement is therefore an important step towards opening the market to eu and vietnamese airlines without any discrimination. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. − following the 2002 judgment of the court of justice of the european union which found that the traditional designation clauses included in bilateral air service agreements concluded by member states infringe union law, it became necessary to negotiate an agreement aimed at replacing certain provisions of the current 17 bilateral air service agreements between member states and vietnam. those clauses infringed article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states exercising their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. in this context, in order to avoid such discrimination between eu air carriers, the traditional designation clauses for air carriers of the member state party to the bilateral agreement are replaced by an eu designation clause applicable to all eu carriers. the aim is to grant all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and vietnam. in view of all this, i voted in favour of this report, which also received the favourable opinion of the tran committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-vietnam air transport agreement, which aims to replace certain provisions of the current 17 bilateral air services agreements concluded between vietnam and the member states, and to ensure, in accordance with the 2002 ruling of the court of justice of the european union, non-discriminatory access for all eu air carriers to routes between the eu and vietnam and thus compatibility with community competition rules.
in writing. the european commission has negotiated an agreement between the european union and the republic of vietnam, which replaces 17 existing bilateral air services agreements between the latter and the member states. the agreement in question does not contain the usual provision on the taxation of fuels in the european union on flights operated by third country operators. however, the benefits of the agreement for the european union are significant and my vote is in favour of the european parliament's recommendation. i would like to stress the designation clause in the agreement, which aims to give all european union air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and vietnam, but also the provisions on safety and compatibility with the competition rules.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as it is necessary to conclude the negotiations on trade with this region and i believe that there is a positive development in including in this document sectors such as energy, industry and raw materials and, above all, research, innovation and education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on trade, economic and financial relations between the european union and the gulf cooperation council countries (saudi arabia, bahrain, united arab emirates, kuwait, qatar and oman). i agree with the text's forecasts for relations between the european union and the arab countries of the gulf region, particularly with regard to the strategic agreements in the fields of energy, science and education. it is also important to conclude a free trade agreement.
in writing. − i believe it is in the interest of the eu and the gcc to strengthen relations at all levels, whether political, cultural, commercial or financial. on this report, for which i was rapporteur in the inta committee, i would like to highlight three proposals that i have advocated from the outset and which have been well received by colleagues: 1) increasing the diplomatic presence in the region by opening a delegation in each gcc member state through the european external action service; 2) holding regular summits of heads of state and government between the eu and the gcc; and finally 3) inviting the hr/vp and the trade commissioner to consider alternative approaches to future trade relations with the gcc countries in the form of bilateral agreements between the eu and the gulf states that already feel prepared to make new commitments to the eu. while this latest proposal represents a new approach by the eu to relations with third countries, i believe that neither the union nor any of the gcc countries willing to pursue the full range of relations can be held hostage by other gcc states that are not yet comfortable doing so.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the gulf region is able to compete with the eu in the global marketplace. good relations between these regional blocs can make an important contribution to safeguarding common interests such as international security, the fight against terrorism and global economic governance.
in writing. − the recent social, political and military upheavals and conflicts in several muslim-majority countries reinforce the need for europe to develop a strategy for the gulf region and to establish lasting contacts and partnerships with the region's main multilateral institution, the gulf cooperation council. the security and economic and financial issues that bring the two sides into contact are obvious, and the european union must make efforts and channel resources to better make itself known and to try to bring the draft trade agreement to fruition, which i believe could not only increase trade but also help to bring the two peoples into closer contact. i hope that the reforms undertaken by some of these countries will be consolidated and that europe can make a positive contribution to this process.
in writing. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june on the situation in the middle east, calls on the eu to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is resolved as soon as possible. despite the recent upheavals in some arab countries, the gulf states have great economic potential and offer an excellent opportunity for cooperation with the eu, not only because they are oil producers (whose reserves are beginning to run out), but above all because these countries are beginning to invest in alternative energies whose european know-how is well known, which represents an excellent business opportunity. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report and hope that we can soon agree to an agreement to strengthen the eu's partnership with the islamic community.
in writing. - there is no lack of reasons for concern, and there are no shortage of sources of instability which make the regional geopolitical context highly complex: from the situation in palestine to the war in iraq, the situation in iran, the recent popular uprisings in several countries, such as yemen, and the situation in darfur. in the face of this situation, the european union has been using double standards with regard to the states of the region, which has made it difficult to resolve conflicts, negotiate and pursue peace. on the other hand, it is not uncommon for it to interfere, without respecting the sovereign rights of the peoples of the region. in this context, this report takes as its backdrop the 20 year old negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and the gcc, the oldest trade negotiations launched by the eu to date. that alone would be reason enough not to support the report. but some of the oral amendments which were put to it during the vote made it even more unacceptable. the reference to the un security council position on the establishment of the no-fly zone over libya, which is, as is well known, providing cover for the war against that country, is very special.
in writing. - we know that the geopolitical context in the gulf is very complex and includes sensitive and serious security and peace issues. the peace process in the middle east, the war in iraq, the situation in iran, the popular uprisings in yemen and the recent developments in darfur, as well as new developments in north africa, were highlighted. however, the report notes that 'more than one third of the total value of global sovereign wealth funds is held by the gulf cooperation council (gcc) states and these funds have helped to rescue the global and european financial system in response to the crisis'. it is in this context that the negotiations for the eu-gcc free trade agreement, the oldest trade negotiations launched by the european union and still unfinished, have been going on for 20 years. the truth is that the european union is using procedures of interference and double standards with regard to the states of the region, which makes it difficult for negotiations and even peace processes to respect the sovereign rights of the peoples of the region. the resolution adopted by the ep also includes new proposals which do not help the peace process in the region... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - negotiations between the european union and the gulf cooperation council have been going on for more than two decades in an attempt to negotiate a free trade agreement. they are thus one of the oldest trade negotiations launched by the union, which so far have remained inconclusive. in the last 20 years, the context of these negotiations has changed profoundly. the gcc states have a significant financial leverage in sovereign wealth funds, which reached over usd 1 380 billion in 2009, or over 35% of the world's volume. the gcc member states have become the economic engine of the entire middle east/north africa region, accounting for more than 40% of the national wealth produced in this area and holding 50% of official foreign exchange reserves, i.e. usd 1 070 billion. in view of the great financial and economic potential of these countries, we must take advantage of the present situation if the negotiations are to be successful.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which is a call by the european parliament for a more ambitious policy on a strategic partnership between the eu and the gulf cooperation council and its member states. for nearly two decades, the european union and the gulf cooperation council have been trying to negotiate a free trade agreement. these are the oldest trade negotiations launched by the union and have so far remained inconclusive. however, in the course of 20 years, the context of these negotiations has changed profoundly. the potential for cooperation between the two regions goes beyond the purely commercial framework. the two blocs share common interests in international security, the fight against terrorism, diplomatic mediation in the middle east's hot spots, regional crisis management, intercultural dialogue and global economic governance. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i consider it very timely that the ep is now calling for a more ambitious policy of the union towards the gulf cooperation council and its member states. i hope that the political will which is needed in this matter will be felt at the highest level.
in writing. − the gulf region is of great importance to the eu, and the development of a strategy to strengthen political, financial, economic, social and cultural links with the gulf cooperation council (gcc) is a key element in this. in this context, the conclusion of the eu-gcc free trade agreement is a priority objective. the potential for cooperation extends, however, to other areas such as education, energy and scientific research. i therefore join the call made by this plenary for a more ambitious eu policy towards the gcc and its member states and i hope that the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the gcc will help to promote and consolidate progress on respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights.
in writing. − i approve the appointment on the basis that all legal procedures have been completed, including a rigorous curricular evaluation.
in writing. − i support the outcome of the council vote on the appointment of mr peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank, based on a positive assessment of his cv and the written replies he gave in the questionnaire submitted to candidates for the post.
in writing. - at a crucial moment in the life of the european institutions, when, in particular, the european central bank is called upon to play a particularly attentive and interventionist role in monitoring the sovereign debt crisis, the stability of the euro and the economic recovery, i wish the newly appointed peter praet a successful mandate, and am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with dedication and competence.
in writing. - the european institutions must be served by the best. in this case the newly appointed peter praet has a spotless record and was approved with distinction at the hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. i therefore wish him every success in his eight years in office.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for an eight-year term of office, starting on 1 june 2011. all the data presented for this option and which also underpinned my decision indicate compliance with the criteria set out in article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the need for full independence of the ecb, in accordance with article 130 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and i therefore welcome the appointment of peter praet.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision, according to which the european parliament gives its favourable opinion on the council's recommendation to appoint peter praet as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. i wish you every success in the performance of the duties entrusted to you.
in writing. − i approve the appointment on the basis that all legal procedures have been completed, including a rigorous curricular evaluation.
in writing. − i support the appointment of mr adam farkas as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority), on the basis of his replies to the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority).
in writing. - if there is one lesson we have learnt from the recent crisis, it is that we need to reform the institutional structure of supervision by creating european bodies and thereby reshaping the whole concept of macro- and microeconomic supervision. that is how the european banking authority comes into being. as confidence in banking has been severely shaken by the global financial crisis, it is urgent that markets and europeans in general regain confidence in the soundness and robustness of their banking institutions and, in particular, regain confidence in supervisors. that is why the role of this new european banking authority is so crucial for the future. as the european parliament has approved the appointment of its executive director, i wish him an active, attentive and successful mandate.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system, where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the resulting systemic risks. i understand that the creation of the european banking authority is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that situations of genuine immorality, which have occurred in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not occur again. i therefore vote in favour of the choice of andam farkas as executive director of the european supervisory authority and wish him a high-quality mandate at all levels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr adam farkas as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority). mr adam farkas was the candidate selected by the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority) and was heard, in accordance with the established procedures, by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. all the data submitted for this option, which also provided the basis for my decision, indicate that the criteria set out in article 51 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1093/2010 are met and i therefore welcome the appointment of adam farkas.
in writing. - in accordance with this resolution, parliament approved the appointment of mr adam farkas as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european banking authority). i wish you every success in the performance of the duties entrusted to you.
in writing. − i approve the appointment on the basis that all legal procedures have been completed, including a rigorous curricular evaluation.
in writing. − support the appointment of carlos montalvo as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) on the basis of the selection of the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority.
in writing. - one of the consequences of the crisis was the need to create autonomous european bodies for the supervision of banks and insurance companies in the financial markets. these bodies will not replace national supervisory bodies but will work with them in exercising their prudential and systemic risk analysis mandate in order to prevent a new crisis of the scale of the one we are facing from crashing down on european states again. on the occasion of the european parliament's approval of the appointment of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority, i wish him success in the important post he now holds.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has brought to light the major weaknesses in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models were national in scope and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system where several groups develop their cross-border operations with the resulting systemic risks. the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is therefore essential to achieve an effective supervisory model, alongside many other control mechanisms to be decided on and implemented with real urgency. i therefore vote in favour of the choice of carlos montalvo as executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority and wish him every success in this role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr carlos montalvo as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority). mr carlos montalvo was the candidate selected by the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority) and was heard, in accordance with the procedures, by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. all the data submitted and which underpinned my decision indicate that the criteria set out in article 51 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1094/2010 have been met and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr carlos montalvo.
in writing. - in accordance with this resolution, parliament approved the appointment of mr carlos montalvo as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority). i wish you every success in the performance of the duties entrusted to you.
in writing. − i approve the appointment on the basis that all legal procedures have been completed, including a rigorous curricular evaluation.
in writing. − as financial markets have been hit hard by the crisis, confidence needs to be restored as a matter of urgency, and this is largely due to the role of supervisory authorities, who will have to exercise their mandate competently and effectively to instill the necessary confidence in investors and businesses. it is in this context that the european securities and markets authority emerges. it is not intended to replace national supervisory authorities, but will have an important role to play in the new framework of european supervision. it is therefore important that this entity should be operational as soon as possible. as the european parliament has approved the appointment of its executive director, i wish him every success in his term of office.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted major shortcomings in financial supervision, both in individual cases and in relation to the financial system as a whole. the supervisory models had a national vision and did not keep pace with the globalisation that has occurred in the financial system where various financial groups develop their operations across borders with the systemic risks that arise. the creation of the european financial markets authority is essential to achieve an effective supervisory model. but many other steps will have to be taken to ensure that the situations of genuine immorality, which have occurred in the recent past, with damage to economies, shareholders, depositors, taxpayers and the credibility of the system, do not happen again. i therefore vote in favour of the choice of verena ross as executive director of the european securities and markets authority and wish her a high-quality mandate at all levels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of verena ross as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority). verena ross was the nominee selected by the board of supervisors of the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority) and was heard, in accordance with the procedures, by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. all the data submitted and which underpinned my decision indicate that the criteria set out in article 51 (2) of regulation (eu) no 1095/2010 have been met and i therefore welcome the appointment of verena ross.
in writing. − pursuant to this resolution, the european parliament approved the appointment of ms verena ross as executive director of the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority). i wish you every success in the performance of the duties entrusted to you.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, since there is a broad commitment so far. however, it is important to keep the focus: on linking the objectives of agenda 2020 to a line of 'responsibility and sustainability' (and not mere 'austerity' as the council suggests) or to the new needs arising from the lisbon treaty, without prejudicing appropriations for existing programmes that are successful. above all, the eu budget for 2012 should promote growth, high quality employment and help implement the 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget. i believe that the community budget for 2012 should be one of the main instruments to help the eu recover from the crisis and emerge stronger, by focusing on jobs, economic governance and growth. employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, training and social inclusion are the five objectives that should guide the preparation of the eu budget for 2012. europe will thus experience smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the 2012 budget, considering that, in view of the difficult economic situation throughout the union, it has never been more important to ensure sound implementation and quality of budget expenditure and an optimal use of existing community funding. the community budget should be one of the main instruments to help the eu recover from the crisis and emerge stronger, focusing on jobs, economic governance and growth.
in writing. − this report sets out the priorities for the european parliament in preparing and discussing the 2012 budget, taking into account the start of the trilogue at the end of this month. this report is innovative in its political content: it aims to highlight and reinforce the important debate taking place in the european institutions and in the member states on all the elements of the economic governance package. it also aims to highlight the impact and importance that the 2012 budget can have in meeting the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy for growth and sustainable job creation across the european union. the european parliament is thus sending an important political message to the european institutions and the member states about its strong commitment to strengthening economic governance and to achieving the objectives set for growth and employment.
in writing. − i agree with the eu2020, advocating for this a strengthened economic governance and the existence of the necessary funds for the implementation of its seven flagship actions. the eu2020 objectives will only be achieved if there is strong european governance and coordination and if member states make the necessary investments for their actions. however, this strategy can only be fully implemented with a new multiannual financial framework. this report forgets the importance of cohesion policy, not once mentioning it. agriculture is also forgotten. however, about 80% of the budget is allocated to cohesion policy and agriculture. the report does not even mention youth, which is incomprehensible. this is the priority for the current budget, as proposed by the epp. in addition, youth is present in the five eu2020 objectives. the targets of reducing school drop-out to below 10% and of 40% of young people aged 30-34 obtaining a university degree are exclusive to young people. however, i hope that the 2012 budget will contribute to sustainable growth in the eu, enhance competitiveness, and promote employment.
in writing. - this is one of the times when the objective of economic and social cohesion should require a completely different vision and content of the budget of the european union. at a time when inequalities between member states are widening, the community budget must be at the service of real convergence. it shall promote economic growth, the creation of jobs with rights, the promotion of social progress and well-being, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion and the preservation of the environment. this would of course require at least a doubling of funds on the basis of increased contributions from countries with the highest gdp per capita, followed by a fair and balanced redistribution of funds, giving priority to those countries with the greatest difficulties. we disagree with a budget that is committed to supporting the reconstruction of monopolies and the growing militarisation of the european union, the liberalisation of numerous sectors of economic activity and the precariousness of employment advocated by the eu 2020 strategy. this path will only accentuate the economic, social, regional and national disparities that already exist and will not solve the problems of unemployment and poverty. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − the eu budget for 2012 is the main instrument for the eu to recover from the crisis and emerge stronger, focusing on jobs, economic governance and growth. the adoption of these general guidelines is an example of this. employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, training and social inclusion are the five objectives to be focused on when drawing up the eu budget for 2012. the europe 2020 strategy, based on these five objectives, should help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger from it through 'smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'. we must therefore oppose any attempt to limit the budgetary appropriations linked to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy's key objectives and flagship initiatives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget. this is a 2012 budget under the auspices of strengthened european economic governance, the european semester mechanism and the europe 2020 objectives to boost employment. whereas the europe 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the eu's five key objectives - namely promoting employment, improving conditions and public spending for innovation, research and development, achieving our climate change and energy goals, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, including through poverty reduction - i agree with the recommendations in this report to fully achieve these five objectives. i also agree with the rapporteur that there should be consistency between the achievement of these objectives and the funding allocated to them, and the new mechanism for enhanced european economic governance should be an opportunity to study how best to achieve the five objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget, with a view to the trilogue to that effect scheduled for 30 march 2011. in this context, i would like to stress the need to give due weight to the impact of the budget in achieving the eu's objectives and implementing the 2020 strategy, as well as the role that budgetary policy should play in terms of investment, growth and employment.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against the risks of exposure to carcinogens and to the use of carcinogens in the manufacture of foodstuffs. the european union should not allow this kind of treatment, as it is a human rights issue in which the eu should be a model.
in writing. - europe is facing the demographic problem of an ageing population, hence the need for labour demand, an important contribution to economic development, increased competitiveness and the vitality of the european economy. europe will have to respond to present and future labour needs and provide a means of combating the exploitation and discrimination that workers often suffer. by creating a single application procedure for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state to work there and by offering them a secure legal status, this proposal for a directive responds to these needs, while also simplifying the often complex administrative processing. the member states remain competent to determine the number of migrants they wish to admit to their territory for the purpose of gainful employment and the conditions for admission. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which provides for a single address for legal immigrants to reside and work, provides for a 'single residence and work permit' for third country nationals and confers on them rights equivalent to those of european citizens. i agree with this proposal, which aims to simplify administrative procedures and ensure equal treatment between european and immigrant workers in respect of a number of social rights such as access to social security. this will facilitate legal immigration where the needs of the european labour market are to be met.
in writing. − this proposal aims to address the concerns expressed in the stockholm programme to create flexible immigration policies to support the eu's economic development and performance. it aims to simplify and harmonise the rules currently in force in the member states by creating a single application procedure leading to a combined residence and work permit. it should contribute to improving the effectiveness of this procedure and bring clear benefits both for employers and for third-country nationals wishing to immigrate to the territory of the member states. it will ensure that these migrants have rights and obligations comparable to those of eu citizens in terms of working conditions, education and training, recognition of qualifications, social benefits, etc. at the same time it allows for easier control of the legality of their residence and employment. i therefore voted in favour of the excellent report presented to us by my colleague, mrs véronique mathieu.
in writing. - the proposal is about introducing a single application procedure for work and residence permits and defining a common set of rights for all third country nationals legally residing and working in the eu. this implies common rules for all member states, which aims to put an end to the current differences in the regimes in the various eu countries and to make the process of legalising workers faster, more uniform and more transparent throughout the union. if, on the one hand, legal labour migration, especially skilled labour, helps to combat illegal work and can help the competitiveness of the economy and overcome existing shortcomings, on the other hand we must not forget that, in a period of crisis and economic vulnerability, when unemployment is increasing, labour migration policy must be flexible, as the commission advocates, but it must also be sustainable and reasonable.
in writing. - this report addresses a subject which is increasingly urgent for discussion. in fact, the expected reduction in europeans with an active contributory status requires europe to open its borders to the entry of third country nationals to reside and work here, or else the current social security systems will fail. in 2004, the 'hague programme', alongside the need to combat illegal migration, recognised that legal migration would play a key role in the economic development of the european union. the stockholm programme, adopted by the european council on 10 and 11 december 2009, provides that labour migration can increase the competitiveness and vitality of the economy. i therefore agree with the position expressed in this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the regulatory amendment to implement a single procedure for the granting of authorization to third-country nationals legally resident in a member state, taking into account the demographic challenges that europe is beginning to face. it is also a more efficient and economical simplification process.
in writing. - the proposal for a directive on the single application procedure for the granting of a single authorization for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state, while claiming to improve the situation of workers from these countries, may in fact represent an attack on workers' rights in general. we must not forget that the proposal has its origins in the principle of the country of origin, established by the infamous bolkestein directive, which has increased inequalities between workers, particularly in terms of pay, and has ended up being harmful to all workers by the pressure it introduces towards a lower level of working conditions. by seeking to introduce disparities and differences in treatment between european workers and workers from third countries, the proposed directive increases the segregation of immigrant workers and further weakens the situation of all workers, forcing greater precariousness. we are faced with an attempt to promote social dumping. we believe that the rights of all workers, including immigrants, seasonal workers and posted workers, must be strengthened. we therefore regret that after the lead of the first version of this report, heavy measures are being insisted upon... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - the adoption of the directive on the single application procedure for the granting of a single authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state may represent an attack on workers' rights in general. the proposal has its genesis in the bolkestein directive, which introduced the principle of country of origin, encouraging the increase of differences between workers, particularly in terms of pay, and causing a penalising effect for all workers. by seeking to create disparities between european workers and workers from third countries, it increases segregation vis-à-vis immigrant workers, accentuating differences in treatment and further undermining their living conditions through the weakness and precariousness of their working conditions. this proposal for a directive may be promoting social dumping and increasing precariousness in industrial relations. what is needed is to strengthen the rights of all workers, including immigrants, seasonal workers and posted workers. however, the struggle of workers in various european countries (notably in portugal) made it possible for the proposal for a directive to be rejected at the last plenary session of 2010. we regret the insistence on heavy measures... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - with the adoption of this proposal for a directive, immigrant workers will have the same rights as national workers as regards at least pay and dismissal, health and safety at work, working time and holidays. the proposal aims to establish a 'single residence and work permit' procedure for legal immigrants and to give them a common set of rights throughout the eu. this simplifies the procedures for national authorities to issue a 'single residence and work permit' to legal immigrants, so that they enjoy a set of rights equivalent to those of workers in the member state in which they reside. however, the admission of immigrants for the purpose of work, including the volume of admissions, should remain a matter for each member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on a single application procedure for the granting of a single authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state. this is a subject which is becoming increasingly relevant in the current economic and social context. indeed, one of the best ways to combat irregular immigration and illegal work is to develop balanced legal migration channels, which respond to the needs of our labour markets as well as to the social requirements of good integration into the host society.
in writing. - in the face of the demographic challenges europe will face in the future, it is curious that the eu should develop a balanced and flexible immigration policy, which can respond to labour needs and which can contribute to the competitiveness and vitality of the economy. the adoption of this directive - which creates a single application procedure for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state to reside and work there and which grants them a common set of rights in labour market matters - is precisely in line with these concerns and has therefore earned my vote in favour.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to create a single residence and work document for third-country nationals in a member state, thus making the admission process faster and more uniform, while reducing the bureaucratic and financial burden of the process. economic migration is now a reality which must be analysed with a view to developing legal and balanced immigration channels which can meet the needs of european labour markets. the economic and demographic challenges facing europe require a common immigration policy to be devised among the 27 member states. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has established a new legal basis in this area, the codecision procedure, and i therefore consider it essential to establish a common and harmonised approach in order to reduce the differences between national legislation. in addition to the above, the proposal also provides for equal treatment of national workers, creating a secure and protective legal status, since immigrants participate in the economic activity of the host country. decisions not to grant aid shall be duly justified and transparent and the costs incurred shall be proportionate to the services actually provided.
in writing. − in october 2008, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive which aims to bring together in a single text the consumer protection acquis, which covers four directives (on unfair contract terms, on certain aspects of the sale and guarantee of consumer goods, on consumer protection in distance sales and on consumer protection in out-of-commerce contracts). it should be noted that these revised directives contained minimum harmonisation clauses, which led many member states to maintain or adopt stricter consumer protection rules, creating a fragmented regulatory framework throughout the community with consequences for the internal market, in particular for businesses and consumers in cross-border transactions. i believe that this legislative text, which was voted on today, strengthens consumer protection while taking account of the specificities of sectors where full harmonization would not always be feasible. i welcome the proposal to set up a system of mutual evaluation, which would require member states to indicate in detail why different national provisions are necessary and to what extent they respect the principles of proportionality and effectiveness.
in writing. - consumer law is one of the main pillars of the internal market. their protection and security are fundamental to greater security in the conduct of the day-to-day procurement of goods for cross-border trade and, consequently, for the competitiveness of businesses. in this respect, a balance between consumer rights and the cost to businesses is essential. furthermore, it is necessary to take account of the various national particularities and the protection offered, with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore believe that this is an area where, on the one hand, maximum harmonization may be useful, but on the other hand, minimum harmonization may also be adopted depending on the type of contract, because it is more appropriate.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain dangerous substances. it aims to ensure that consumers in all 27 member states have confidence in a high level of consumer protection and that businesses, large and small, can supply goods and services to consumers in all 27 member states of the union without unnecessary legal obstacles. the proposal aims to ensure that consumers, wherever they shop in the eu, have clear information on prices and surcharges before they sign a contract. it strengthens consumer protection against late or non-delivered goods by giving them rights in respect of cooling-off periods, returns, refunds, reparations, guarantees and unfair contractual terms. the trader is obliged, in relation to all contracts concluded with consumers, to provide clear information enabling an informed choice to be made. i welcome the exemption from the information requirements for contracts which involve 'daily transactions and in which the trader has to supply the good or service immediately after the conclusion of the contract', which avoids an unnecessary administrative burden.
in writing. - another commission proposal in which the promotion of crossborder trade appears as the central motivation for the exercise of the power of legislative initiative. in this case, and because we are faced with an unoriginal proposal for 'consumer protection', the argument is again made that free competition is the alpha and omega of consumer protection, and once again and forever a profession of faith in the virtues of the free market is made. in fact, it is more about the rights (and interests) of companies than about the rights of consumers. the european commission advocates full harmonisation of the rules laid down for consumers. this harmonization, if not made by progress and taking into account the legislation already in place in each country, could in practice lead to the loss of consumer rights in some member states where legislation in this area is more advanced. as this is a first reading, and as it has already been possible, in the course of the debate so far in the committee, to improve the commission's initial proposal, we hope that it will be possible to go even further in defending the rights of consumers.
in writing. - we are at the first reading stage of the european commission's proposal for a directive on consumer rights, which focuses on promoting crossborder trade, always starting from the principle that free competition is what best serves consumer rights, but in fact paying more attention to business rights than consumer rights. the european commission also advocates full harmonisation of consumer rules, without taking into account existing legislation in each country, which could lead to the loss of consumer rights in some member states. however, in the parliament's committee on internal trade there was an intense debate and a broad consensus was reached which made it possible to significantly amend the initial proposal submitted by the european commission. however, there seems to be room to go further in defending consumer rights and to try to influence the negotiations with the council in a positive way. we have therefore agreed to the rapporteur's request to refer this report back to the committee on the internal market of the european parliament.
in writing. the proposal aims to replace four directives currently in force on out-of-commerce contracts, unfair terms, distance contracts and the sale and guarantee of consumer goods by merging them into a single legislative act. the purpose of this proposal for a directive is to increase consumer confidence and protection when shopping in stores or on the internet and to reduce the reluctance of companies to sell in other countries. the proposal for a directive on consumer rights aims to ensure that, wherever they shop in the eu, consumers have clear information on prices and surcharges before they sign a contract. in general, all contracts are covered, i.e. whether purchases are made in a shop, at a distance or outside commercial establishments. this directive is intended to strengthen the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the idea of codifying consumer rights in a single act. the reduction of barriers to crossborder trade is to be noted and the attempt to make the internal market more efficient and to promote crossborder trade by combining the four directives now consolidated into one is to be commended. the proposed directive still contains aspects which can and should be improved, but it is still a very positive step forward in this area.
in writing. − the european commission wants to simplify and complete the regulatory framework on consumer rights and therefore proposes to merge the four existing directives into a single legislative instrument. this proposal requires, on the one hand, that consumers in the 27 member states be given a high level of confidence in the protection of their rights and, on the other hand, that suppliers of goods and services reduce legal and administrative obstacles when selling across borders. the adoption of this report is another step towards the full completion of the internal market, as the existing legal fragmentation is a deterrent for both consumers and businesses when they wish to carry out cross-border trade. the content of the proposal allows for full harmonisation aimed at out-of-business and distance contracts, in particular online transactions. at the same time, the rapporteur includes flexibility clauses which allow member states to maintain a high level of consumer protection. the application of a set of rights and duties to consumers and businesses in a single legal framework will allow for a simplified network for the growth of transactions in the internal market.
in writing. - i approve this report as electronic communications, infrastructure and services are essential for today's society and as the european network and information security agency has done important work and has ongoing issues, including cyber security, it makes sense to extend its mandate and its functions.
in writing. − network and information security is a growing concern not only for policy-makers but for all citizens who increasingly interact with each other and with state authorities through them. the same zeal and attention that once guided public efforts to crack down on mail fraud must now be required for the security of new forms of communication which, being more sophisticated, require constant monitoring and updating. i agree with the extension of the mandate of the european agency by 18 months, as proposed by the european commission and supported by a parliamentary committee, in order to allow a rich and fruitful debate between the european institutions, involving citizens, on the challenges, priorities and competences of the agency and at the same time to avoid the legal vacuum that would result from the lack of extension.
in writing. - this report is based on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending regulation (ec) no 460/2004 establishing the european network and information security agency (enisa). enisa was set up in 2004 for an initial period of five years to support the functioning of the internal market by monitoring the security of networks and ensuring the flow of information within the european union. with the widespread availability of information technology and the speeding up and flexibility of networks, the first attacks by so-called hackers have emerged, putting network and information security at risk. recently, the world was stunned by the revelations made on the wikileaks website. in march 2009, the commission asked enisa to support member states in their protection against 'cyberattacks and cyberbullying'. in july of the same year, member states supported the extension of the mandate of enisa. considering that network security and information flows issues play a key role in the digital agenda for europe7 (europe 2020), i agree to extend the mandate of enisa for a further 18 months.
in writing. −we recognise the importance of network and information security in the multiple fields of activity where it has relevant social applications today. but the mechanisms by which this security is guaranteed cannot be dissociated from the political and social context in which they are developed and applied. in particular, we cannot ignore the fact that the prevailing logic of valuing security and the logics of surveillance of cyberspace have not always ensured due respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. we think it is particularly significant that the eu is funding research programmes by large multinationals that have mastered the technologies that allow governments to spy on internet users, while creating or developing agencies, such as enisa, that will pay for the use of these same technologies. the internet is recognised as one of the most important public spaces of the 21st century, and it is important to value this feature of the internet, rather than opening the way for the appropriation of this space by economic power, thus using it for the benefit of a few, a few, to the detriment of the vast majority and using it for social progress.
in writing. − the extension of the mandate of enisa and the strengthening of its resources in the name of an alleged 'increase in the level of network and information security within the european union' is part of a logic of valuing security, which does not always ensure due respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all citizens. we must be careful that the name of greater supervision of cyberspace does not become a tool for oppressing and repressing people. the internet and its various tools are not oppressive in themselves. the question is the political and social context in which it is used. in this regard, it is particularly significant that the eu is funding research programmes by large multinationals (who dominate the technologies that allow governments to spy on internet users) while creating or developing agencies, such as enisa, that will pay for the use of these same technologies. the internet is recognised as one of the most important public spaces of the 21st century. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − the extension of the mandate of the european agency for 18 months, as proposed by the european commission, makes perfect sense, as it allows the necessary debate to take place in the european institutions, in a way that involves all stakeholders (including citizens) on the agency's challenges, priorities and competences. this avoids the legal vacuum that would otherwise remain if this mandate were not extended. network and information security is a priority for all those who use it. in terms of security, we must maintain the same attention that was given to the media of the past, and these, because they have more advanced technology, need to be given extra care.
in writing. - i agree with this amendment to the term of office of the european network and information security agency. the ongoing legislative process for the reform of the agency will require a long time for debate and the mandate of the agency, which expires on 13 march 2010, has to be extended. it is necessary to approve an extension to allow sufficient time for the debate in the european parliament and the council to take place and for the coherence and continuity of the agency's work to be maintained. in this context, i voted in favour of this amendment which provides that the mandate of the agency is to be extended until 13 september 2013.
in writing. − the reinforcement of network and information security is a matter of the utmost importance. it is therefore essential to ensure that the debate on the legislative process for reforming the european network and information security agency can be properly matured, and i therefore voted in favour of extending the mandate of the agency until 13 september 2013.
in writing. - i would like to express my solidarity with the japanese people following the earthquake and tsunami that struck northern and eastern japan in march. serious failures in the operation of nuclear power stations are causing fears of nuclear catastrophe and forcing us to rethink nuclear safety standards in europe. i call for the urgent need for a serious discussion on the need for safe nuclear energy in europe and on the fact that europe needs this source of energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses solidarity with the victims of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident in japan and calls on the eu and its member states to provide the affected regions with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - on 11 march, japan was struck by a very serious earthquake, followed by a tsunami which triggered the largest nuclear crisis in its history, with the fukushima nuclear power station suffering severe structural damage and since then at imminent risk of a major nuclear disaster. this catastrophe has already caused thousands of deaths and has become the greatest disaster in japanese history since world war ii. at this moment, i join this house in adopting a vote of profound solidarity with the japanese people and convey my condolences to the families of the dead and to all those affected by this catastrophe of unimaginable proportions.
in writing. the recent unprecedented natural disaster in japan has left the entire international community deeply shocked and deserves not only words of solidarity but also technical and humanitarian support from the european institutions. the problems that have arisen with the fukushima nuclear power plant have once again put the energy debate on the agenda. in fact, 30% of the energy consumed in the european union is nuclear, with countries producing around 80% of it, such as france, and countries without nuclear power stations, such as portugal and austria. the european parliament has debated this issue on several occasions, concluding that the eu and the member states should encourage and support the production of so-called 'green energy', including on environmental issues. i therefore wholeheartedly support this resolution which seeks, on the one hand, to draw up a safety check plan for all european nuclear power stations and, on the other hand, to increase significantly the production of energy from renewable sources so that it becomes the main source of energy in the european union. the need for energy efficiency and the achievement of the eu 2020 20/20/20 targets should also be emphasised.
in writing. the resolution focuses on what we consider essential at this moment: to express our full solidarity with the japanese people and, in particular, with the victims and the families of the victims of the catastrophe that has struck the country. this solidarity must be concretized in the provision, at international level and in particular by the eu, of the forms of assistance deemed necessary in the relevant areas to be defined and implemented in conjunction with the japanese authorities. that is why we supported the resolution and voted in favour of it. the question of nuclear safety and the implications of what happened at the fukushima plant, which we had the opportunity to discuss during the debate, are not covered by this resolution. in particular, the need to review and, if necessary, adapt redundancies to the existing safety systems of power plants in the eu member states. the need to initiate a broad debate in society on the energy question, on present and future needs and how these needs should be met, addressing in a clear and informed way the risks, impacts, potentials and limitations of each of the various forms of energy.
in writing. - we voted in favour of solidarity with the japanese people and government in the face of the triple catastrophe - earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident - that has struck the country. the resolution also calls on the eu to provide the necessary financial and technical support to the japanese authorities. the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck japan on 11 march caused thousands of deaths and missing persons, as well as considerable material damage. this catastrophe has caused a very serious nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power station, which poses a new threat. we therefore convey our deepest sympathy to the victims of this triple catastrophe, at a time when the human and material losses have not yet been fully accounted for. we also underline the 'mobilization, courage and determination' of the japanese people and authorities in the face of this catastrophe, and call on the eu and its member states to provide japan and the affected regions with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support as a matter of priority.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. in this joint resolution tabled by all the political groups, we call on the eu and the member states to provide japan with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support. the devastating earthquake and tsunami that struck japan on 11 march caused thousands of deaths and missing persons, as well as considerable material damage. this catastrophe has caused a very serious nuclear accident at the fukushima nuclear power station, which is itself a serious threat. it is therefore our duty to convey to the japanese people and government our deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims of this triple catastrophe.
in writing. - on 11 march, japan and the pacific region were struck by a devastating earthquake, followed by a tsunami, which caused thousands of deaths and disappearances and considerable material damage. i voted in favour of this resolution expressing solidarity with the victims of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident and i hope that the european parliament's appeal to the eu and its member states to provide the affected regions with all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support will be fully and urgently met.
in writing. - at a time when japan is facing the worst crisis in its history since the second world war, following the earthquake and tsunami that struck the country on 11 march, i join in expressing our deepest solidarity with the japanese people and in urging this house to ensure that the eu and its member states urgently provide the affected areas with all the humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support they need.
in writing. the pacific region, and japan in particular, was struck by a devastating earthquake and tsunami on 11 march. i think it is important to mention again that natural disasters are increasing in number and intensity, and that it is therefore necessary to rethink pre- and post-crisis scenarios at world level in order to anticipate and provide aid to the countries affected. the natural disaster also caused a very serious nuclear accident, which particularly affected the fukushima plant. this episode has shown that there is an urgent need to reflect on the safety conditions of european nuclear power stations. i therefore call for a debate, preceded by a thorough analysis, on how to reduce the devastating effects of a nuclear accident on the regions and populations where it occurs. i welcome the european union's readiness to provide all humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support as a matter of priority, and the immediate activation of the european civil protection mechanism. however, i believe that it is essential to provide this mechanism with more logistical and planning resources in order to make it a genuine mechanism for protecting the countries concerned.
the problem of the use of civilian products and technologies for military purposes needs an approach that does not end with the control of exports of so-called dual-use goods and related services. this export control is important and must be carried out in a rigorous manner that does not jeopardize the access of developing countries to the products and technologies necessary for their development. it is important to increase the transparency of the procedures and to enable them to be subject to democratic scrutiny. but this also requires that other european union policies are consistent with the objectives of this regulation. we recall, for example, the research projects funded by the seventh framework programme for research, in particular those involving the israeli aerospace industry, the manufacturer of the drones used in the attack on the gaza strip in 2008 and 2009, which caused the deaths of dozens of people. here too, a rigorous assessment of the possible dual civil-military use of the results of these programmes is required.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, this is an important report which proposes a new global political approach to combating gender-based violence, with concrete measures, including criminal proceedings and also prevention and protection measures, drawing attention to the need to ensure women's empowerment, thus combating precarious work, unemployment and poverty, so that women can freely choose their way of life, which unfortunately does not happen today and often forces them into situations of dependency, including prostitution or including being subjected to acts of domestic violence that would otherwise be unbearable for these women. it is therefore time to move from words to deeds to put an end to this violence, which is undoubtedly one of the most serious forms of violation of human rights. this gender-specific violence, which also has a strong negative impact on children and tends to worsen in times of economic and social crisis, cannot be tolerated any longer. we therefore call on the commission to act as soon as possible, but also on the member states to take concrete measures to defend women's rights and to combat violence.
as a shadow rapporteur, i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report, which deserves the support of my group. it has already been said here that violence against women is a serious attack on human rights, a serious violation of human rights. we know that victims of violence are forced to forgo many of their fundamental rights and are left vulnerable to further abuse. not long ago i visited a shelter in my home country of portugal, and i spoke with several of these women. some described a life of suffering, and it was only because their children pressured them that they had the courage to denounce their abusers. others have gone to the children themselves, who, when grown up, have filed complaints because they did not have the courage to do so. but it is unacceptable that they, the victims, should have to leave home, take their children away from their family environment and leave the perpetrators at home. i think we need to change the legislation so that women are respected and so that women do not continue to be victims of violence, do not continue to be victims of situations that penalize us all. and i would say that it is also an attack on democracy itself, because these women are also deprived of their rights as citizens. so, together, let's fight this scourge.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is a serious violation of human rights, we have all said that. it is an old and global problem that affects culturally and geographically distinct more and less developed countries. this reality is often associated with disorganized families, families from weaker social and economic strata, but it is actually a phenomenon that exists in many families regardless of educational level, economic level or social position. it is estimated that in europe about one in five women has been the victim of physical violence at least once in her adult life. the priority is therefore to ensure support for women victims of violence and this report has a set of initiatives to this end: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the damage to the physical and mental health of the women victims is incalculable, but society also bears high costs. the fight against this phenomenon therefore requires political and social mobilization. it is, after all, about ensuring equality and development. the organization of a european year to combat violence against women is therefore welcome, as it will have the virtuality of raising awareness among european citizens against this terrible scourge.
in lampedusa, commissioner, the refugees were received in terrible conditions, without food, without toilets, in truly inhumane conditions. the detention centre is currently closed, with no access for ngos, journalists or even, possibly, mps. the italian refugee council is calling for temporary protection permits to be granted to these refugees, in accordance with directive 2001/55/ec, the implementation of which the commissioner has approved. and i thank you for your intervention, because that application was comprehensive and global. there are things we agree on, there are things we disagree on. however, what blocks such global action also has a name: the hypocrisy of the member states. the commissioner spoke about the closure of the codecision procedure for resettlement. as rapporteur, i can say that parliament is ready to see any idea that the council brings to the table. but we've been waiting for a year and a half and we don't have a single idea about resettlement. it is this hypocrisy of the member states that is at issue when, for years, they have allowed mr gaddafi to sweep refugees and immigrants under the carpet while selling them arms. that's why all the talk about the current lack of resources is absolutely hypocritical as well. in 2009 alone, european union countries earned 343 million from arms sales to mr. gaddafi and the first amount they made available to take in refugees from the arab revolutions was 3 million euros, a hundred times less. i think this difference says it all.
the provera report could not have come at a more challenging time. tunisia and egypt, countries in tremendous economic difficulties, have already opened their doors to more than 400,000 refugees from libya. meanwhile, european governments whistle in the wind and ignore the 20,000 people who are crammed onto lampedusa in subhuman conditions. the unrest in north africa has made it even more urgent for eu member states to fulfil their humanitarian obligations to welcome refugees and to redefine a migration policy based on solidarity and other core values and principles of the european union. the closed-door and forced return policies used by some member states in recent years with mediterranean neighbours may have prevented some migrants from reaching europe, through tight checks at north african ports, patrols in the mediterranean and even brutal methods such as electric shocks. but this has come at a shockingly high cost: the rights of migrants and refugees, forcibly returned to regimes like gaddafi's. the current emergency requires the adoption of a common asylum system with shared responsibilities including a temporary protection mechanism and much more offer of resettlement. we need a new strategy for migration that addresses the root causes of migration, such as poverty, discrimination, conflict and political repression, among others. without it, traffickers will always be able to find alternative routes. the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development must therefore become the real strategic priority in the european union's foreign policy and development programmes for the mediterranean and beyond.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, we have all said that we are faced with an increase in migration flows in terms of scale and complexity. the chronic conflict situations in afghanistan, somalia and the democratic republic of congo have now been joined by an alarming increase in new situations, such as those in egypt, tunisia and libya, which have led to a dramatic worsening of the situation. member states that, for geographical reasons, have been most affected by these migratory pressures have also lost considerable capacity to respond. the chaotic situation on the island of lampedusa, which has been mentioned by several speakers, is an example where the number of refugees has exceeded the number of residents. it is therefore urgent to ensure the necessary support to the member states most particularly affected by providing the financial, human and technical means to ensure an effective response capacity to massive migratory flows and to be able to respond with humanity to the human pressure we are facing. i therefore support the request made by my colleagues that the european union's solidarity mechanism be activated immediately. it is also important to take advantage of existing infrastructures and bodies such as frontex, the asylum support office and probably to reassess and adapt operation hermes. i also support what commissioner rui tavares has already said about the process of resettling refugees. it is important that the council, which is missing in this debate, does not continue to close itself off on legal pretexts and is able to successfully close this dossier of the resettlement of refugees. finally, commissioner, i believe that we need more solidarity between the member states of the union, better coordination of efforts and a sharing of responsibilities and burdens.
we know that to solve the problems of immigration we must support the development of the countries of origin of immigrants, without external interference but with concrete actions of solidarity, respect for human rights and the defence of peace, whether in tunisia, egypt, libya or any other country. but that is not what is happening, and the situation in lampedusa is a sad example of that. serious measures, measures of solidarity, measures to put an end to this tragedy are urgently needed. i would like to draw particular attention here, commissioner, to the situation of immigrant women, who must be guaranteed the right to their own passport and residence permit, which is also important in combating trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, and which must be combined with support for the resettlement of refugees. finally, i challenge the commission to review the return directive as soon as possible, a directive which is against immigrants fleeing war, hunger and poverty, who only want to be happy with their families and who deserve our solidarity.
madam president, the situation of women in agriculture and the countryside reflects and is affected by the deep crisis into which current policies, such as the cap and others, have plunged the countryside. women account for 42% of agricultural workers in the european union as a whole. the vast majority of these women work on family farms. they are therefore particularly affected by the closure of hundreds of thousands of small and mediumsized farms and the process of destruction of family farming, which have resulted from successive reforms of the cap, and they are also, as in the other areas of activity, the privileged victims of unemployment, precarious employment, low wages and poverty. all this is aggravated by the anti-social policies imposed under the pretext of the crisis. for all this, it is not enough to have nice words and statements of good intentions. we must break with these policies, by giving greater importance to the role of women, their rights and equality, and by enhancing and strengthening, among other things, the network of public services in rural areas, health, education, family care and other areas, as well as cultural and leisure facilities, by combating disparities and desertification.
mr president, about half the states of the european union have nuclear power stations on their territory. the age of many of the reactors in operation is relatively high, which makes it urgent to dismantle some of these reactors for reasons of safety and defence and to safeguard the health of the population and the environment. in the case of the new member states, which have been faced with the requirement to dismantle several units, it seems to us that it is right that they can count on community support to carry out the dismantling processes in an appropriate and safe manner. those processes should not neglect the necessary maintenance and monitoring after closure, waste treatment, storage and decontamination, environmental requalification of installations and support for the replacement of the energy capacity of decommissioned power plants, with particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency. as the report says, the social consequences of this process must be fully taken into account, and workers must be guaranteed, in addition to all the safety conditions before, during and after dismantling, the safeguarding of their jobs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a question that european citizens ask themselves: the european council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council meeting in brussels. many of them may think that decisions are going in the right direction, but they are slow and unambitious. those who saw the documentary "inside job" were outraged by such greed and lack of scruples and ask: if rating agencies work this way, what is europe doing to have independent and reliable rating agencies? president barroso said a short while ago that if a member state can avoid recourse to external aid it should do so, because external aid has high costs. that is also the view of the portuguese government. portugal does not need outside aid, it only needs to finance its economy and its families at reasonable interest rates. but because the rating agencies serve the interests of the speculators, the result of the enormous sacrifices that the portuguese are making goes directly into the pockets of these speculators. is this european justice? do the political decision-makers not realise that we are facing a crisis of the eurozone, i repeat, of the eurozone? that the attacks on the sovereign debts of certain countries are aimed above all at weakening the euro and calling into question the single currency and the european project itself? this is a european problem which requires a european response. to get out of the crisis we need more europe, not less europe, we need to rise to the challenge of our past, present and future, we need to give citizens confidence and hope, because without the support of citizens there is no european project.
mr president, it is astonishing, but revealing of the path this european union is taking, that the main spokesmen of the council and the commission have here ignored the serious social crisis in several countries of the european union, particularly in the euro zone. where are the answers to the estimated 100 million people in poverty in this european union, of whom more than 20 million are undoubtedly low-wage and precarious workers, contributing to the outrageously high profits of economic and financial groups? where are the answers for the 25 million unemployed, most of whom are women and young people, who are denied a decent present and the possibility of building a future that will allow our countries to develop? once again, the only concern of the council's decisions was to defend the interests of economic and financial groups with greater centralization of political power to facilitate greater concentration and accumulation of economic power and all this in order, in the name of the crisis, to call into question social and labour rights, increase the exploitation of those who work and aggravate the dependence of countries with more fragile economies, such as portugal.
madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, i would naturally first of all like to congratulate you on the results of the council of 24 and 25 march, in particular on the consolidation of the european semester but, much more than that, on the institutionalisation of the european stability mechanism and the conclusion of the euro plus pact which had already come from the eurozone summit of 11 march. i think that these are very positive results for europe and it is a pity that this process was not fully completed on 24 and 25 march. i believe that if we had given that signal, if the member states had given that signal in the council, by closing this package of fund reform completely, we would be in a stronger position today to face the 3-4 months and, in part, we would have mitigated the effects of the crisis that my country, portugal, is currently experiencing, and about which i also want to say a word. the psd, fully integrated into the epp, is absolutely and totally ready to meet the requirements and obligations of integration into the european area. that is what we have been doing, even at this time of short-term funding difficulties. unlike the socialist government, the social democratic party has shown its full willingness to give europe the guarantees it needs in the context of this crisis. and with this i want to give the signal, without bringing home politics to the european parliament, of the commitment, the commitment, the full guarantee of the social democratic party in the face of the rigorous agenda that the country will have to have after its elections on 5 june.
those who are pushing portugal for supposed aid do not really want to help, they want to make more money by sinking us and sinking the euro. because in this europe, where solidarity, cohesion and the community method have become empty words, the so-called aid is only to pay the banks who pushed us into the debt spiral in which they are now burying us, and all at the expense of the citizens, with the neoliberal revenues of the euro plus pact, without investment to revive growth and employment, nor eurobonds, nor tax on financial transactions, nor measures to stop the macroeconomic imbalances that are destroying the euro. in this europe, where there are banks too big to fail, but where we let states and peoples sink, it will be blindness or captivity by interests that explain why the commission and the council have given up on controlling tax havens. can the financial system be cleaned up, regulated and supervised, leaving untouched these black holes which are the instruments of corruption, fraud, tax evasion and organised crime?
the last european council, held on 24 and 25 march, focused on the major challenges facing the european union at the moment, both economically and diplomatically (the libyan and japanese issues). despite positive signs of economic recovery, however, the situation remains difficult and the economic crisis still seems far from over. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as such, it is important that the economic and financial measures necessary to deal with the crisis are adopted, to prevent further debt-setting events like those in greece, ireland and portugal from happening again, and to strengthen economic governance in the eu and ensure job creation. a package of six measures has been adopted, which i consider to be initially positive and with very ambitious expectations, such as the establishment of a european stability mechanism, the euro+ package, etc. i hope that they can be implemented as soon as possible so that they can begin to produce the results that are so necessary and expected.
the last european council took a series of decisions which, if implemented, would constitute an unusual, violent and dangerous attack on the workers and peoples of europe, embodied in the newly named 'euro plus pact' (certainly to hide its real authors - germany and france - since the previous name, 'competitiveness pact', would immediately expose them). in addition to the so-called 'economic governance', we are also facing an attack on the member states which are in a more vulnerable economic and social situation, that is, facing a real sentence of economic dependence and backwardness. both instruments are linked to the announced amendment by a simplified procedure and without any referenda to the treaty of lisbon, aimed at introducing the so-called conditionality associated with the european stability mechanism. according to the council conclusions, this will be 'strict political conditionality, in the context of a macroeconomic adjustment programme', a process whose development and implementation will be jointly conducted by the european commission, the ecb and the imf. we are basically facing a process of concentration of political and economic power, no longer just in a directory of powers, at the service of the big economic and financial groups, but in the institutions of transnational capital themselves.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of economic, financial and social crises. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of the support to be given to people who have been confronted, overnight, with the reality of unemployment. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of the egf for the czech republic to support workers made redundant in three enterprises in division 28 manufacture of machinery and equipment and nace rev. 2.
in writing. - i welcome the work carried out on the basis of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in particular in support of workers affected by changes in world trade. i also support the decision to mobilise the egf for poland in favour of workers in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector who have been made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is a very pertinent measure given the large drop in exports in this sector, which has consequently been accompanied by an equally worrying rate of unemployment.
in writing. - the request concerns 594 redundancies in three enterprises operating in the podkarpackie region of poland (machinery and equipment manufacturing). this is the first request to be examined under the 2011 budget. it is based on the intervention criterion in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which requires at least 500 redundancies in a nine-month period in enterprises operating in one or two nuts ii contiguous regions. the empl committee has assessed favourably their eligibility conditions. the fund was established in 2006 with the aim of providing additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns in order to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. following a review of its regulation in 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis. the annual budget available for the egf is eur 500 million. i believe that it would be a good thing if the necessary efforts were made to speed up the mobilisation of this instrument, so that aid can reach the workers in need more quickly.
in writing. − this report is based on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 453 570 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration of polish workers made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. this application, the first to be approved under the eu budget for 2011, was submitted by poland on 27 april and concerns 594 workers from the podkarpackie region working in the manufacture of machinery and equipment. given that this is a specific budgetary instrument, that the amount requested has a legal framework and that it complies with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission, in particular point 28, i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that it will help to alleviate the economic difficulties of the inhabitants of that region and to revive the local economy.
in writing. - the situation of agriculture and the difficulties facing the rural world are inseparable from the deep systemic crisis and the policies in force, such as the cap, which is mainly responsible for the continuing degradation of agricultural activity in some member states, all of which is geared to the interests of large farmers and agro-industry in northern europe, destroying family farming and compromising the viability of small and medium-sized farms. the role of women in agriculture and rural development is of paramount importance, representing some 42% of agricultural workers, and is a cornerstone in maintaining activity and ensuring effective combating of rural desertification. the report adopted, although lacking a realistic critique of the cap, is generally positive in its approach and in the way it values the role of women. it refers to the promotion of gender equality as a fundamental objective of the eu and its member states, as well as the creation of better living conditions in rural areas, countering the phenomenon of desertification, for which it is essential to defend quality transport infrastructure and improve access to transport for all in order to combat social exclusion and inequality in society that primarily affects women.
in writing. - this report allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund - podkarpackie machinery, located in poland. it is noted that poland has requested assistance in respect of 594 redundancies in three enterprises of the machinery and equipment manufacturing division in the nuts ii region of podkarpackie. the european commission proposed to mobilise the amount of eur 453.570, taking into account that the companies meet the eligibility criteria provided for in the egf regulation, linking the redundancies with the impact of the economic and financial crisis, which resulted in the decline of exports of the companies huta stalowa wola sa, hsw - zzn and dezamet sa by 47%, 34% and 58% respectively. the result, they claim, was a considerable decrease in the production of machinery and equipment, thus demonstrating the effect of the crisis on the companies concerned in this country. the 594 redundancies have a serious impact on living conditions, employment and the local economy, and the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is therefore of the utmost importance in supporting the workers affected. we therefore voted in favour, although we think that the most important thing is to avoid closures and unemployment.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to poland which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 594 redundancies (200 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 3 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in the nuts ii region of podkarpackie, poland.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 15 february 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the fund for poland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this concerns the dismissal of 594 workers (of whom 200 are potential recipients of assistance) from three enterprises operating in the area of machinery and equipment manufacturing in the podkarpackie region of poland during the nine-month reference period from 1 june 2009 to 1 march 2010. this is the first application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of € 453 570. the commission's assessment concluded that the redundancies were linked to major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial and economic crisis and that the redundancies were unforeseen. the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation and i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. − the application submitted by poland for egf assistance concerns 594 redundancies (of which 200 are eligible for assistance) in 3 enterprises operating in nace rev.2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in the nuts ii region of podkarpackie. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. − europe is facing an increase in migration flows due to instability in many countries, which is a challenge for the eu. these migratory phenomena can cause tensions between countries of origin and destination, as well as between countries of origin and countries of transit. combining development cooperation measures with a broader political vision that includes security, regional cooperation and bilateral agreements should be the eu's strategy. in this regard, this report identifies the following possible areas for action: encouraging countries of transit and countries of origin to achieve greater institutional economic stability; strengthening eu mediation and conflict prevention efforts in cooperation with regional organisations; negotiating bilateral immigration agreements with transit countries; and developing an economic agenda that includes specific measures to increase employment levels in eu partner countries. in developing new instruments for external action for the period after 2013, the commission should seek to enhance synergies between the development and the stability and security pillars. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the community's efforts to respond to the challenges created by instability and migratory flows, which affect not only the countries of origin but also the countries of transit in various aspects related to violence, violation of human rights, etc. i therefore support an active policy in this area, which seeks to address the initial destabilising factors in the countries of origin, such as the lack of economic and democratic structures. only in this way can the negative consequences of migration be eliminated, since migration must be positive and productive, not a means of escape. this policy should be based on cooperation between the countries of origin and transit, based on dialogue, in order to achieve solid, effective and lasting results.
in writing. - this is a very relevant topic and should be analysed in the light of its complexity. the report in question reflects the importance of pursuing cooperation treaties in the european neighbourhood policy (enp). this phenomenon of emigration motivated by crises and instability has negative implications for the country of origin, for the country of destination, and for the displaced populations themselves. it is necessary to reverse this phenomenon so that emigration, in these circumstances, is no longer a last resort, a flight to a context of insecurity, low economic development, instability or fear. i repeat in this declaration of vote the need to take measures to ensure and promote stability and security in the countries of origin. the prospect of reducing these migration flows, motivated by instability and crisis, should be prevention. i believe that european foreign policy, and very specifically the enp, should include aid to these regions of the world, promoting security, stability, the protection of human rights in a process of broader development, as i stated in my report on the revision of the enp-south, which will also be voted on this week.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on migration flows due to instability: scope and role of eu foreign policy. political, social and economic instability, insecurity and political repression, but also climate change, are pushing communities to migrate, and the eu needs to develop a common immigration policy, including, inter alia, the promotion of the economic and social progress of the countries of reception, transit and origin, and the strengthening of social cohesion and integration of migrants.
in writing. - the link between the hotspots of social, economic or political instability and the flows of migration into the european union is now clear. the union's foreign policy cannot be indifferent to this phenomenon, but must seek to understand and monitor it as widely as possible. indeed, the eu must take steps to optimise the use of its own financial resources and institutional structures to effectively manage the migratory flows resulting from the instability that exists today in various parts of the globe. a prevention policy using the most appropriate foreign policy instruments to address and tackle the causes of instability could help to turn the current desperate need for emigration into an opportunity for emigration. the rule of law must be promoted, human rights protected and the development of democracy and sound economies fostered. without such joint efforts in the respective countries and in collaboration with the respective peoples and social structures, it will not be possible to contribute effectively to the reduction of instability.
in writing. - this report focuses on migration flows resulting from political instability in certain regions of the world, notably north africa and the southern mediterranean. this situation has affected the countries of southern europe, particularly italy. we are all aware of the situation on the island of lampedusa, where more than 20 000 people have arrived, and the island of malta, which has brought over 400 000 000 refugees to europe! in order to minimise this situation, it is essential that the eu, in addition to the mobilisation of the european refugee fund, implement, as soon as possible, a more sustained plan aimed at humanitarian assistance and ensuring the basic needs of these populations. in addition, a regional programme for refugees from egypt, tunisia and libya should be drawn up, both in terms of asylum and refugee protection, in order to prevent trafficking in human beings and to prepare for their return to their countries of origin. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is a move by the eu, through its external policy of cooperation, to tackle the problems arising from migration flows in their structural causes and without prejudice of any kind.
in writing. - migration flows have causes. these include such factors as wars and armed conflicts, systematic violations of human rights, conflicts and ethnic and religious repression. but natural disasters and poverty resulting from the lack of adequate economic and democratic structures are also among the most frequent causes of migration flows. the effects of the crisis of capitalism on a world scale and the consequences of its irregular and asymmetrical development are aggravating the economic and social situation in many countries. the revolts in the arab world are also an expression of this phenomenon, which tends to give greater weight to migratory flows. the european union is often hypocritical in this respect, pursuing a policy of double standards. on the one hand, it claims to defend human rights in third countries, even taking an instrumental view of them when it comes to attacking some of these countries. it is also consistent with the persistence of serious situations, such as that in lampedusa, italy. we need measures to prevent these migratory flows, based on a genuine policy of cooperation and development aid, solidarity and the promotion of peace, including the peaceful resolution of conflicts, which is not happening today.
in writing. - we know that wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tensions, systematic violations of human rights - such as the refusal to allow people to practice their religion - natural disasters, poverty resulting from the lack of adequate economic and democratic structures are the main causes of migration flows. in the present situation, the situation is likely to worsen with the crisis that capitalism is suffering and its social consequences, including the uprisings in the arab countries. the european union cannot therefore continue its hypocritical policy of double standards, claiming to defend human rights in third countries, while allowing serious situations such as that in lampedusa to persist. we need a policy of prevention, of development cooperation measures with a broader political vision that includes above all solidarity and the safeguarding of human rights, which is not happening today. the european commission and the european parliament itself usually give priority to their economic and geo-strategic interests and forget about solidarity and the millennium development goals themselves, passing shameful directives such as the return directive. that is why we voted against this report, despite some positive references.
in writing. − migration flows resulting from instability are a challenge for the european union. wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tensions, systematic human rights violations such as refusal to allow people to practice their religion, natural disasters and lack of adequate economic and democratic structures are the main causes of this type of migration flow. this phenomenon is particularly worrying because it can cause or exacerbate tensions not only between countries of origin and countries of destination but also between countries of origin and countries of transit. in order to respond effectively to this challenge, the european union must implement a policy of prevention, using the most appropriate foreign policy instruments to directly address the causes of instability, turning migration into an opportunity rather than a desperate need.
in writing. − migration flows resulting from instability are currently a major challenge for the eu. they stem from wars, armed conflicts, ethnic tensions, human rights violations such as the refusal to allow people to practice their religion , natural disasters and the lack of adequate economic and democratic structures. this is a growing phenomenon which creates tensions not only between countries of origin and countries of destination but also between countries of origin and countries of transit. this report sets out a set of recommendations to enable the eu to respond effectively to this challenge. i would stress, among other measures, the adoption of a prevention policy to tackle directly the causes of instability, turning migration into an opportunity rather than a desperate need, and development cooperation as a broader political vision that includes security, regional cooperation, bilateral agreements with countries of origin and transit. these objectives must be pursued in parallel with the millennium development goals, which are closely linked to political stability and must frame the whole process.
in writing. the role of women in agriculture and the countryside is becoming increasingly important. in recent years, it has been found that support for women and their projects has made it possible to make important progress, resulting in greater development of rural society as a whole. women have contributed to the advancement of traditional economic models and lifestyles in rural areas, while also contributing to the stabilisation and modernisation of these business models and, consequently, to the sustainable development of rural areas. in rural areas too, women aspire to realise their life projects, to secure their economic independence and to face family challenges. in this connection, this report, which i have supported, argues for the need to pay more attention to the multiple interests of women, their skills and the objectives they have achieved, if women are to continue to be attracted to farming. providing rural men and women with success and good life prospects must be the main objective of european rural policy.
in writing. - i welcome the importance given by the commission to the role of women in rural development. the multifunctional role of women in recent years is a reality to which we cannot remain indifferent, both economically and socially. this applies in particular to agriculture, a sector in which women have made a significant contribution in recent years, particularly in diversifying and adapting farms to the market. in this way, and in line with the objectives of the common agricultural policy for a more sustainable use of rural areas, action should be taken to meet the needs and aspirations of women in these areas. to this end, particular attention should be paid to the maintenance and development of the necessary support infrastructure, with particular emphasis on education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the promotion of gender equality is a fundamental objective of the eu and that this principle should be included in the cap. it is essential that women's access to farming land and agricultural credit be facilitated. this report also contributes to the promotion of sustainable economic growth and rural development itself.
in writing. - if we want to make a serious commitment to the agricultural sector - as i do - and if we want to make the development of activity in rural areas a real option for families, it is imperative to ensure that those who make this choice have access to conditions - in terms of health, education or family support infrastructures - similar to those existing in urban areas. development and social cohesion imply that there is harmony between rural and urban areas, not that the former are forgotten, but that they are systematically considered less attractive. this paradigm shift can, of course, be achieved through the active role of women in farming communities. i don't have a romantic, bucolic vision of running away to the country. on the contrary, i know that such a lifestyle choice comes with costs and often means giving up easy access to infrastructure essential to modern life. that is why i welcome the concerns expressed in this report to enable quality infrastructure to be developed in rural areas too, in support of families, education, health and transport.
in writing. − the promotion of gender equality is a key objective of the eu and its member states. this principle should be included in the cap to promote sustainable economic growth and rural development; farms, rural tourism, direct marketing, social services are cornerstones of a rural supply structure and must be supported in a sustainable way through the common agricultural policy. these services should be promoted through the cap in order to provide women with new prospects and opportunities for paid employment, but also to make it significantly easier to reconcile family and working life. the ageing of the rural population must be combated and the conditions for population fixation must be created to this end, emphasising the importance of living, dynamic rural areas with a diverse population. i would stress in this context the importance of appropriate development opportunities and challenges for young women. it is necessary to support and revitalize the rural environment as a diverse and inclusive economic and living space, taking advantage in particular of the key role, expertise and skills of women.
in writing. the resolution opposes the adoption of the draft regulation proposed by the commission on 'the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to the reduction of disease risk or to children's development and health', as it is not compatible with the aim and content of the regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods. docosahexaenoic acid (dha) is present in breast milk and contributes to normal visual development in children up to 12 months of age. in a context where there is no clear scientific consensus on the effect of dha-enriched formulas on infants (whether from milk powder or other infant foods) in a biological environment other than breast milk, we believe that a precautionary and preventive stance should be adopted. we are therefore concerned about the adoption of the proposal for the regulation in question, as it is contrary to the requirements of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 which states, inter alia, 'that claims must be scientifically substantiated, taking into account all available scientific data'.
in writing. − all policies of the european union and the member states must take into account the promotion of equality and women's rights, as well as the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex. the situation of women in agriculture and the rural world, whose lives are affected by the deep crisis into which current policies such as the cap and others have plunged the rural world, must therefore be given particular attention. women, who account for some 42% of the 26.7 million people working in agriculture, are particularly affected by the closure of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized farms and the process of destruction of family farming, which have resulted from successive reforms of the cap. they are also, as in other areas of activity, victims of unemployment, precarious employment, low wages and poverty, which is aggravated by the anti-social policies imposed under the pretext of the crisis. so, more than empty words of substance, we need a break with the policies that have generated the current situation. the role of women, their rights, equality, public services in rural areas, health, education, cultural and leisure facilities, social facilities, etc. must be given priority. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - the increasing importance of women in agriculture and rural areas requires that the new cap takes this into account in order to promote gender equality. only in this way can we promote sustainable economic growth and rural development. as in urban areas, we must create good living conditions in rural areas so that women and their families have an incentive to stay.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general thrust of its proposals, in particular the promotion of multi-functionality in rural areas, which is a vital and economic space for the establishment and dynamisation of rural populations. it is important to recognise that rural areas are particularly affected by the ageing of the population, low population density and, in some regions, depopulation, and the cap must therefore be geared to responding to these challenges. it is a fact that women's work in agriculture has historically and systematically been devalued, often unpaid or subject to remuneration equal to that of work done by men. it is important to reflect on this issue and, above all, to establish equal working conditions for equal work. in any case, i believe that the key point is that this issue should lose its relevance for the establishment of gender equality in agriculture as well.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this will not be possible without community financial assistance to deal with the consequences of its closure and decommissioning, which naturally includes environmental rehabilitation measures in accordance with the acquis, measures to modernise conventional production capacity to replace production capacity, etc. the european union's financial assistance was made available in the form of contributions to the three international dismantlement support funds administered by the european bank for reconstruction and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on eu funding for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations in the new member states. i believe that the eu should support the closure of these plants and investment in alternative energy projects in order to ensure the safety and health protection of european citizens, reduce energy dependence and minimise any social costs.
in writing. − the rules in force in the central and eastern european countries before accession were less stringent than the rules applied in the eu at the time. in addition, some of these countries had old soviet-made reactors in operation which could not be adapted to the minimum safety standards required at an economically acceptable cost. for this reason, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria undertook upon accession to dismantle reactors found to be non-compliant. this required eu intervention and financial assistance, which is expected to continue in 2013. in the wake of the tragic events in japan, i consider it urgent to complete all the programmes for the closure and dismantling of nuclear power stations in central and eastern europe whose operation does not comply with european safety rules.
in writing. − lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria have fulfilled their obligations regarding the timely closure of their units at the three nuclear power plants: unit 1 of the ignalina unit was closed on 31 december 2004 and unit 2 on 31 december 2009; unit 1 of the bohunice v1 nuclear power plant was closed on 31 december 2006 and unit 2 on 31 december 2008. units 1 and 2 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant were closed on 31 december 2002 and units 3 and 4 on 31 december 2006. there is a legal basis for granting financial assistance; the amounts are fixed annually by a commission decision on the basis of individual combined annual programming documents which allow monitoring of the development and financing of approved projects. the aim of community assistance is to help these three member states cope with the financial and economic burden of early closure dates and to cover the costs of many major decommissioning activities, to invest in energy projects with the aim of reducing energy dependence and to help mitigate the social impact of nuclear decommissioning.
in writing. - we know that the average age of the reactors in operation at nuclear power stations, which exist in about half of the member states of the european union, is relatively high, which puts us before the need to dismantle some of these reactors for reasons of safety and defence and to safeguard the health of the population and the environment. in the case of the new member states, which have been faced with the requirement to dismantle several plants, it seems to us that it is right that they can count on community support to carry out the dismantling processes in an appropriate and safe manner. those processes should not neglect the necessary maintenance and monitoring after closure, waste treatment, storage and decontamination, environmental requalification of installations and support for the replacement of the energy production capacity of decommissioned power plants, with particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency. finally, it is noted that the social consequences of these processes must also be taken into account, guaranteeing not only all the safety conditions for workers before, during and after dismantling, but also the safeguarding of employment and other workers' rights.
in writing. − this report deals with eu funding for the decommissioning of old nuclear power stations in the new member states. these plants pose a danger to public health and the ecosystem not only of their country of origin but also of the whole of europe and the whole planet. in the light of the report's subject matter, i voted in favour of helping to dismantle these old power stations. however, i believe that the eu's nuclear policy must go further. in view of the serious risks of nuclear energy, which have been known for a long time, and the current nuclear disaster in japan, i call for the immediate establishment of a european plan to abandon this type of energy. i also believe that the eu should immediately suspend funding and support for new nuclear power stations.
in writing. - nuclear safety is a concern for everyone in europe. the recent accident in japan has highlighted the risks inherent in nuclear power stations. the countries of eastern europe which are seeking to join the eu have nuclear power stations of soviet technology which have been in operation for many years and are therefore at the end of their life. in view of the high costs of dismantling these structures, it is only natural that the eu should support these countries in their efforts to dismantle them so that no nuclear accident with the consequences that we all unfortunately know will occur in europe.
in writing. − in the context of eu accession negotiations, lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria negotiated support for the decommissioning of old soviet-designed nuclear reactors which, in the view of the international community and in line with the 1992 g7 munich summit, could not be adapted to the required minimum safety standards at an economically acceptable cost. in the context of the accession negotiations, the three countries undertook to close and subsequently dismantle these nuclear reactors by fixed dates. recognising that early closure represented an exceptional financial burden, the european union, out of solidarity, committed itself to providing adequate additional financial assistance for the decommissioning of these reactors by the end of 2013. the assistance programme has been subject to regular audits and evaluations. the eca is currently conducting outcome audits of the three programmes and a report is expected in autumn 2011. it can be concluded at this stage that synergies could have been created between the three projects to make eu action more efficient and effective. i voted in favour of this report, in particular the recommendation to the commission for the harmonization of the rules on the financing of the decommissioning of nuclear reactors.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of economic, financial and social crises. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of the support to be given to people who have been confronted, overnight, with the reality of unemployment. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of the egf in the czech republic to support workers made redundant by unilever čr spol. s r.o.
in writing. - i welcome the work carried out on the basis of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in particular in support of workers affected by changes in world trade. i also support the decision to mobilise the egf for the czech republic, in favour of the workers of unilever, who have suffered more than 500 unexpected redundancies as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this decision is therefore of great importance not only for the workers and their families, but also for the district of melník, where the unilever plant was located, whose economy is largely dependent on the food processing industry and the chemical and energy industries.
in writing. - the request concerns 634 redundancies at unilever cr, which operates in the retail sector in the czech region of střední čechy. as in the first application this year for the polish region of podkarpackie, the empl committee has assessed favourably the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria for this case. i cannot but note and regret the dispersion of redundancies throughout the union, which indicate that much remains to be done to reverse the cycle of crisis in which we find ourselves. i support the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf and i hope that the workers made redundant will be able to find new jobs as soon as possible.
in writing. − this report is based on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 323 820 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration of workers in the czech republic made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. this application, the second to be approved under the eu budget 2011, was submitted to the commission on 24 march 2010 and concerns 634 employees of unilever čr from the střední čechy region, who worked in the retail sector. given that this is a specific budgetary instrument, that the amount requested has a legal framework and that it complies with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission, in particular point 28, i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that it will help to alleviate the economic difficulties of the inhabitants of that region and to revive the local economy.
in writing. - another mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been launched. this time to support the workers laid off at the multinational unilever factory in the czech republic. as on other occasions, we voted in favour. but beyond the reservations we always make in these situations, there are particularities in this process that deserve to be highlighted: the european commission merely stated that unilever did not receive any state aid or aid from community funds for the opening of the plant in the czech republic, before or after accession to the eu. but the commission did not inform, as it should have and was asked to, about what is happening in other factories of the group, arguing that it was not mandatory under the egf regulation. more than what happened in the specific case of the unit in the czech republic, it is important to know and assess the behaviour of the unilever group at the level of the european union. we therefore regret the absence of this information on public aid granted to this group and, in general, to multinational companies whose restructuring justifies intervention by the egf.
in writing. - this is another mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), which in this case aims to benefit workers who have been made redundant at the czech plant of the multinational unilever. the european commission's position in this area has been very controversial, as it merely stated that unilever did not receive any state aid or financial support from european funds for the opening of the plant in the czech republic, before or after accession to the eu, but did not provide information on what is happening in other plants of the group, arguing that it is not mandatory under the egf regulation. in the debate in the committee on employment and social affairs, therefore, it drew attention to the fact that no information was available on what was happening with the unilever group at european union level and proposed that this issue be taken into account in the revision of the regulation so that the financial situation, including public aid for multinational companies whose restructuring justifies intervention by the egf, could be examined without jeopardising access to the fund for workers made redundant. that is why we are voting in favour of these proposals.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the czech republic which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 634 redundancies (all potential beneficiaries of assistance) in unilever čr, spol. sr. o, a company operating in the retail sector in the nuts ii region of střední čechy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 15 february 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in the czech republic to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this was the second application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of € 323 820. the case concerns the dismissal of 634 workers (all potential beneficiaries of the intervention) from the company unilever čr, spol. sr., operating in the retail sector in the střední region, during the four-month reference period from 16.09.2009 to 16.01.2010. the commission's assessment concluded that there was a causal link between those redundancies and the significant structural changes in world trade patterns resulting from the financial crisis, as well as the unforeseen nature of the redundancies in question. since the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. − the application submitted by the czech republic for egf assistance in respect of 634 redundancies in the period from 16 september 2009 to 16 january 2010 in the company unilever čr, spol. sr.o, operating in the retail sector in the nuts ii region of střední čechy, meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a company in a member state in a four-month period'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that the mobilisation of the egf will help to ensure the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. − dual-use technological products are all products (including software and technologies) which can be used for civilian or military purposes in parallel, and therefore require special care when exported to prevent the proliferation of weapons and, in particular, weapons of mass destruction. as is clear to any analyst, it is essential for international security that these products are controlled and that the regulations establishing such control mechanisms are continually updated in line with technological developments. it is also clear that in a state governed by the rule of law such controls must be transparent and democratic, as the commission intends. finally, i believe, as is clear from the afet opinion, that the commission should be sensitive to the fact that there are states within the eu which have more restrictive and more demanding rules on the control of exports of dual-use items. that is natural and, in my view, should be maintained.
in writing. - this report deals with the need to control the export and circulation of so-called dual-use goods, i.e. those which have a use not only for civilian purposes but also for military purposes. the european union (eu) has taken a number of measures over the past few years to prevent these materials from being used in the manufacture of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. the main eu control instrument is regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may, which covers brokerage activities and the transit of these materials, but needs to be amended to avoid differential treatment between member states. i therefore support the proposals in this report, as they are intended to reassure european citizens about the production and circulation of dual-use items and make the current system more transparent and more democratic.
in writing. − export controls on dual-use goods have been subject to eu-wide measures. the main export control instrument is regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 2009. this regulation introduced the extension of the scope of controls on brokerage and transit activities. although the report attempts to introduce greater democratic control and transparency, there are some key points which prevent us from voting in favour. with the establishment of the dual-use coordination group, chaired by the commission, the list of exporters, brokers and interested parties consulted from exporters is the responsibility of the commission. it is this group that decides which countries can be traded with, removing this competence from the member states and thus undermining their sovereignty. another aspect is the inclusion of israel in the list of countries of destination for dual-use goods. for example, joint research projects funded by the 7th framework programme for research, in particular those involving the israeli aerospace industries - the manufacturer of the drones used in the 2008/2009 attack on the gaza strip, which killed dozens of people.
in writing. - we voted in favour of returning this report to the respective parliamentary committee to allow negotiations with the council to continue, on the basis of the legislative proposal with the amendments introduced by the european parliament today. we know that the use of civilian products and technologies for military purposes lacks an approach that does not stop at the control of exports of so-called dual-use goods and related services. while this export control is important and must be carried out in a judicious manner, without jeopardizing developing countries' access to products and technologies necessary for their development, it is necessary to increase the transparency of processes and to enable democratic scrutiny. but we stress that consistency with other eu policies and the objectives of this regulation is also required in this area. joint research projects funded under the 7th framework programme for research are well known, in particular those involving the israeli aerospace industries, the manufacturer of the drones used in the attack on the gaza strip in 2008/2009 that killed dozens of people.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon clarifies the eu's competences in the field of international trade, and is thus a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in this area and the role, competence and responsibility of the european parliament within the eu's institutional framework for decision-making. the community's dual-use regime should be organised in a more transparent and democratic way; the full participation of the european parliament, through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission under the new framework agreement, will be crucial to achieving this objective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the consequent clarification of the eu's powers in the field of international trade is a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in this area and the role, competence and responsibility of the european parliament in the eu's institutional framework for decision-making. the community's dual-use regime should be organised in a more transparent and democratic way; the full participation of the european parliament, through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission, in the framework of the new framework agreement, will be crucial to achieving this objective. this is a recast of regulation (ec) no 1334/2000 in the light of the current international framework. indeed, the extension of the scope of export controls on dual-use items is essential to cover controls on transit and brokering and the application of sanctions to the illegal brokering of dual-use items related, for example, to a weapons of mass destruction programme.
in writing. export credit agencies (eca) are the world's largest source of public funding for private sector projects. these are government agencies or financial institutions segmented by governments that provide export credits, loans, insurance and investment guarantees to companies operating in high-risk regions abroad, including many developing countries. it should be noted that the financing of these major projects in developing countries amounts to several times the combined annual amount of all the multilateral development banks. in this sense, the aces are a well-placed instrument to contribute to the eu's external policy objectives, namely poverty alleviation and climate change. i welcome the improvements in the agreement in question, particularly in terms of greater transparency, and i consider it essential that it be explicitly stated that export aecs must take account of and respect the objectives and policies of the union, in particular the values associated with the consolidation of democracy, respect for human rights and policy coherence for development. while aces facilitate trade, in the absence of clear and transparent criteria and rules, they can distort trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on officially supported export credits because i believe that it is necessary for officially supported export credit institutions to demonstrate greater transparency and provide more information on their activities. full consistency with the objectives of article 208 of the treaty establishing the reduction and eradication of poverty as the main objectives of the union's development cooperation policy should also be ensured.
in writing. − the commission and the council are currently reviewing the legislative framework (the 'official supported export credit agreement') with a view to its transposition into eu law. the aim is to give the export credit agencies (eca) of the member states more legal certainty. export credits are effective instruments to support union enterprises, capable of helping to create jobs and develop projects that might otherwise face financing difficulties. the fact that more and more applications are being received would suggest a rapid introduction of the oecd convention by member states. i agree with the econ committee's opinion that 'european supervision of export credits should be introduced as an exception when there is any distortion of competition in the internal market. the principle of subsidiarity should be maintained.'
in writing. the report is concerned with a proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the application of certain rules to the obtaining of export credits by companies which are recipients of official support. in fact, most member states have export credit agencies (eca) which play a key role in supporting european trade and business investment, reaching €468 billion in the period 2004-09. these supports are part of the agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures (asmc), also known as the arrangement, negotiated within the framework of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) countries and represent public financing instruments to which the european union is committed. given that these agencies mainly support industrial activities with negative effects on the environment, in particular due to the production of co2, and that, according to the world bank, the effects on poverty reduction are negligible, i agree with the rapporteur's position that the aces should contribute to the achievement of eu policies and objectives, and there is therefore no need to revise the oecd convention.
in writing. − we believe that export credit agencies (eca) need to have greater supervision and control of both exports and investments and financing, as their lack of transparency causes immense damage and is conducive to bribery and corruption. the eca are public instruments which are often used by the eu to help finance its international objectives and its economic and geostrategic interests, which are inseparable from the objectives of domination and control of regions and countries, leading to the establishment of genuine relations of a neo-colonial nature. investments financed by the eca often do not bring any benefit to the countries that would supposedly benefit. the establishment of export credit guidelines is intended to circumvent the announced end of direct aid under wto agreements, which is opposed by developing countries, by putting pressure on these countries to accept the signing of the doha round. with direct aid or credit, the main objective remains control over markets, natural resources, exploitation of workers and the conditioning of the national sovereignty of the countries receiving the products or investments made possible by the financing of the aces.
in writing. − public export credit agencies (pecas) need to be more closely monitored and controlled, both in terms of exports and in terms of investment and financing, as their lack of transparency causes immense damage and is conducive to bribery and corruption. but the aces are public instruments often used by the eu to help finance its international objectives, notably in relation to climate change and poverty alleviation. sometimes this is used as a way of financing genuine eu neo-colonialism in so-called developing countries. the establishment of export credit guidelines is intended to circumvent the announced end of direct aid under wto agreements, which is opposed by developing countries, by putting pressure on these countries to accept the signing of the doha round. with direct aid or credit, the main objective remains control over markets, natural resources, exploitation of workers and the conditioning of the national sovereignty of the countries receiving the products or investments made possible by the financing of the aces.
in writing. − export credit agencies have been playing an increasingly important role in supporting all types of investment, thereby helping to reduce the impact of the current economic and financial crisis by creating jobs, helping trade and investment for companies that otherwise would not be able to obtain credit in the private sector. export credit agencies have become the largest source of public financing in developing countries. a significant proportion of export credit financing projects in developing countries are concentrated in sectors such as transport, oil and gas and extractive industries, as well as in large infrastructure projects such as large dams. it is important, however, that there be close supervision of the activities of these agencies to avoid problems in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur that export credit is a powerful instrument to support eu businesses. in view of the growing momentum of official export credit applications, it is of the utmost importance that the latest oecd export credit facility agreement is introduced as soon as possible by member states. medium- and long-term export credit support is a valuable instrument which is not yet fully exploited in all member states and which needs to be encouraged, especially in a weak economy such as portugal. export credit is certainly a driver of job creation by guaranteeing the financing of projects that would otherwise have no access to capital. any legislation in this area should avoid any new form of administrative red tape which could increase existing costs. european export credit supervision should only be introduced as an exception where any distortion of competition in the internal market could occur. the principle of subsidiarity must be strictly observed in this area.
in writing. - i welcome the concern shown at community level about violence against women. i believe that the member states must assume their responsibilities, which will of course include the adoption of the necessary legislation, if this european and international problem is to be tackled successfully. i therefore approve the new community policy framework on combating violence against women, which i believe is a development in the fight against the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, such as the right to security and human dignity.
in writing. - i strongly condemn any form of violence against men, women or children and i support any initiative to prevent and combat this scourge and to protect its victims. the figures revealed in some studies on violence in europe are unacceptable, with 26% of children and young people having been the victims of physical violence, between one fifth and one quarter of the female population having been the victims of physical violence at least once during their adult life and more than one tenth having suffered sexual violence with the use of force. the number of women who are victims of violence is alarming, and this is compounded by the enormous disparities between the policies and legislation of each member state, which mean that women cannot enjoy the same level of protection in the european union. it is crucial that european legislation ensures a comprehensive and consistent protection of the integrity of women through the adoption of a comprehensive legal act to combat all forms of violence against women, complemented by a whole range of measures in a number of different areas of a political, social and legal nature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that it is relevant to the balance of a society which seeks to be more complete and fair. this phenomenon is present in different societies in a multifaceted way, occurring in the private, public or semi-public sphere, with numbers and contours often unknown. i believe, as this report states, that a thorough analysis is needed and that more effective research procedures for this phenomenon must be developed in order to combat it better in the international context. this report proposes a new political approach to combating gender-based violence and strengthens measures between member states in the field of prevention, criminal sanctions and victim assistance. on the other hand, it raises important questions about the impact of this physical, psychological and sexual violence against women in the different spheres of society. i consider the active role of the commission, parliament and the member states to be crucial in creating measures to combat this phenomenon, which has implications for different peoples and generations.
in writing. − violence against women encompasses a range of serious violations of fundamental rights, such as sexual abuse, physical assault and domestic violence, psychological violence, harassment or coercion, trafficking in women and exploitation of prostitution, among many other forms of aggression that must be condemned and resolutely combated by states. i condemn all violence, but especially that which is directed against those who are most vulnerable - physically, socially, economically or emotionally - such as children and women. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. respect for human life and dignity is not compatible with the crimes of which many women in europe are victims, which is why strong policies to prevent violence and punish offenders are warranted.
in writing. - the international community has been discussing situations of violence against women for several years. however, we find that they are still victims of violence (one in five european women has been the victim of violence at least once). the european union (eu) must therefore pass legislation to put an end to this tragedy. although the european commission has taken some initiatives to put an end to this tragedy affecting millions of women worldwide, notably in the context of the development of the new action plan for gender equality (2010 to 2015), the truth is that the eu cannot sit idly by while violations of women's fundamental rights continue with impunity, in particular in the following areas: sexual abuse, female genital mutilation and forced marriage, trafficking in human beings and prostitution, lack of legal protection, etc. i agree that further studies are needed on this subject so that we have more detailed and scientific data. but we can't just sit back. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposals, in particular the creation of shelters for victims, an emergency number and the establishment of the european year against violence against women.
in writing. - violence against women in its many forms - domestic violence, sexual violence, prostitution, trafficking in women, sexual and moral harassment, violence against women in their workplaces - represents a serious violation of human rights and freedoms, both at individual and collective level, with profound negative social repercussions. the prevention and eradication of violence against women should therefore be strategic objectives of the highest importance, the pursuit of which is inseparable from the advances in civilization for which we are fighting. some studies on gender-based violence estimate that in europe between one fifth and one quarter of the female population have been victims of physical violence at least once during their adult life, and about one tenth have suffered sexual violence. it is also estimated that around 26% of children and young people report physical violence during childhood and adolescence, which is particularly worrying when we take into account assumptions based on social learning, according to which today's victim is potentially tomorrow's aggressor. it would now be important to put into practice the guidelines contained in this report.
in writing. - we welcome the adoption of this report by eva svenson, member of our group and chair of the parliamentary committee on women's rights and gender equality. we know that violence against women is a serious violation of human rights and freedoms, both at the individual and collective level, with enormous social repercussions, whereas violence against women encompasses a wide range of attacks on human rights, including domestic violence, sexual violence, prostitution, trafficking in women, sexual and moral harassment, violence against women in their workplaces. the prevention and eradication of violence against women are therefore important strategic objectives for the advances in civilization that we are striving for. some studies on gender-based violence estimate that in europe between one fifth and one quarter of the female population have been victims of physical violence at least once during their adult life, and about one tenth have suffered sexual violence. it is also considered that about 26% of children and young people report cases of physical violence during childhood and adolescence, which is particularly worrying, if we take into account assumptions based on social learning... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because violence against women remains a scourge in europe and the world, despite the campaigns that the international community has developed over several decades. it affects first and foremost the direct victims, but it also affects freedom and democracy itself. i also supported the report because it sets out a number of immediate measures needed to ensure women a decent life and stresses that long-term political, social and legal measures are needed to eliminate gender-based violence.
in writing. - violence in general is reprehensible, but it is even more reprehensible when it affects those who are least able to defend themselves, such as children, the elderly and women. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. - it is essential to break the silence around all forms of rape, and in this case gender-based rape. crimes in the form of intimate violence, sexual abuse, trafficking in human beings, forced marriage, genital mutilation and other forms of violation of integrity, which particularly affect women and girls, should be brought to the public's attention so that they can be more effectively combated. in fact, increased knowledge about gender-based violence will make it possible to increase society's awareness of this problem. this report, drawn up on the initiative of the european parliament, sets out a series of measures needed to ensure that european women have a decent life. in fact, although violence against women has been a subject of debate for several decades, the international community has not been able to put an end to this extremely destructive form of crime. in summary, i believe that the european union should adopt the necessary legislation to put an end to violence and that member states should draw up national action plans to combat gender-based violence. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because violence against women remains a scourge in europe and the world, despite the campaigns that the international community has developed over several decades. it affects first and foremost the direct victims, but it also affects freedom and democracy itself. i also supported the report because it sets out a number of immediate measures needed to ensure women a decent life and stresses that long-term political, social and legal measures are needed to eliminate gender-based violence.
in writing. - the problem of gender-based violence, in particular violence against women, is a global issue affecting all countries of the world. as there is no international definition of gender-based violence, data are patchy and do not determine the real scale of the problem. some studies estimate that in europe between one fifth and one quarter of the female population have been victims of physical violence at least once during their adult life. there are many forms and methods of violence against women. its historical and structural dimension implies that the measures taken are at european and international level. it is therefore necessary to intervene in all areas of public life to alert and raise awareness, using the six 'p's' - policy, prevention, protection, criminal procedure, provision and partnership. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that any and all forms of violence must be socially and legally punished. european legislation in the form of directives, focus on training, effective protection of victims, cooperation with ngos and the implementation of a european year against violence against women are examples of measures to combat this social scourge, which has a devastating impact on european society.
mr president, the crisis in japan gives more meaning to our collective commitment to create a 2020-20 strategy. however, we continue to expect that both in the context of the strategy and in that of strategy 2020 there will be serious, strong instruments to get europe out of the situation we are in, which is recession, unemployment, insufficient growth and an uncontrolled sovereign debt problem. is it not time for europe to move forward with new european sources of finance and to actually launch growth and cohesion measures based on a different approach to the energy problem and the problem of the sustainability of growth? that's my question.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a special thanks to all those who have taken part in the preparation of this report and, in particular, a special thanks to the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups. this is a report which allows the 2012 budget of the european parliament to be an austerity budget, a budget of restraint, a strict budget. in fact, we have actually cut some 49 million euros from the initial proposal. we have gone further than we had promised in the position we have taken, which was voted and supported here in plenary by a large majority. we said the update would be around inflation. well, we are far from inflation, which means that the 2012 budget is a real decrease, a budget that is also below 20% of heading 5 which is the one that has the money for the institutions of the european union. we have not been able to achieve this target for some years now and we were already over 20%. i would also remind you that the committee of presidents set the target for parliament's budget at 20 to 22%, and this year it is below that figure. but also in the implementation of the budget in 2012, we will want savings using the principles of good management, the principle of economy, the principle of efficiency and also the principle of effectiveness. we want all expenditure to be justified, we want variable expenditure to be subject to a cost-benefit analysis. in this way we will also achieve additional savings in execution. the effort must be on the part of all the institutions in terms of saving and the margin of heading 5, which covers the administrative expenditure of all the institutions, is expected to have a surplus of around eur 380 million in 2012. well, we propose that 100 million euros for administrative expenditure be transferred to the youth area. and why youth? because it is the generation that has the greatest difficulty in terms of access to employment, it is the one whose unemployment rate is twice that of other generations. but there are additional objectives and reasons for choosing the priority 'youth' also for 2012. it was already in 2011 and, in addition, in the european union 2020 strategy which guides the next financial perspective, but which also guides mrs balzani's budget for 2012, youth is present in all five objectives. and furthermore, with regard to school drop-out and education for the generation between 30 and 34 years old, 40 per cent of this generation has university degrees, which makes two of the exclusive objectives. i hope that amendments which are contrary to this proposal will be reconsidered, because we believe that the priority 'youth' should be a priority to be maintained by this parliament.
we meps have the power to decide on our own salary. we also decided on the money to hire people. between 2010 and 2011, we allocated an additional 3,000 euros to each of us per month. we are still the ones who vote on the cost ceilings for our offices, the cost subsidies, the subsidies and even the way we travel. in these matters our power is absolute and that is why i ask myself and i ask you: have we used or abused this power of ours, have we been wise and thoughtful or, on the contrary, have we not known how to resist the power that this power has over us? unfortunately, we have not known, and that is why this debate is not about numbers, this debate is about ethics and politics, it is a debate that qualifies or disqualifies us in the eyes of those who hold us accountable. i am not, by any means, an anti-party populist or one who thinks that members of parliament should work by candlelight. but it is precisely because this demagogy exists in our countries that we have to be extremely demanding when it comes to deciding on the money and the perks that affect us. i am sorry, but it is not normal for members who have always travelled in economy class to have to do so in executive once flights have started to be reimbursed by ticket and not by kilometre. and the same kind of criteria apply to our salaries and expenses. i think they are excessive, in some cases even extravagant, but that is not what is at issue here, what is at issue is whether we have the courage to vote at least for a freeze on these expenditure. i do not understand how there can be members here who do not hesitate to defend in their countries austerity policies and reductions in wages and pensions, but who, when it comes to deciding on their own money, have austerity on their doorstep. this is not serious my friends, this is indecent and very sad.
it is a question, mr göram färm, which is as follows: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission's proposal is not a good one. i don't think we need to go any further.
madam president, there has been a lot of discussion about this report on members' salaries and allowances. i would like to remind you that, unlike the majority, we voted against the current financial status of members of the european parliament, not least because it meant that in some countries the salaries of members of parliament were practically doubled, but above all because it broke a principle which is essential to us, namely that there is a link between the average salary of a country's citizens and the salary of its representatives. the breakdown of this link is yet another symptom of the degradation of democracy, the distance between representatives and those who are represented, the ethical degeneration of a system which, while imposing anti-social policies with widespread cuts on the population, makes its implementers immune to their effects. isn't it time to review this financial statute? i would like to conclude by saying, madam president, that it is also important to make it clear that we are not going to be looking at the amendments to this report which, by advocating savings in parliament, seek to create a more favourable exceptional system for the financing of european parties and european political foundations.
the rapporteur. - first of all, it is important to mention a number: the administrative expenditure of all the european institutions is about 6%. there is no budget of any institution in any member state which has such a small share of an overall budget, of a budget of the european union. the european parliament has new powers. there are 27 member states, the treaty of lisbon will bring 18 new members into force, there is an enlargement to croatia and it is clear that all this comes with costs. however, the truth is that there is a real decrease in this budget by staying well away from inflation. a word about the youth issue. we know that the initiative is the commission's, and that the council must approve it unanimously, but we also know that it was important to give a signal and the budget we are talking about is heading 5 of all administrative expenditure, where there will be some 380 million euros and we are proposing 100. on the question of members' salaries, the european parliament has no competence to update salaries. the council, on a proposal from the commission, shall update the salaries. moreover, the commission's proposal is 0.9% at the moment for the updating of wages. the salaries are also in something called the statute of members and they are indexed to the salary of the judge of the court of justice. parliament is not enough to change the statute for members. the commission is needed and the council's approval is needed. there are members who should read the rules of procedure and who should read the treaty of lisbon, and in particular article 223.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. that regulation was passed in this house, it can be moved in this house, however much there are institutional steps to be taken. and in fact, only wages are indexed to the increases decided by the european council, by governments. only the salary, all other expenses, which are relevant, are not and depend strictly on this house and no one else.
the rapporteur. - the updating of salaries, as mr portas himself confirms, is not a matter for parliament. so it is not appropriate to talk about a wage freeze in a budget of this kind. it would make sense to put forward a proposal, for example, to amend the statute for members. it may also make sense to amend regulation no 31 of the european community and in particular article 64 thereof. what is not sensible is to try to pretend in this house that members are increasing themselves when this cannot be done by law, and that is a way of trying to deceive those who are listening to us and to make demagogy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the external aspect of the common fisheries policy is of particular importance, since it is not possible to meet our needs in fishery products on the basis of our fisheries resources alone. the european fishing industry only provides 40% of our self-sufficiency. in 2009, we imported eur 15.5 billion and exported only eur 2.5 billion in fishery products, which means that without the bilateral agreements with third countries, 3,000 vessels would have been paralysed and 40,000 jobs would have been lost, but the external dimension of the common fisheries policy also has positive aspects for our partners. the european union, unlike many of our international competitors, does not simply trade fish for money. the agreements we conclude are based on the values we defend, both in terms of human rights and respect for the sustainability of resources. under the treaty, the union's exclusive competence for the conservation of biological resources applies to the management of the fishing activities of community fleets in non-community waters. the activities under the external dimension of the common fisheries policy are primarily aimed at extending the principles of sustainable and responsible fishing at international level. the other objectives which currently govern the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, as i have already said, namely maintaining the presence of a community fleet at international level and ensuring that it supplies the community market, are therefore becoming less and less relevant. it is in this context that the report i have drawn up and which we are discussing here today on the fisheries agreement with the union of the comoros should be understood. the agreement provides for the right of access to comorian waters for 70 european vessels in return for a financial contribution of some eur 600 000 per year, about half of which is to be used to develop the fisheries sector in this country, which, as we know, has virtually no other resources and on which some 30 000 of its 800 000 000 inhabitants depend. the agreement includes mechanisms for monitoring catches, hiring local crew and a clause relating to suspension or review in the event of human rights violations. this small country, independent of france since 1975, has already experienced a number of coups d'état. i therefore propose that this agreement be approved and draw attention to the various recommendations i make, in particular those which refer to the need to significantly improve the evaluation of results. i take this opportunity to use the minute i have left to refer to another aspect of another report, the report by mrs grelier, which does not merit my agreement and which, together with other members, is the reason for the amendment. i am referring to the amendment which aims to allow the continuation of fishing for hake and plaice with gillnets in areas 8, 9 and 10 off the portuguese coast, which was prohibited by a commission decision from 1 october 2010 on the grounds that it is affecting certain bycatch shark populations without any scientific study having been carried out to support it. the amendment proposes that this decision be repealed by 2012 so that the portuguese authorities can complete scientific studies that may or may not support this decision. this position is also supported by the economic and social committee, and i therefore call on parliament to approve it, because it is fair.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, this regulation, regulation (ec) no 861/2006, establishes community financial measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea. it is an important financial instrument of the european union in the fisheries sector. together with the european fisheries fund, they are the two main instruments for implementing the common fisheries policy. since the adoption of that regulation in 2006, several elements of related ancillary legislation have been amended, which now justifies that regulation to be amended in order to ensure consistency between all elements of the legislative framework. the commission also considers that in some cases experience has shown the need to ensure that the provisions of the regulation are slightly adapted to better meet the needs. i therefore propose to them a limited scope for this revision, maintaining essentially the objectives and structure of the original regulation. while maintaining this limited scope, we nevertheless considered it appropriate to propose some additional amendments which, although they are specific, could help to bring this legislation into better alignment with recent developments in the sector and its future prospects. the debate before and during the preparation of the report, as well as the opinions and proposals of the shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues, which i would like to highlight and take to heart, and thank everyone for their participation, have contributed greatly to the final result. among the proposed amendments contained in the report, i would stress the reference to the safeguarding of coastal fishing activities, the possibility of financing, in addition to the purchase, also the development by the member states of various technologies affecting the fisheries sector, such as equipment and logical support, computer networks enabling the compilation, management, validation, analysis and development of sampling methods and the exchange of data on fisheries, among others. in the field of aquaculture, i note the possibility of introducing funding for the collection, management and use of environmental data in addition to the socioeconomic data previously provided, thus promoting environmental and health monitoring and monitoring of this sector, in order to contribute to its sustainability. i would like to draw attention to the three additional amendments we are proposing to this report. there is now widespread and growing recognition of the importance of fisheries management based on up-to-date and rigorous scientific knowledge of the state of resources. this is an essential condition for the sustainable development of the activity. for this reason, we propose that the community co-financing rates for the collection, management and use of basic and supplementary scientific data on the state of fisheries resources be increased. it is proposed to raise this ceiling from 50% to 60%. similarly, with regard to control activities, we propose an equal increase in the maximum possible rate of community co-financing, while maintaining the commission's prerogatives, which already exist at present, as regards the possibility of financing certain actions at higher rates, in a framework in which the member states and their control authorities have and should continue to have a central role in the conduct and implementation of control measures in their waters. these changes are the result of an attempt to reach a compromise, taking into account the objections raised by various groups to the maximum of 75% originally envisaged. they are supported by our group, the gue/ngl, and a number of colleagues from other political groups, which shows their importance and the consensus which i believe they have and can achieve in the vote in plenary.
mr president, commissioner, in congratulating the four rapporteurs, let me focus on just two of the reports under discussion. in 2008, the lack of agreement on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the community regulation on the conservation of fishery resources led to the adoption of the current regulation establishing a set of transitional measures initially foreseen for the period from 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. this legislative proposal extends this transitional regime for an additional period of 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013, pending a new technical measures regulation to frame the reformed cfp. in this transitional period, it is important to maintain a regulatory framework for fisheries, to safeguard the interests of fishermen, while keeping in mind the fundamental objective of protecting sustainable fisheries. the current intention not to extend the use of gillnets and to ban them from 1 october 2010 at depths between 200 and 600 metres, without a sound scientific basis, is not a good example of the above. the current ban on this fishing technique, which for decades has been used by a segment of the portuguese artisanal fleet for the sustainable exploitation of species such as drumsticks and cod, is a severe economic and social blow to the sector and fishing communities most dependent on the exploitation of these resources. i therefore ask for your support in getting a proposal passed which my colleagues capoulas santos and joão ferreira and i have tabled in the house and which is intended to guarantee, by 2013, what was law before 1 october 2010. i am also referring to the proposal for a regulation laying down community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea - the ferreira report. it is the most important financial instrument for fisheries support, alongside the eff, providing funding in the fields of international relations, governance, data collection and scientific advice, and monitoring the implementation of the cfp. in this context, i express my full support for the proposals put forward by the rapporteur in the plenary to increase the possibility of community co-financing, up to 60%, in the field of the collection, management and use of basic data, as well as in the field of the collection, management and use of supplementary data. the general and growing recognition of the importance of fisheries management, supported by up-to-date and rigorous scientific knowledge of the state of resources, fully justifies the approval of the rapporteur's proposals and his report as a whole.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to give you some short explanations concerning your remarks. with regard to the discussion on the fisheries partnership agreements, we are now trying, in the framework of our proposal for the reform, to ensure the good implementation of these fisheries agreements for the benefit of the local population. until we have the new proposal for the new generation of fisheries agreements, we have tried to improve the current situation. we are trying to ensure the implementation of the comoros agreement and to do our best for the local population. with regard to the problems mentioned in connection with parliament and the information given to members of parliament about the agreements, the commission has given all information – even restricted information – to members of parliament and this is what we will do in the future. with regard to the technical measures and mrs grelier’s report, i can understand that there were a lot of concerns because we are now prolonging the current regulation. we had to do so, because we have to wait for the implementation of the reform, but i can understand why you are urging us to take some measures in order to have new regulation before the end of 2013. what i can say – as i cannot give you promises i cannot keep – is that we will do our best to accelerate the procedure for a new regulation and also for the implementation of the basic regulation for the reform in order to give the member states some competences regarding technical measures. regarding the next issue – the financial regulation – i hope that we will achieve a first reading approach, because this would be very good for the implementation of the regulation in the future. with regard to the case of greenland, i would like to reiterate that we are here to find a solution on the legal basis of the proposal. for the commission, it is very important to work on the substance because a good relationship with greenland is an absolute political priority for us. i can reiterate that the commission is here to facilitate and to find a compromise with the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, just a few seconds to thank you for the references that have been made and which meet what i myself expected. we know that there are small points in the partnership agreements which need to be corrected. i have noted with appreciation the position of the commissioner, including her personal position on the participation of members of the european parliament, and i hope that her personal position will influence the institutional position of the commission in order to achieve the objective we are seeking.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i too would like to thank you for the comments you have all made and for the appreciable resistance you all are still showing at this hour. i should like to say, in relation to the comments made on the report on financial measures, that the amendments we are proposing do not call into question the consensus reached so far in the trilogue. i think that if we maintain this consensus, we can go a little further and i am grateful for the comments made by several members in support of the proposed amendments. i believe that, as some of my colleagues have said, not adopting these amendments would be an incomprehensible incoherence on the part of a european union which, on the one hand, calls for increased participation and attaches increasing importance to certain areas, but on the other hand resists in allocating the financial resources which are necessary to actually recognise this growing importance. as regards the report on transitional technical measures, i would like to stress - and this has also been made in several speeches - the amendment which i and two other colleagues support, which seeks to eliminate the negative discrimination which has no scientific basis to justify it, and i would stress without scientific basis to justify it, the negative discrimination which is imposed on certain segments of the portuguese artisanal fleet which use gillnets. this fleet has over time demonstrated its ability to use the resources concerned, in particular the sole and the fishery, in a sustainable manner. in the absence of sound scientific reasons to justify this ban, it should not be pursued unless the significant negative economic and social consequences are taken into account. for the same reasons, i should like to say, and to conclude, mr president, that we support the proposals also made by the irish and scottish colleagues on this same report.
the common fisheries policy is a set of measures designed by the european union to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the european fisheries sector. the main priorities for the reform of the common fisheries policy are to make it more effective in ensuring the economic viability of european fleets, the conservation of fish stocks, the link with maritime policy and the supply of quality food to consumers. it is in this context that the measures adopted today by the european parliament, such as the revision of technical measures and the adaptation of existing legislation in terms of the collection of scientific data, fit in. the sustainability of the sector and its competitiveness must exist in a balanced way. fisheries are essential for the economic and social development of coastal communities by contributing to the dynamism of the regions and by encouraging activities in related sectors. for example, in the outermost regions of the union, which make up the european union's largest exclusive economic zone, the fisheries sector plays a key role in the region's economic activity and it is therefore a priority to ensure the sustainability and development of this sector.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, parliament has responded to the commission's request for action to relaunch the single market by the report under debate and vote today. in the group of 19 proposals for which i was rapporteur, on the single market act for europeans, we identified five priorities, using the criteria of tangible and short-term feasibility. first, to increase the mobility of citizens through the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, professional identity cards, the european skills passport and the regular measurement of mobility within the union. secondly, border controls on goods imported from third countries and a multiannual action plan for market surveillance and product safety. thirdly, the application of the regulation on roaming until june 2015, limiting its prices in order to reduce the burden on the public and businesses. fourthly, guaranteeing access to traditional banking services by improving transparency and comparability. fifthly, to remove the obstacles to mobile workers in order to ensure the full portability of their pension rights. if this was an easy and consensual exercise, it was more difficult to agree on measures to combat the fatigue of the single market referred to in the mario monti report and the holistic and concerted approach to respond to the needs and concerns of the citizens so well identified in the grech report, approved by the european parliament in may last year. we certainly recognize that the division of parliament's work into three separate reports is artificial, despite the efforts of the imco committee to give it unity of analysis and action. the three components - business, citizens and government - must move forward simultaneously to achieve a competitive single market with smart, inclusive and sustainable growth that puts europeans at the heart of that market. we also recognise that the proliferation of commission initiatives in this area and europe 2020, industrial policy, innovation europe, risk blurring the core issue of the relaunch, which is to make the idea of the single market not only more friendly but more attractive to europeans. the consensus, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, was more difficult on two points. firstly, in respect of social values and rights, we have been confronted with the reluctance of our colleagues on the right and the liberals to accept the need for permanent safeguards of the social rights of europeans so that they can never be submerged by the logic of the market in all future legislation. we particularly regret that a reference to the revision of the directive on the posting of workers was not accepted as a priority. secondly, in safeguarding social services of general economic interest, the aim was to remove the content of the activities of these services from the pure logic of the market or, at least, to eliminate the possibility of transforming public services of social responsibility into private monopolies or oligopolies in matters such as water supply, urban transport, education, health and social support services. if the introduction of competitive management and internal market mechanisms in such services seems useful, the social values associated with universal access, where the principles of solidarity prevail over the mere logic of the market, must be safeguarded. we are faced here with the reluctance of the parliamentary groups on our right to accept european legislation on this subject, only agreeing to use all the available options which are consensual and based on article 14 and protocol 26 of the treaty. my group abstained in the final vote on the three reports in committee because there was no progress on the social dimension of the single market. however, after the vote in committee, many positive aspects were included which greatly improved the report. consensus was reached through successive rapprochements, with final amendments signed by the main parliamentary groups without victory or defeat. the final result, which honours the imco committee and those who worked on the report, was contributed to by all the parliamentary groups through 266 amendments as well as opinion reports from five committees. all the contributions were helpful. i thank the shadow rapporteurs róża gräfin von thun, jürgen creutzmann, malcolm harbour, emile turunem, kyriacos triantaphyllides and the group coordinators for the productive criticism and the spirit of cooperation which made it possible to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. i am particularly grateful to malcolm harbour for the generous and far-sighted approach he has given to the work of the committee over the past four months.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, i should like to begin by greeting commissioner michel barnier, the council representative and, in particular, my colleagues in the imco committee. on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to stress the importance of the reports we are discussing here today, which are very much in the spirit of the monti report, with the idea of promoting a successful liberal economy, promoting competition and promoting a dynamic and innovative market. these are the ways in which we can make the eu 2020 strategy really come out of the blue, supporting small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the biggest employers in the european economy, supporting businesses in general, creating an idea of sustained growth in the economy, which can be based more and more on the internal market, on a de facto functioning economic government and, at the end of the day, on an idea that is real growth in our economy.
mr president, the reports we are discussing and whose rapporteurs i congratulate, reinforce a series of initiatives aimed at reviving the internal market. i would like to highlight the commitment of the european commission, in particular its commissioner barnier, whom i welcome, and the positive response of this parliament through the committee on consumer protection and the internal market to give priority to competitiveness and market dynamism, a key pillar of the 2020 strategy. citizens and businesses expect effective incentives to bring europe back to economic growth, they expect more employment, they aspire to create more prosperity. and as the commissioner has pointed out, opening up the markets to our companies by removing obstacles and difficulties will give them a very special boost and a unique opportunity to continue their mission as the driving force of our economy. measures aimed at reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden on smes and their access to credit and the services market, the european patent and the recognition of qualifications are essential. the relevance of the development of e-commerce to enhance consumer and business confidence in this type of commerce, the focus on innovation, which is important for strong and sustainable growth, and social entrepreneurship, which is indispensable for creating entrepreneurial and innovative projects for social inclusion. these are some of the measures that will ensure this ambitious project to complete, deepen and take full advantage of the single market for the benefit of european citizens. finally, the important recommendation that member states step up their efforts to improve the transposition and implementation of internal market rules.
mr president, experience has shown that there is no balance between competition and the defence of social and labour rights. what we have today is that in the name of liberalizing the single market, we have the advance of privatization, we have the advance of unemployment that this has created, of more precarious work and, in many cases, of worse services provided to consumers. there are many examples, including in my country, portugal, with the liberalizations that have been made in transport, in the post office, in communications, where services are now worse, employment is lower and work is more precarious. we therefore say that it is important to uphold the social clause in all these cases. the big problem is that it is not being implemented, either by the governments, the commission itself or the council, as the council's deliberations of 25 march made very clear.
the rapporteur. - i would like to begin by thanking you for this debate, which has been so rich. but i did not have time to read the final part of my speech a moment ago, which was basically a thank you to commissioner barnier. but there is no better way of thanking him than by remembering the first sentence of his speech. he said it was time for europe to raise its horizon and not just bring bad news to its citizens. i cannot agree with you more, commissioner, and i want to tell you that parliament has fulfilled its mission in this respect in a timely manner and is available to bring good news to the citizens.
in writing. this proposal simplifies legislation by merging several directives. it clarifies and makes it easier for businesses and consumers to read and adopt the laws. i believe that this will be a way of giving a new impetus to the internal market and i hope that the regions with the weakest economies, due to their scale, remoteness, economic dependence on a small number of products, such as the outermost regions. in general, measures are needed to combat the decline in consumption levels resulting from cross-border purchases and it is important to make this legislation beneficial for regions such as the azores. the more isolated areas have increased interest in seeing many of their products shipped, and their businesses should have access to clear legislation and their consumers to a wider supply and more competitive prices. in the context of harmonized legislation in areas such as pre-contractual information, one of the ways of further increasing confidence in the products of the outermost regions, increasing their presence and consumption in the internal market, will be to strengthen their image with quality certification by promoting specific measures in this regard.
thank you, mr. sassoli. i will certainly comply with your request. before i ask the house to pause for a moment to pay tribute to the memory of these victims, i would like to give the floor to mr tavares, who has asked to speak on the same subject.
mr president, we have received information that a boat from libya carrying refugees has capsized in the mediterranean. we know that there are dead bodies and 150 people are missing. almost a year ago, this parliament approved a co-decision instrument providing for an emergency mechanism in order to resettle refugees who were under armed attack or in crisis situations, such as is the case with the civil war in libya. that instrument has now been sitting on the council’s table for a year. last month we addressed an oral question to the council saying that this concerned people’s lives and was important. and now, sadly, that goes without saying.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to make a simple technical correction which does not alter the report in any way. however, there is a clerical error in article 400 on own revenue, which relates to the proceeds of tax on the salaries, wages and allowances of members of the institutions, officials, other servants and pensioners. the number is set to 48 103 216, the correct number being 63 103 216. this is a simple technical amendment/correction which does not change the report in any way, nor does it have any implication.
in writing. - i approve this report as i agree with the amount recommended to deal with the damage caused by floods in the countries of poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania which totals eur 182.388.893.
in writing. - i agree with the adjusted amount for mobilising the european union solidarity fund, taking into account that several countries, notably poland, slovakia, hungary and romania, exceed the normal threshold of 0.6% of gni in direct losses caused by natural disasters, the threshold required for such mobilisation of funds. i also think it is important that the eu solidarity fund is mobilised as soon as possible after a natural disaster has occurred and that all the related organisational, legislative and executive processes are dealt with efficiently and quickly. i therefore agree with the council's common position on the eu amending budget procedure for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − the european commission proposes to rectify the commission's 2011 budget to meet the need to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the consequences of floods resulting from heavy rainfall in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania, a proposal to be approved by parliament as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. the report under discussion concerns the council's position on draft amending budget no 1/2011 of the european union (eu) for the current year. where unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances arise, the commission has the prerogative to present an amending budget. some eu member states have been hit by natural disasters which destroyed a number of infrastructures with losses of €5.5 billion, in some cases exceeding the threshold of 0.6% of gross national income. this justifies and supports the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) which is intended to finance only infrastructure repair. considering that the existing budgetary appropriations are insufficient to meet the requests, i approve this amending budget the first proposal for the mobilisation of the eusf that the commission has submitted which proposes an increase of eur 182 388 893 in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − this amending budget is intended to respond to the request to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to cover the damage caused by the disasters which affected five member states and also croatia during may and june 2010. we are indeed faced, as defined in the financial regulation, with 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances' and this procedure seems to us both justified and necessary. the amount mobilised to support these countries - eur 182.4 million - represents only about 3% of the total losses, estimated at some eur 5 512.7 million. in recent years, eu member states have been hit by a considerable number of disasters. during the first six years of the eusf's existence, the commission received 62 requests for financial support from 21 different countries. of these, about one third fall into the category of 'large-scale disasters'; and so we have four of these. the eusf is an important instrument to support the remediation of the impacts - often substantial and in many cases lasting - of disasters on people, the environment and the economy. but we also need to make a serious effort to prevent disasters by implementing the recommendations which parliament recently adopted in this regard.
in writing. − this is a report on the amending budget to respond to the request to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to cover the damage caused by the disasters which affected five member states and also croatia during may and june 2010. we are indeed faced, as defined in the financial regulation, with 'unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances' and this procedure seems to us both justified and necessary. the amount mobilised to support these countries - eur 182.4 million - represents only about 3% of the total losses, estimated at some eur 5 512.7 million. in recent years, eu member states have been hit by a considerable number of disasters. during the first six years of the eusf's existence, the commission received 62 requests for financial support from 21 different countries. of these, about a third fall into the category of "large-scale disasters", as do four of those we have now considered. the eusf is an important instrument to support the remediation of the impacts - often substantial and in many cases lasting - of disasters on people, the environment and the economy. it is also important to focus on prevention.
in writing. - the present draft budgetary correction makes perfect sense, taking into account the purpose of the funds mobilised through the solidarity fund, in view of the effects of landslides and severe flooding resulting from heavy rains in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania, after verifying that the applications fulfil the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund to the amount of eur 182,4 million to address the occurrences in those countries. i would, however, like to point out the delay in mobilising this kind of support. the process needs to be made less bureaucratic and more rapid in order to respond in time to future disaster situations.
in writing. − this report relates to draft amending budget no 1/2011 of the general budget for 2011, which is intended to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to the amount of eur 182,4 million in commitment and payment appropriations in order to mitigate the consequences of floods caused by heavy rainfall in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania. the sole purpose of draft amending budget no 1/2011 is to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2011 budget. the reasons i have given fully justify this amending budget, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft amending budget, which is intended to respond to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 182.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations to mitigate the consequences of floods caused by heavy rainfall in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania.
in writing. − i approve this report which aims to allocate eu aid under the european solidarity fund to poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania following the floods in may and june 2010 which affected these territories and their population. the eu must remain a solidarity-based organisation.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state and to countries negotiating its accession in the event of a major natural disaster. this fund complements public funds from member states in emergency situations, in particular for the urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure, temporary accommodation and emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population, as well as for the cleaning up of areas affected by the disaster. poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania were hit by torrential rains in 2010 which caused severe flooding and caused huge damage in their respective countries. in the aftermath of the disasters, the countries concerned requested assistance from the eu solidarity fund. in accordance with the eligibility criteria set out in that regulation, the mobilisation of the eusf was approved, with the aim of reducing the pain, suffering and loss of those affected by those disasters. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - having regard to the significant damage caused by the large-scale natural disasters suffered, in particular to private property, transport networks and cultural heritage sites, and also having regard to the estimated total direct damage exceeding the normal threshold for mobilisation of the solidarity fund, i.e. 0,6% of gni, in all these countries, i agree with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania,
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania following the severe floods that affected these countries in may and june 2010. i would like to reiterate the council's urgency to continue the review of the new solidarity fund regulation, which was approved by the ep, in order to make it more rapid and effective.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in favour of poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania is justified in view of the heavy rains and floods which these countries have suffered and the high damage caused by them. the broad majority support received in the committee responsible for the matter shows the extent of support for this decision. i regret the suffering of the people and hope that the mobilisation of the fund will help to alleviate it and to bring about a quicker and more effective reconstruction of the most affected areas.
in writing. − in may and june 2010, central and eastern europe were hit by a severe storm that caused enormous damage in some member states, including the destruction of public infrastructure, agriculture, road and rail networks, and public and private property. floods in poland affected almost the entire territory with losses exceeding 0,85% of gross national income (gni); in slovakia, it submerged some areas, caused landslides and floods, and caused losses of 0.89% of gni; in hungary, the damage amounts to 0,73% of gni; in romania, they are estimated at over eur 875 million, 0.67% of gni; in croatia, it is over 153 million (0.6% of gni) and in the czech republic, it is 204 million (0.6% of gni). this situation justifies the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund and led to the adoption of the first amending budget for 2011. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's position on the mobilisation of eur 182.388.893 to cover the costs of repairing public infrastructure damaged by the bad weather in the abovementioned member states, taking account of its setting in the amending budget proposal which has already been adopted and the opinion of the committee on regional development.
in writing. the report endorses the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to assist six countries: poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania. these countries have been affected by torrential rains, in some cases unprecedented, major floods, landslides and landslides. in four countries - poland, slovakia, hungary and romania - the catastrophes fall within the category of 'large-scale natural disasters' as defined in the eusf regulation, i.e. the estimated losses are above 0,6% of their gni. we consider that this support is important and necessary and have therefore voted in favour of the report. once again, we cannot help but draw attention to the excessive time that elapses between the occurrence of the disaster, the decision to mobilise the eusf and the actual arrival of community support to the member states and regions affected. in this case, the disasters took place in may and june 2010. only almost a year later did parliament give its assent to the mobilisation of the eusf. now, other procedural requirements will further delay the money's arrival at its destination. for this reason, we have been advocating the need to adapt the rules for mobilising this fund, allowing for a more flexible and timely mobilisation.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, which gives its assent to the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to assist six countries: poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania. countries have been hit by torrential rains, in some cases unprecedented, major floods, landslides and landslides. in four countries - poland, slovakia, hungary and romania - the catastrophes fall within the category of 'large-scale natural disasters' as defined in the eusf regulation, i.e. the estimated losses are above 0,6% of their gni. we consider that this support is important and necessary and have therefore voted in favour of the report. but we cannot help but point out the excessive time that elapses between the disaster, the decision to mobilise the eusf and the actual arrival of community aid to the member states and regions affected. it should be noted that the disasters took place in may and june 2010. only almost a year later did parliament give its assent to the mobilisation of the eusf. now, other procedural requirements will further delay the money's arrival at its destination. we therefore advocate the need to adapt the rules for mobilising this fund, allowing for more flexible and timely mobilisation.
in writing. − the mobilisation of this solidarity instrument, which has already been used in the past, in particular in my country, through the support sent to madeira following the heavy rains that occurred there in february 2010, makes perfect sense in our attempt to minimise the effects that natural disasters always have on the populations of the countries affected by them.
in writing. − the commission proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania on the basis of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (iba). the iia allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. in parallel to this proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, croatia and romania, the commission presented a draft amending budget (a7-0115/2011). it is clear from the report that all applications fulfil the eligibility criteria set out in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, and i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in the amount of eur 105 567 155 for poland, eur 20 430 841 for slovakia, eur 22 485 772 for hungary, eur 5 111 401 for the czech republic, eur 3 825 983 for croatia and eur 24 967 741 for romania, making a total amount of eur 182 388 893 in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − this concerns requests for assistance from poland, slovakia, hungary, the czech republic, romania and croatia (as a candidate country for accession) to deal with the enormous damage caused by the catastrophic floods in these countries in may, june and july 2010. given that all these applications fulfil the eligibility criteria laid down in regulation (ec) no 2012/2000, i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to allocate the amount of eur 182.388.893 to the countries concerned, in the expectation that this support will help to accelerate the process of reconstruction of the affected areas and to alleviate the suffering of their populations.
in writing. - i welcome this report as it advocates responsible fishing in the comoros' fishing zone on the basis of a policy of non-discrimination between the different fleets in the zone and by opening up dialogue for necessary reforms. i also welcome this report as an improvement on the previous one, since it provides for the suspension of the implementation of the protocol in the event of a violation of human rights. however, since the objective of this protocol is to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector by using all the available financial instruments, i would draw attention to the immediate need for a framework which is favourable to increased investment in the sector and to the optimisation of the sector in small-scale fisheries production.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros. i welcome the protocol, as it promotes responsible and sustainable fishing in the territorial waters of the comoros, representing the interests of both parties, as it grants fishing opportunities to eu vessels in return for important sectoral support for the comorian archipelago community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the 'ec-comoros fisheries agreement', as the parties commit themselves to promoting sustainable and responsible fishing in the comoros fishing zone and provides for a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations in the union of the comoros.
in writing. − this protocol to the fisheries agreement between the european community and the union of the comoros, one of the many fisheries partnership agreements to which the union is a co-signatory, expires on 31 december 2010. the new protocol will be concluded for a period of three years (2011-2013) from the entry into force of the council decision on the provisional application of the said protocol and after the expiry of the current protocol. the aim of the proposal is to define the fishing opportunities for eu vessels on the basis of the available surplus and the financial contribution due, separately, for access rights and sectoral support. the new protocol is in line with the interests of both parties and aims to strengthen cooperation in the fisheries sector using the available financial instruments. the need to create a favourable environment for the development of investments in this sector and to optimise the production of small-scale fisheries has been felt. like the rapporteur, i believe that parliament should be allowed to monitor closely the way in which the agreement is being developed and implemented, and that it is for the commission to ensure that this is the case.
in writing. − this report is based on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the conditions under which european union (eu) fishing vessels may engage in fishing activities in the maritime waters of the union of the comoros. the eu has established 'fisheries partnership agreements' with a number of countries over the years, in return for which it provides a certain amount of money, which is mainly used to support national fisheries policies, in particular the protection of resources. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has assumed increased responsibilities in this sector, and we now need to approve the new fisheries agreements. the eu/union of the comoros protocol expired on 31 december 2010 and it is therefore urgently necessary to renew it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − this report supports the new protocol to the eu-comoros fisheries partnership agreement, which will be in force for three years and whose main objective is to define the fishing opportunities allocated to eu vessels and the financial contribution due under access rights and sectoral support. the agreement provides for the right of access to comorian waters for 70 european vessels in exchange for a financial contribution of some eur 600 000 per year, about half of which is to be used to develop the fisheries sector in the country, which has virtually no other resources and on which some 30 000 of its 800 000 inhabitants depend. it is in this area that the implementation of the so-called partnership agreements in this area has most visibly failed, which should be a reason for reflection and policy change. the commission has also proposed that the fishing opportunities for bluefin tuna be increased to 25 000 tonnes by the end of the year. portugal will continue with the five longliners it already had. the main beneficiaries remain france and spain.
in writing. − this new agreement replaces the previous one, which expired on 31 december 2010. this type of agreement allows eu fishing vessels access to the comoros' fishing stocks with the appropriate financial compensation. the great advantage of these types of protocols is that the eu can help these countries develop, in this case with a greater focus on the fisheries sector, which absorbs about 50% of the funds earmarked for counterpart measures. we must bear in mind that in the comoros some 30 000 people depend directly on the fisheries sector, hence the importance of this support.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements between the european community and third countries, known as 'fisheries partnership agreements', has been a common practice under the common fisheries policy/cfp and is central to its external dimension. this proposal for a new protocol to the eu-comoros fisheries partnership agreement is an integral part of the external policy of the cfp and serves the interests of both parties. the report makes the following recommendations which are considered relevant: (ii) the commission shall forward to parliament the conclusions of the meetings and proceedings of the joint committee provided for in article 9 of the agreement, as well as the multiannual sectoral programme referred to in article 7 (c) of the protocol and the results of the annual evaluations thereof; • representatives of the european parliament should be allowed to participate as observers in the meetings and proceedings of the joint committee; • the commission shall present to the european parliament and the council, prior to the renegotiation of the agreement, an analysis of its implementation; • the european parliament and the council should be treated equally as regards the right to be informed promptly and fully, as well as the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of international fisheries agreements and the negotiation of their revision. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this protocol is intended to replace the protocol annexed to the eu-comoros fisheries partnership agreement, which expired on 31 december 2010. the main objective of the new protocol is to define the fishing opportunities available to eu vessels under access rights and sectoral support and to continue cooperation between the european union and the union of the comoros in order to promote the establishment of a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the comorian fishing zone. under the new protocol, the eu's overall annual financial contribution is eur 1 845 750 over the entire three-year period. the development of investments in the fisheries sector is also planned to optimise small-scale fishing. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a new protocol to the eu-comoros fisheries partnership agreement, as it serves the interests of both parties.
in writing. − all the improvements made to the euro-mediterranean agreements have a major impact on the economic and political stability of the countries, contributing to the numerous social and democratic gains that result. i therefore welcome any effort to do so. in view of the incomplete resolution of certain disputes concerning the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and the hashemite kingdom of jordan, i acknowledge the demonstrated ineffectiveness of the system operated through diplomatic channels in this matter. i therefore accept the need for a mechanism to enable resources to be applied in a simple and effective way and therefore support the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of a protocol between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan. the aim of this protocol is to establish a dispute settlement mechanism for the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreement.
in writing. - the euro-mediterranean agreements contain provisions for the liberalisation of trade in goods, but the rules for settling disputes arising from them have been dependent mainly on diplomacy and have been easily blocked by the claimant. in 2006, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with its mediterranean partners to establish trade-related dispute settlement mechanisms based on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the most recent agreements concluded by the european union in the wto. a draft agreement with jordan was initialled on 9 december 2009. i support the establishment of the dispute settlement mechanism, hoping that it will have a deterrent rather than a repressive function and that jordan will be able to resist the instability that has been plaguing the region, while remaining the moderate and responsible partner it has been under the reigns of hussein and abdullah ii.
in writing. − this recommendation is based on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union (eu) and jordan aimed at implementing a dispute settlement mechanism under the euro-mediterranean agreement. resolving trade disputes between countries, usually by diplomatic means, has not always had the desired effect. in the euro-mediterranean context, negotiations were therefore opened between the eu and the mediterranean partners, in particular jordan, and the draft agreement was signed on 9 december 2009 at the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on trade in brussels. i agree with this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament, aware that it will bring about significant improvements in relations between the states in the area of free trade and contribute to the political and economic stability of this region. i therefore welcome the new agreement and hope that, once it has entered into force, there will be no conflict between the eu or its member states and jordan.
in writing. - as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this report, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been achieved through diplomatic channels. the 'alternative' model proposed to us is part of the logic promoted within the wto, which, in the name of supposed effectiveness, seeks to override national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes by respecting the specificity of each country, its right to defend its interests and the interests of its peoples. the settlement of disputes through diplomatic channels guaranteed equal treatment between countries. this mechanism, on the contrary, subverts this principle by favouring the circulation of capital and by placing economic power above political power, the interest of capital above the interest of countries and their peoples. our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified as it stems from the signing of an agreement between the eu, whose legitimacy under the lisbon treaty is questionable (and, in any case, deplorable), and the king abdullah regime which continues to violently repress the emerging peaceful youth movement demanding democratic reforms and freedoms.
in writing. - until now, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been through diplomatic channels. the alternative model proposed to us is part of the logic promoted within the wto, which, in the name of supposed effectiveness, seeks to override national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes by respecting the specificity of each country, its right to defend its interests and the interests of its peoples. the settlement of disputes through diplomatic channels guaranteed equal treatment between countries. on the contrary, the mechanism now proposed subverts this principle by favouring the circulation of capital and by placing economic power above political power, the interest of capital above the interest of countries and their peoples. our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified when it stems from the signing of an agreement between the eu, whose legitimacy under the lisbon treaty is questionable, and the regime of king abdullah, which continues to violently repress the emerging peaceful youth movement demanding democratic reforms and freedoms.
in writing. - the past shows that diplomacy has not been effective in resolving the various disputes that exist. i therefore welcome the creation of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism which will allow appeal procedures to be applied in a simple and effective manner within clearly defined time limits. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that the improvements made to the euro-mediterranean free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region, which is central to the consolidation of a single area of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. the proper application of such a mechanism will also make it possible to increase the security and predictability of our bilateral trade relations and will be a further step towards the creation and smooth functioning of a euro-mediterranean free trade area.
in writing. - the european parliament gives its consent to the creation of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism to allow for the application of appeal procedures in a simple and effective manner, within clearly defined time limits, when there is a need to settle disputes between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan arising from the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreement. until now, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been through diplomatic channels. in practice, this approach has proved ineffective and has led to situations where certain disputes, which could easily be blocked by the party at the origin of the dispute, have remained unresolved. the improvements made to the euro-mediterranean free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this central region and to the consolidation of a single area of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. the proper application of such a mechanism will make it possible to increase the security and predictability of our bilateral trade relations and will represent a further step towards the creation and smooth functioning of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. all these factors motivated my vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and jordan, which aims to establish a dispute settlement mechanism on the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreements. until now, the settlement of disputes in the euro-mediterranean agreements has always been through diplomatic channels, an approach which has proved ineffective in practice, leading to stalemate and deadlock. i hope that the application of this standardised dispute settlement mechanism will make it possible to strengthen the security and predictability of trade relations between the eu and jordan.
in writing. − all the improvements made to the euro-mediterranean agreements have a major impact on the economic and political stability of the countries, contributing to the numerous social and democratic gains that result. i therefore welcome any effort to do so. in view of the incomplete resolution of certain disputes concerning the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and the kingdom of morocco, i acknowledge the demonstrated ineffectiveness of the system operated by diplomatic channels in this matter. i therefore accept the need for a mechanism to enable the application of resources to be made in a simple and effective manner and therefore support the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco establishing a dispute settlement mechanism.
in writing. - like the others, the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco lacked dispute settlement mechanisms, which naturally contributed to its lower reliability and to the lowering of the parties' expectations of fair solutions in cases of dispute. i hope that the mechanism now envisaged will come into force and that it will help to strengthen the confidence of the parties and that the kingdom of morocco will be able to persevere on the path of reforms already initiated by hassan ii and promoted by mohammed vi.
in writing. − this recommendation is based on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union (eu) and morocco aimed at implementing a dispute settlement mechanism under the euro-mediterranean agreement. resolving trade disputes between countries, usually by diplomatic means, has not always had the desired effect. in the euro-mediterranean context, negotiations were therefore opened between the eu and the mediterranean partners, in particular morocco, and the draft agreement was signed on 9 december 2009 at the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on trade in brussels and confirmed on 7 march 2010 at the eu-morocco summit. i agree with this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament, aware that it will bring about significant improvements in relations between the states in the area of free trade and contribute to the political and economic stability of this region. i therefore welcome the new agreement and hope that, once it has entered into force, there will be no conflict between the eu or its member states and morocco.
in writing. - as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this report, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been achieved through diplomatic channels. the 'alternative' model proposed to us is part of the logic promoted within the wto, which, in the name of supposed effectiveness, seeks to override national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes by respecting the specificity of each country, its right to defend its interests and the interests of its peoples. the settlement of disputes through diplomatic channels guaranteed equal treatment between countries. this mechanism, on the contrary, subverts this principle by favouring the circulation of capital and by placing economic power above political power, the interest of capital above the interest of countries and their peoples. our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified as it stems from the signing of a free trade agreement with morocco, a country which continues to occupy the territory of western sahara, to exploit and to obtain dividends on resources which are not its own, in violation of international law and denying the saharawi people their right to self-determination.
in writing. - this report deals with the creation of a dispute settlement mechanism, altering the current situation. as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this report, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been achieved through diplomatic channels. but now the commission is proposing an alternative model, following the logic promoted in the wto, which, in the name of supposed effectiveness, seeks to override national sovereignty, to resolve disputes by respecting the specific nature of each country and its right to defend its interests and those of its peoples. the resolution of disputes by diplomatic means guaranteed equal treatment between countries, but this mechanism, on the contrary, subverts this principle by favouring the movement of capital and by placing economic power above political power, the interest of capital above the interest of countries and their peoples. our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified when it is based on the signing of a free trade agreement with morocco, a country which continues to occupy the territory of western sahara, to exploit and to obtain dividends on resources which are not its own, violating the rights and denying the sarawi people their right to self-determination. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - the past shows that diplomacy has not been effective in resolving the various disputes that exist. i therefore welcome the creation of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism which will allow appeal procedures to be applied in a simple and effective manner within clearly defined time limits. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that the improvements made to the eu-morocco free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region, which is central to the consolidation of a single area of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. moreover, the proper application of such a mechanism makes it possible to enhance the security and predictability of our bilateral trade relations and represents a further step towards the establishment and smooth functioning of an eu-morocco free trade area.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the eu's information and communications infrastructure. the resolution of disputes through diplomatic channels has proved ineffective and has led to situations where certain disputes, being easily blocked by the party at the origin of the dispute, have remained unresolved. the delay in dispute settlement has a negative impact on businesses and end-users on both sides of the mediterranean. the improvements introduced in the euro-mediterranean free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region, which is central to the consolidation of a single area of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms in the latest agreements concluded by the european union and the wto dispute settlement understanding. the commission shall ensure the effective and efficient implementation of the mechanism. in the light of the foregoing, i voted in favour of this resolution approving the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and the kingdom of morocco, which aims to establish a dispute settlement mechanism relating to the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreements. until now, the settlement of disputes in the euro-mediterranean agreements has always been through diplomatic channels, an approach which has proved ineffective in practice, leading to stalemate and deadlock. i hope that the application of this standard dispute settlement mechanism will make it possible to strengthen the security and predictability of trade relations between the eu and the kingdom of morocco.
in writing. − all the improvements made to the euro-mediterranean agreements have a major impact on the economic and political stability of the countries, contributing to the numerous social and democratic gains that result. i therefore welcome any effort to do so. in view of the incomplete resolution of certain disputes concerning the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and the kingdom of egypt, i acknowledge the demonstrated ineffectiveness of the system operated through diplomatic channels in this matter. i therefore accept the need for a mechanism to enable the application of remedies to be carried out in a simple and effective manner and therefore support the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of egypt establishing a dispute settlement mechanism.
in writing. - the current situation in egypt may obscure the need to proceed with the adoption of agreements such as the present one. however, in the turbulence and confusion of times like the one recently experienced in cairo, the egyptian state must take care to assume its full responsibilities once again. these include external relations, in particular with the european union, which is its partner in the euro-mediterranean agreement. if, at the moment, the putative future disputes with the eu are probably the least of egypt's concerns, i believe there is every advantage in adopting mechanisms that allow them to be easily resolved for the benefit of both parties. egypt is umbilically linked to the history of europe and the world. i hope you have a great future, as your past.
in writing. − this recommendation is based on a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union (eu) and the people's republic of egypt aimed at implementing a dispute settlement mechanism. at a time when egypt is taking its first steps towards the implementation of a democratic regime, this protocol takes on a very special meaning. resolving trade disputes between countries, usually by diplomatic means, has not always had the desired effect. therefore, in the euro-mediterranean area, negotiations were opened between the eu and the mediterranean partners, including egypt, and the draft agreement was signed on 27 april 2010 at the eu-egypt association council in luxembourg. i agree with this draft legislative resolution of the european parliament, aware that it will bring about significant improvements in relations between the states in the area of free trade and contribute to the political and economic stability of this region. i therefore welcome the new agreement and hope that after its entry into force there will be no conflict of any kind between the eu or its member states and the arab republic of egypt.
in writing. - as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this report, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been achieved through diplomatic channels. the 'alternative' model proposed to us is part of the logic promoted within the wto, which, in the name of supposed effectiveness, seeks to override national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes by respecting the specificity of each country, its right to defend its interests and the interests of its peoples. the settlement of disputes through diplomatic channels guaranteed equal treatment between countries. this mechanism, on the contrary, subverts this principle by favouring the circulation of capital and by placing economic power above political power, the interest of capital above the interest of countries and their peoples. our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified as it stems from the signing of an agreement between the eu and the regime of dictator mubarak. the egyptian people's rise to democratic transformation, defending their sovereignty against external interference and the regime's collaboration with the interests of imperialism in the region is a positive indicator which we hope will have practical implications in relation to this and other agreements.
in writing. - until now, the settlement of disputes arising from euro-mediterranean agreements has always been through diplomatic channels. the alternative model proposed to us is part of the logic promoted within the wto, which, in the name of supposed effectiveness, seeks to override national sovereignty, the resolution of disputes by respecting the specificity of each country, its right to defend its interests and the interests of its peoples. the resolution of disputes by diplomatic means guaranteed equal treatment between countries, but this mechanism, on the contrary, subverts this principle by favouring the movement of capital and by placing economic power above political power, the interest of capital above the interest of countries and their peoples. our opposition to this mechanism and its implications is all the more justified when it stems from the signing of an agreement between the eu, whose legitimacy under the lisbon treaty is questionable, and the regime of dictator mubarak. the egyptian people's rise to democratic transformation, defending their sovereignty against external interference and the regime's collaboration with the interests of imperialism in the region, is a positive indicator which we hope will have practical implications in relation to this and other agreements.
in writing. - the past shows that diplomacy has not been effective in resolving the various disputes that exist. i therefore welcome the creation of a standardised dispute settlement mechanism which will allow appeal procedures to be applied in a simple and effective manner within clearly defined time limits. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that the improvements made to the eu-egypt free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region, which is central to the consolidation of a single area of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. moreover, the proper application of such a mechanism makes it possible to enhance the security and predictability of our bilateral trade relations and represents a further step towards the establishment and smooth functioning of an eu-egypt free trade area.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us. the resolution of disputes through diplomatic channels has proved ineffective and has led to situations where, as they could easily be blocked by the party at the origin of the dispute, certain disputes remained unresolved. the delay in dispute settlement has a negative impact on businesses and end-users on both sides of the mediterranean. the improvements introduced in the euro-mediterranean free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region, which is central to the consolidation of a single area of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, pluralism, democracy and respect. the proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms in the latest eu agreements and the wto dispute settlement understanding. the commission shall ensure the effective and efficient implementation of the mechanism. in the light of the foregoing, i voted in favour of this resolution approving the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and egypt, which aims to create a dispute settlement mechanism for the trade provisions of the euro-mediterranean agreements. until now, the settlement of disputes in the euro-mediterranean agreements has always been through diplomatic channels, an approach which has proved ineffective in practice, leading to stalemate and deadlock. i hope that the application of this standard dispute settlement mechanism will make it possible to strengthen the security and predictability of trade relations between the eu and egypt.
in writing. - i support this recommendation and welcome the creation of a dispute settlement mechanism which should allow appeal procedures to be carried out in a simple and effective manner within clearly defined time limits. i also agree with the rapporteur's position that the improvements introduced in the euro-mediterranean free trade agreements can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region, which is central to the consolidation of a single area of peace.
in writing. - i welcome this recommendation, stressing that this is an important step towards the continuation of the negotiations between the eu and ukraine, so as to set out a path towards its full integration into the eu in the future.
in writing. − the eu-ukraine relationship has had its ups and downs, sometimes due to the country's greater or lesser strategic proximity to its neighbour russia. on 18 june 2007, the council addressed directives to the commission to negotiate framework agreements with algeria, armenia, azerbaijan, egypt, georgia, israel, jordan, lebanon, moldova, morocco, the palestinian authority, tunisia and ukraine on the general principles governing the participation of those countries in community programmes. in view of the need to clearly stipulate the framework within which ukraine's participation in european programmes will develop, thus contributing to improving its relations with the union, i think it is a good thing that this agreement has been concluded.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy (enp) provides for the gradual opening up of certain european union (eu) programmes to the participation of neighbouring countries with the aim of promoting reforms, modernisation and often democratisation. to this end, on 5 march 2007 the council adopted a 'general approach to allowing the participation of partner countries covered by the european neighbourhood policy in community agencies and programmes'. following this 'approach', the commission has started negotiations on framework agreements with several neighbouring countries, including ukraine, the text of which is now completed and ready for submission to the european parliament for approval, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as this is another step in the pursuit of the objectives which led to the creation of the common market, i approve and welcome the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, on the general principles governing ukraine's participation in union programmes.
in writing. - the conclusion of this protocol raises a number of questions, given the extremely vague nature of the proposal submitted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the benefits are announced without substantiating their origin. we believe that the establishment of agreements with objectives identical to those announced must be based on respect for the sovereignty of countries and their peoples, on mutual interest, on reciprocity, on cooperation taking into account the specific characteristics of each country, with the appreciation of what each can contribute to the agreement from the economic, social and cultural point of view. in view of this report, we can say little more than that it is regrettable that it has given its consent to the establishment of a protocol whose content and implications we are not allowed to fully assess.
(gue/ngl), in writing. - the establishment of this protocol raises a number of questions, given the extremely vague nature of the proposal which has been put before us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. general principles governing participation are mentioned, but it is not specified what they are. benefits are mentioned, but no information is given as to where they might come from. for us, they remain essential benchmarks for the establishment of agreements between sovereign countries, respect for the sovereignty of the country and its peoples, mutual interest, cooperation taking into account the specificities of each country, with the appreciation of what each can contribute to the agreement from the economic, social and cultural point of view. it is regrettable that we voted for a report which gives its consent to the establishment of a protocol without having been informed in the slightest of its content and implications.
in writing. − over the years, eu-ukraine relations have had their ups and downs. these moods are largely dictated by ukraine's closer or lesser rapprochement with its neighbour russia. the protocol will help to create a clear framework for ukraine's participation in the various european programmes, so that in future relations between the eu and ukraine will not have the ups and downs that have been happening.
in writing. - relations between the european union and ukraine have been volatile. on 18 june 2007, the council authorised the commission to negotiate framework agreements with algeria, armenia, azerbaijan, egypt, georgia, israel, jordan, lebanon, moldova, morocco, the palestinian authority, tunisia and ukraine on the general principles governing the participation of those countries in community programmes. it is essential to establish a clear and precise regulatory framework to frame ukraine's participation in european programmes, thus contributing to improving its relations with the union. i therefore voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and ukraine on the general principles for the participation of ukraine in union programmes.
in writing. - i support this report because it is in the interest of the regions concerned to establish a legal basis for trade between the eu and greenland, in this case under the rules of the eu internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'imports of fishery products from greenland', which aims to apply the rules of the internal market to these imports, provided that greenland undertakes to transpose european legislation, in particular on food safety and animal health. i do, however, think that the legal basis of the proposal should be adapted so that the act takes the form of a regulation rather than a council decision.
in writing. − this proposal lays down the general rules for trade between the eu and greenland in fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and by-products thereof, among others. member states shall authorise the import of products from greenland in accordance with union legislation on internal trade. the import of products into the union will be subject to a number of conditions, including the effective transposition and application of the applicable rules laid down in union legislation on animal health and food safety. like the rapporteur, i believe that the proposed act should have been adopted in a codecision procedure and that parliament should exercise its legislative rights in similar cases in the future.
in writing. − greenland's exports of fishery products represent about 82% of total exports, amounting to eur 255 million in 2007. the majority (87%) went to the eu, notably denmark (97%). the committee on legal affairs unanimously adopted an opinion supporting the request that the legal basis for the proposed legislative act be articles 43 (2) and 204 tfeu as well as the sole article of the protocol (no 34) on the special arrangements for greenland instead of the legal basis chosen by the commission - i.e. article 203 tfeu. i therefore agree with the adoption of the resolution, given that the subject is not the content of the draft legislative resolution but a legal question and given the consensus reached.
in writing. the major debate on this report is incidental to the subject which motivates it. in particular, the european parliament's committee on fisheries expressed its disagreement with the legal basis chosen by the commission for the presentation of this proposal - article 203 tfeu, which provides that the council, after consulting the european parliament, is to decide on 'the provisions relating to the modalities and the procedure for the association of the countries and territories with the union'. the committee on fisheries considered that article 43 (2) on the ordinary legislative procedure (co-legislation) and article 204 tfeu, as well as the sole article of the protocol (no 34) on the special arrangements for greenland, should be adopted as the legal basis. this position was supported by the committee on legal affairs in an opinion. on the sidelines of this discussion, there remains the relevant issue which should be the substance of the report: the definition of the rules applicable to imports into the eu of fishery products from greenland. the main exports of fishery products from greenland include shrimp (59%), greenland halibut (23%), cod (9,5%), shoe-fish (1,9%), molluscs (1,4%) and fry (1,3%).
in writing. − with the establishment of the rules on trade between the eu and greenland for fishery products, live bivalve molluscs, echinoderms, tunicates, marine gastropods and their by-products, imports from greenland are now in line with eu legislation. imports of products into the union have to be subject to the applicable rules laid down in union legislation as regards matters of animal health and food safety. that is why it is important that this report be adopted.
in writing. − on 26 april 2010, the european parliament was consulted by the council on this proposal under the consultation procedure provided for in article 203 tfeu. the committee on fisheries and the legal service of the ep expressed serious doubts about the choice of legal basis by the commission - i.e. article 203 tfeu - and instead suggested as the relevant legal basis articles 43 (2) and 204 tfeu as well as the single article of the protocol (no 34) on the special arrangements for greenland. the commission proposal has been amended in accordance with the report which is now being put to the vote, following the recommendations of the committee on legal affairs. i shall vote in favour of this report and i hope that it will be adopted at first reading.
in writing. - endorses the position set out in this report, taking into account the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission and because it is therefore a legislative adaptation which is limited to the mere codification of existing acts without substantive changes;
in writing. - the progress made over the last ten years towards the creation of a common european asylum system has been enormous. however, there are still important differences between national provisions and in their implementation, which must be overcome if we are to establish by 2012 a common area of protection and solidarity based, inter alia, on a common asylum procedure. the main objective is that, irrespective of the member state in which people lodge their asylum application, they should be able to benefit from a high and equivalent level of treatment throughout the union. this is why this thorough revision of the procedures directive is so important, as it should allow for an accessible, fair and effective procedure. the commission's initiative is generally positive, allowing for greater coherence and harmonisation, improved protection standards and improved quality and efficiency of procedures. i commend the rapporteur for her work and commitment, but i am sorry that in some of her proposals she has gone a little too far, which makes it impossible to reach agreement with the council on this initiative which is so urgent and necessary to make the asylum process more efficient and to prevent abuse.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that these measures contribute to the creation of a fair and effective common european asylum system. these measures have a direct impact on the lives of people seeking protection, but they also help to strengthen the european union's capacity to create a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. - the european union and its member states have long been working towards a common european asylum system (ceas). it is easy to understand the complexity and the complexity of attempts to do so, since this matter touches the very heart of state powers in relation to foreigners. the commission has been submitting proposals to parliament and the council to provide appropriate solutions to the problems identified in the meantime. the 'procedures' directive, the recast of which was proposed by the commission on 21 october 2009, is part of this improvement effort. despite the progress made, we are still far from the harmonization that many people want. the strengthening of the harmonization of procedures and guarantees could contribute positively to the clarification of the procedure and the proposal for a revision of the directive is therefore appropriate.
in writing. - after the entry into force of the amsterdam treaty in 1999, the creation of a common european asylum system (ceas) was initiated. in december 2005, with the aim of harmonising the legal procedures of the member states, council directive 2005/85/ec was adopted, laying down the rules for granting and withdrawing 'refugee status'. recent social and political upheavals in several countries, notably in north africa and the middle east, have put issues related to asylum applications in the european union (eu) on the agenda. indeed, refugees, when they cross a border, should not be persecuted or received with suspicion. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal which ends the manichean view of this problem by recognising that the right to asylum is a fundamental right and must be treated fairly and equitably by the member states. i welcome the rapporteur's recommendations to increase the number of legal aid services, since these are vulnerable people who lack effective guarantees, to improve procedures and to provide greater guarantees for applicants, especially minors.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the rules applicable to the granting and withdrawal of international protection in the member states follows the approach for the establishment of a common asylum system (cas). however, it should be understood that this 'harmonisation' at the legal level is moving in parallel with the whole of the european union's foreign policy and the hypocritical positions on immigration and support for refugees. the situation in lampedusa, where thousands of refugees are without adequate protection, is a clear example of this, in addition to the hundreds or thousands who are dying on the boats crossing the mediterranean, as is unfortunately happening once again. we are deeply concerned about the scale of the present problem, particularly in view of what is happening in the serious conflicts of war, with particular emphasis on the situation in libya. we also stress that this proposal for a directive contains aspects which ultimately restrict and condition the right to asylum, in particular by limiting the sovereign right of each member state to decide on its own options and procedures in the field of asylum.
in writing. the proposal for a directive voted today in the european parliament on the rules applicable to the granting and withdrawal of international protection in the member states follows the approach for the establishment of a common asylum system (cas). however, it should be understood that this 'harmonisation' is not legally separate from the whole of the european union's foreign policy, nor from the hypocritical positions on immigration and support for refugees, as in the case of lampedusa, where thousands of refugees are without adequate protection, in addition to the hundreds or thousands who are dying on the boats crossing the mediterranean. we are deeply concerned about the scale of the present problem, particularly in view of what is happening in the serious conflicts of war, with particular emphasis on the situation in libya. we also stress that this proposal for a directive contains aspects which ultimately restrict and condition access to and the right to asylum, particularly as regards the sovereign right of each member state to decide on its own options and procedures in the field of asylum. that is why we are critical of this report.
in writing. - more than 10 years have passed since work began on the creation of a common european asylum system (ceas) following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam in may 1999, on the basis of the principles adopted at the tampere european council. in a first phase of the esaw (1999-2005), the objective was set to harmonise the legal frameworks of the member states on the basis of common minimum standards. there is still a long way to go before genuine harmonization can take place, but we must be aware that only the strengthening and harmonization of procedures and the guarantees that they provide will make it possible to build a common system. in this context, a thorough review of the procedures directive is absolutely necessary to ensure an accessible, fair and effective procedure in the interest of both asylum seekers and member states.
in writing. - since may 1999, following the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, work has begun on the establishment of a common european asylum system (ceas), based on the principles adopted by the tampere european council. the path has seen significant advances. the proposal now put forward for a thorough review and recast of the procedures directive is another step forward. the differences which still exist between national provisions and their application are the reason for the present amendments, which were totally incompatible with a common european asylum system. the common european asylum system is intended to ensure that, in whatever member state the application for asylum is lodged, that person enjoys a high level of treatment equivalent to that of the union as a whole. to this end, i agree with the need to establish a sound european legal framework to create an adequate and effective common european asylum system. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that only the strengthening and harmonization of procedures and the guarantees that they provide will make it possible to build a common system.
in writing. - tourism has become increasingly important to european businesses and citizens in recent times. in this respect, it is important that statistics for the development of more effective tourism policies at european, national, regional and local level are as reliable as possible, as they are useful tools to support the decision-making process in companies and the private sector. i should also stress that it is important that the commission takes these suggestions as they are proposed.
in writing. - tourism is an important sector of the european economy, with some 1.8 million businesses, mainly smes, employing some 9.7 million workers. the tourism industry is estimated to produce more than 5% of the eu's gdp. with the presentation of communication com ((2010) 352), the commission intends to define a new policy framework for tourism in europe, seeking to strengthen this sector through coordinated action at eu level that complements member states' initiatives. thus, for the new policy framework to be successful, sound decisions must be taken based on reliable and comparable statistical data. this report, which has been supported by me, recognises the important role of statistics in developing more effective tourism policies at european, national, regional and local level, and is a useful tool to support the decision-making process. it also supports the establishment of a common regulatory framework for the systematic production of european statistics on tourism, through the collection, compilation, processing and transmission of harmonised european statistics on tourism supply and demand by the member states.
in writing. − in several member states, such as my own, portugal, the tourism industry is an important part of the economy and has an intrinsic potential to generate new sources of employment and economic growth. tourism is the third largest european socioeconomic activity, producing over 5% of the eu's gdp. it continues to be the world's most popular tourist destination, accounting for about 40% of global arrivals in 2008. the eu intends to define a new policy framework for tourism with the aim of strengthening this sector so that it can meet the major challenges of climate change, demographic trends, globalisation, etc. through coordinated action that complements member states' initiatives. the compilation of data on tourism allows for a better knowledge of the volume of this sector, its characteristics, the profile of tourists, the various patterns of travel, which contributes not only to the correct formulation of sector policies and business strategies, but also to a better understanding of the socioeconomic implications of this sector. i therefore support the updating and optimisation of the current statistical system so that we can have reliable and comparable statistical data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that statistics on tourism contribute to the development of more effective policies and are a useful tool to support decision-making in business and the private sector. this new regulation will undoubtedly improve the timeliness, comparability and completeness of tourism statistics as well as the efficiency of data processing.
in writing. − according to the report, europe remains the world's number one tourist destination, with tourism being the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, with some 1.8 million businesses, mainly smes, 9.7 million jobs and a production equivalent to 5% of gdp. it is therefore an activity which must be properly monitored, regulated and promoted, especially in the specific context of economic recovery and the need to increase the production of tradable goods. this is true for the eu as a whole, but it is particularly important for portugal, which has long been committed to tourism as a particularly dynamic economic activity with a lot of potential for growth. in this context, and in view of the importance of a thorough and realistic knowledge of the reality of tourism in the development of appropriate policies, the commission's proposal to update and optimise the legal framework for european tourism statistics which we are voting on today is important.
in writing. − this report focuses on an area that is crucial for the future of the european union (eu): tourism. despite the global crisis in 2010, according to the world tourism organization (unwto), the sector grew by 2%, despite political upheavals in various parts of the world. at european level, in addition to growing at a steady pace, tourism comprises 1.8 million businesses - the vast majority smes - and provides 9.7 million jobs, being the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, producing more than 5% of gross domestic product (gdp). in addition, europe is the world's leading tourist destination with 40% of tourist arrivals. this is an essential activity for the achievement of the objectives set out in the europa2020 strategy. this regulation updates the existing legislation, especially as regards the collection and processing of data on accommodation and accessibility for people with reduced mobility - which are essential in preparing the new european tourism strategy. i welcome the adoption of this proposal, which, in addition to creating a pilot study programme to be carried out by the member states, will include data on rural tourism and agro-tourism (more than 50 000 accommodation facilities are available) managed mainly by smes.
in writing. the usefulness of statistical information depends on its comparability in time and space, which implies the adoption of a set of common definitions and nomenclatures. in the case of tourism, the sector involves concepts and definitions which have long remained unclear, making it difficult to obtain reliable and credible information. it is therefore necessary to clarify and harmonise criteria and definitions to obtain comparable data. the existence of these statistics is of great importance in determining the direct and indirect impacts of tourism on the economy, supporting the planning and development of new tourism options or the readaptation of existing ones. the proposal in the report aims to improve the timeliness, comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted, as well as the efficiency of data processing, including better data validation. it also aims to adapt the legal framework to reflect the latest trends in the sector by introducing new variables, for example on day trips. for these reasons we voted in favour.
in writing. - we know that statistical information is important, although its usefulness depends on its comparability in time and space, which implies the adoption of a set of common definitions and nomenclatures. in the case of tourism, the sector involves concepts and definitions which have long remained unclear, making it difficult to obtain reliable and credible information. it is therefore necessary to clarify and harmonise criteria and definitions to obtain comparable data. the existence of these statistics is of great importance in determining the direct and indirect impacts of tourism on the economy, supporting the planning and development of new tourism options or the readaptation of existing ones. the proposal in the report aims to improve the comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted and the efficiency of data processing, including better validation. it also aims to adapt the legal framework to reflect the latest trends in the sector by introducing new variables, for example on day-trip travel. for these reasons we have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - tourism is undoubtedly one of the economic sectors with the greatest potential for development. in recent decades, the importance of tourism for european businesses and citizens has been growing at a steady pace. with some 1.8 million enterprises, mainly smes, employing some 5.2% of the total workforce (approximately 9.7 million jobs), it is estimated that the european tourism industry produces more than 5% of the eu's gdp. tourism is therefore the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu. moreover, the eu remains the world's number one tourist destination, with 370 million tourist arrivals in 2008 - 40% of worldwide arrivals, but the potential for growth remains.
in writing. − tourism is an economically important activity in the eu and mechanisms that contribute to its promotion are desirable and should be encouraged. statistics play an important role in the development of more effective tourism policies at european, national, regional and local level. they are in fact a useful tool to support decision-making in business and the private sector. this regulation aims to establish a common regulatory framework for the systematic production of european statistics on tourism through the collection, compilation, processing and transmission of harmonised european statistics on tourism supply and demand by member states. this proposal should improve the timeliness, comparability and completeness of the statistics transmitted and the efficiency of data processing, including better data validation. this regulation also adapts the legal framework to reflect recent trends in the tourism industry by introducing new variables, for example on day trips. these are the reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - tourism is the third most important socioeconomic activity in the eu, which means that its economic dimension, generating jobs, is essential for the member states. moreover, its private sector not only strengthens europe's image in the world but also promotes european citizenship. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of passengers and the number of flights. this new legal framework allows the eu to support, coordinate and complement the action of the member states and to reduce the administrative burden. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour of this report, as i consider it essential to provide all those involved in the tourism sector with reliable statistical data in order to adapt to the challenges facing european tourism. european coordination, with the effective participation of the member states, is essential for the implementation of this system and for a concrete assessment of the competitiveness of the tourism industry. a knowledge of the volume of this sector, its characteristics, the profile of tourists, the expenditure of the sector and the benefits and/or problems for national economies should be part of this broad study.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because it contains important measures concerning the increase in co-financing rates for actions in the fields of international relations, governance, the collection of data and scientific advice and the monitoring and implementation of the common fisheries policy. since scientific knowledge is essential for the sustainable development of the sector, the increase in co-financing rates for the collection, management and use of databases is an added value. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the water control measures carried out by the control authorities of the member states will only be successful if they are based on more efficient and less costly technology and control systems. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to take action.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 861/2006 establishes community financial measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea and is an important financial instrument of the european union in the fisheries sector. since the adoption of this regulation, several elements of the legislation have evolved. the commission proposes to amend it in order to ensure consistency between all the elements of the legislative framework and also to clarify the scope of some of the actions financed. i supported this report because it proposes some amendments to the commission proposal which will help to clarify the legislation, taking into account the recent developments in the fisheries sector and its future prospects, in particular: the possibility of increasing community co-financing (from 50% to 60%), which is an added value for the development of the fisheries sector in portugal; the increasing importance attached to aquaculture, which justifies the introduction of the possibility of collecting, managing and using environmental data, in addition to socioeconomic data, also in this field.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i regret, however, that the proposal to increase the co-financing rates for the collection, management and use of supplementary data to 60% of eligible expenditure was not adopted.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 861/2006 of 22 may 2006, which the commission proposes to amend, is the one establishing community financial measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy and in the area of the law of the sea, providing for funding in the following areas: international relations, governance, the collection of data and scientific advice and the monitoring and implementation of the cfp. this revision does not imply any fundamental change in the objectives, the type of actions financed, the architecture and the financial allocation. the rapporteur believes that it is important, however, to present amendments which make the legislation more in line with recent trends in the sector and its future prospects (in particular with regard to fisheries management based on scientific knowledge of the state of fisheries resources and the focus on aquaculture). in this connection, the proposal is made to increase the co-financing rates foreseen in the field of basic data collection, management and use, which i support from a purely national perspective of support for fishing activity in our country.
in writing. the report is based on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 861/2006 of 22 may 2006 laying down financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the law of the sea. since 2006, several aspects of the abovementioned regulation have evolved and are outdated, and therefore it is necessary to amend it. this proposal is based on the existing regulation and aims to safeguard coastal activities by financing the modernisation of the sector, in particular equipment and computerisation. the amendments tabled by the commission have been taken into account, as have other contributions which significantly improve the previous regulation, in particular the financing of investment, which is essential to have scientific, accurate and up-to-date data to enable us to take the measures required in each situation on the basis of sound evidence, and the increase in co-financing rates. i therefore support this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. - we welcome the fact that parliament has approved the amendments to the commission proposal for a regulation contained in the report. these amendments will, inter alia, make it possible for member states to finance the development of various technologies affecting the fisheries sector, such as equipment and software or computer networks, which enable the compilation, management, validation, analysis, development of sampling methods and exchange of fisheries data. a new financing option is for studies on the dependence of fisheries products on imports. in the field of aquaculture, it will also be possible to finance the collection, management and use of environmental data, promoting environmental and health monitoring and monitoring of the sector in order to contribute to its sustainability. but we cannot but regret the rejection of the amendments which sought to increase (albeit modestly) the maximum rate of community co-financing to the member states in the fields of the collection, management and use of scientific data on the state of fisheries resources and in the field of control. this shows the inconsistency of an eu which, on the one hand, has exceeded the competences of the member states in this area but, on the other hand, refuses to increase the financial resources devoted to these activities.
in writing. - this report amended regulation (ec) no 861/2006 laying down community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the law of the sea. it is an important financial instrument of the european union in the fisheries sector. together with the european fisheries fund (eff), they are the two main instruments for implementing the cfp. the commission also considers that in some cases experience has shown the need to ensure that the provisions of the regulation are slightly adapted to better meet the needs. it therefore proposes a limited scope for this revision, while maintaining, in essence, the objectives and structure of the original regulation. the rapporteur, mr joão ferreira, a communist, felt it was appropriate to propose some additional amendments which, although they were ad hoc, could help to bring this legislation into line with recent developments in the sector and its future prospects. however, i regret that not all of the proposals you have put forward have been accepted, in particular the possibility of increasing the community co-financing rates foreseen for the collection, management and use of scientific data (basic and supplementary) on the state of fisheries resources, including the proposal to raise this ceiling from 50% to 60%, as well as for monitoring activities.
in writing. − this regulation (ec) no 861/2006 establishes community financial measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the law of the sea and constitutes an important financial instrument of the european union in the fisheries sector. together with the european fisheries fund (eff), they are the two main instruments for implementing the cfp. this regulation provides for funding in the following areas: international relations, governance, the collection of data and scientific advice, and the monitoring and implementation of the cfp. i regret, however, that i did not approve the increase in the level of possible co-financing, in particular for measures to control fishing activities and the collection, management and use of data, up to 60% of eligible expenditure, because approval of this increase would be beneficial for the fisheries sector in my country.
in writing. the document voted on today aims to adapt the financial measures for the implementation of the fisheries policy to the evolution of the legislative framework, the development of current needs and legal clarification of the actions to be carried out, in particular those listed in decision 2000/7439/ec, which have not been taken up by the text of regulation no 861/2006. as regards the collection of data, parliament's proposal considers it essential that the scope be extended to include their management and the conditions for their use. it is also essential to facilitate the conclusion of public contracts with international bodies and to provide for the obligation to have detailed information for the implementation of joint projects. it would be desirable to increase the level of possible co-financing, in particular for measures to control fishing activities and the collection, management and use of data, up to 60% of eligible expenditure. equally important is aquaculture activity, whose data should reflect not only socioeconomic but also environmental aspects. in addition, new techniques are increasingly needed here, which requires constant adaptation and modernisation of existing techniques.
in writing. - i approve this report. i consider the subject of this report to be important, which seeks to extend the transitional arrangements for a further 18 months until 1 january 2013, so that the new package of technical measures can be outlined as part of the continuation of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − as no agreement could be reached in 2008 on the draft regulation to simplify and clarify the community regulation on the conservation of fishery resources, a regulation was adopted establishing a set of transitional measures for the period 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. this report, which i have supported, aims to extend this transitional period until january 2013 in order to define a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy. the commission is also asked to take the initiative, during this new extension period of the current regulation, to carry out, together with the parties concerned, an assessment of the impact of the measures currently in force on the vessels applying them and on the ecosystems covered. the results of this evaluation should be taken into account in the preparation of the new proposal for a regulation. it is equally important that the future commission proposal on technical measures clearly establishes the powers of the council and parliament in accordance with the codecision procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'fisheries - transitional technical measures'. i regret, however, that the proposal to repeal the commission decision banning fishing for cod and plaice with gillnets off the portuguese coast has been rejected without any scientific studies to support it.
in writing. − in 2008, the commission presented a proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures which was intended to replace an earlier regulation. such a proposal was not approved and regulation (ec) no 1288/2009 was adopted for reasons of legal certainty in order to maintain the proper conservation and management of marine resources, which established transitional measures from 1 january until the end of june 2011. in the light of the obligations arising from the lisbon treaty, in 2010 the commission withdrew its proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures. the basic principles on technical measures should now be incorporated into a new basic regulation on the reform of the common fisheries policy, with a proposal to this effect expected in 2011. as there is currently no other legislation in force, it is proposed that the validity of that regulation be extended for a further period of 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013. in view of the arguments of legal certainty and protection which have been put forward, i believe that this extension deserves support. i hope that this additional time will allow us to assess the impact of the measures in force.
in writing. - the fisheries sector is fundamental to the european union, not only for food reasons but also for environmental reasons, as aquatic ecosystems are at stake. the european parliament, aware of the importance of this sector, has often debated this matter. in 2009, it adopted resolution a&-0206/2009 on the need to conserve fisheries resources in the atlantic ocean and the north sea. the current regulation, adopted in 2008, establishes a set of transitional measures which were intended to apply until june 2011, the date foreseen for the entry into force of a new legal framework under the common fisheries policy. however, the commission was not able to submit a proposal for a regulation. the commission therefore requests an extension of the current regulation until 1 january 2013, by which time it expects the eu to have legislation in place, to be adopted in accordance with the co-decision procedure laid down by the lisbon treaty, by the council and by the parliament and to be supported by up-to-date scientific studies, so that it does not jeopardise the planet's marine resources. in this respect, i agree that the current regulation should remain in force until 1 january 2013.
in writing. − the existence of appropriate technical measures is a necessary instrument for sustainable exploitation and good conservation of fisheries resources. this transitional technical measures regulation is the result of the lack of agreement in 2008 on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the community regulation on the conservation of fisheries resources. it covered the period from 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. it is now proposed to extend it for an additional period of 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013, in order to define a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, pending a commission proposal in the course of 2011. we believe that this extension should not be made without correcting shortcomings and problems raised by the current legislation. unfortunately, the rapporteur and the majority of parliament, following the commission's position, have prevented this. this is the case of the discrimination - without any scientific basis to justify it - against a segment of the portuguese artisanal fleet, which is directed to the fishing of sole and cod, with gillnets, which the current regulation provides for the prohibition of, which will have negative consequences at economic and social level, which could and should be avoided.
in writing. − this transitional technical measures regulation has resulted from the lack of agreement in 2008 on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the community regulation on the conservation of fisheries resources. it covered the period from 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. it is now proposed to extend it for an additional period of 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013, in order to define a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, pending a commission proposal in the course of 2011. we believe that this extension should not be made without correcting shortcomings and problems raised by the current legislation. unfortunately, the rapporteur and the majority of parliament, following the commission's position, have prevented this. this is the case of the discrimination - without any scientific basis to justify it - against a segment of the portuguese artisanal fleet, which is directed to the fishing of sole and cod, with gillnets, which the current regulation provides for the prohibition of, which will have negative consequences at economic and social level, which could and should be avoided.
in writing. − in 2008, the lack of agreement on a draft regulation to simplify and clarify the community regulation on the conservation of fisheries resources led to the adoption of a regulation introducing a set of transitional measures initially planned for the period from 1 january 2010 to 30 june 2011. with this legislative proposal we intend to extend this transitional regime for an additional period of 18 months, i.e. until 1 january 2013, in order to define a new set of technical measures in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy, pending a commission proposal in the course of 2011. the commission should therefore use the new extension period of the current regulation to carry out with the participation of stakeholders an assessment of the impact of the measures currently in force on the vessels applying them and on the ecosystems covered.
in writing. − the proposal put to the european parliament's plenary today aims to extend the transitional regime established in 2008 for the conservation of fisheries resources. as the legislation in question expires on 30 june 2011, this set of measures should be extended for a further period of 18 months, i.e. until january 2013. the european commission will therefore have to use the new extension period to promote an impact assessment of the existing measures, which should be taken into account in the preparation of the new proposal, due to be submitted in the course of 2011, for the period after 1 january 2013. as regards the review of the technical measures provided for in the legislation, it is essential to extend until 31 december 2012 the use of gillnets offshore at depths between 200 and 600 metres, which will allow vessels to continue to catch on a sustainable basis certain resources of high economic importance to the portuguese national fisheries, such as the redfish.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the progress made in the negotiations, in particular with regard to an increase in the ep budget of 2.3% compared to 2011, the funding of the kad building in luxembourg will be limited and the withdrawal of the value added assessment unit which provided for additional reductions of the order of 13.7 million. the financing of the needs related to the enlargement with the accession of croatia and the adjustments to the treaty of lisbon will be integrated in an amending letter or budget. however, i would point out that in the light of the economic and financial difficulties of the member states and taking into account the 2012 budgetary guidelines adopted by the ep, the ep has expressed the need to maintain budgetary discipline in its own budget by staying below the inflation rate of the 27 member states and with the conviction that real savings will ensure its proper and efficient functioning. i think, however, that in the context of the austerity the eu is experiencing, it would also be important to moderate expenditure with some expenditure by meps.
in writing. - i support the report by mr josé manuel fernandes on parliament's budget and congratulate him on the extraordinary work he has done. i would stress the effort of restraint and austerity which correspond to the priorities i had set. with the increase in the powers of the ep (lisbon treaty) more operating expenses would be reasonable. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the budget approved was below 20% of heading 5, which had not happened for several years. the rapporteur also had to combat disinformation and demagoguery. some in bad faith have tried to suggest that he was raising the salaries of members of parliament. however, parliament has no competence in this area (the salary of members - 38.5% of the salary of a judge at the court of justice - is set by the council and the amount of other allowances is set by the bureau and not by parliament and cannot exceed the inflation published by eurostat) and the budget line for allowances and fees (which contains the money for members' salaries) has only a 0.55% percentage increase compared to 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, noting that the forecast increase of 2.3% in the european parliament (ep) budget is lower than the forecast inflation of 2.8% for the eu, which leads to an actual decrease of 0.5% for 2012. i would like to denounce the demagogy surrounding three amendments which sought to change the rules on the travel of meps from their countries of residence to/from the ep, which i voted against. as i do not like to be absent from my responsibilities, i shall vote for it, even though the amendments were so capricious that i would very likely be included in the many exceptions they opened up. i also regret the attitude of some members who, knowing in advance that a certain proposal would not be adopted, have placed the burden of 'politically incorrectness' on others and those who 'preferred' not to take part in the votes on the three amendments in question (taking part in all the votes before/after these...). i would also remind you that under the current statute no one is obliged to travel in a business car. it is in this class, however, that i see my colleagues from all the parties every week, with a few rare exceptions (not individual members but on some sporadic trips), including on the flight to portugal which followed that vote!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2012 - section i - parliament'. however, i regret that in the current crisis parliament has failed to set an example and has rejected the proposals for the revision of the current system of members' allowances and the proposals not to update the allowances and fees in 2012.
in writing. − the 2012 budget is being discussed at a time when member states, many of them, are facing extreme budgetary restraint and austerity needs, which is why the budget for the functioning of this parliament, as the rapporteur mentions, should 'respond with the required quality and efficiency and use rigorous budgetary management processes in order to achieve savings'. the citizens of europe would not understand if, when they are asked to make sacrifices in their own countries, the european union failed to show restraint and efficiency in the management of its own resources. the citizens are asking us to manage the resources allocated to us properly and to save wherever possible. the report by my colleague josé manuel fernandes gives some good hints in this regard. for reasons of ethics, especially when we are asking european citizens, and in particular the portuguese, to make sacrifices, i have decided not to vote for any amendment affecting my remuneration or the exercise of my duties as a member of parliament.
in writing. - despite the fact that the crisis of capitalism is hitting hard at workers and the general population and that austerity measures are geared towards those who have the least, the community budgets have not reflected the need to change the direction of the policies in the eu which are responsible for this crisis. this report does not concern the guidelines for the general budget of the eu. however, it cannot be disconnected from the context in which we live. in addition to the considerations we made during the debate in plenary, we are concerned that the framework proposed will facilitate job insecurity, worsening the situation of workers who after decades of service are still without a permanent employment contract, as well as the 'transfer' of many workers to temporary work companies, so we do not see any amendment proposals which, by advocating savings in parliament, open up space for insecurity.
in writing. - this report on the european parliament's budget reflects the contradictions affecting most of the political forces represented here. although they are not the guidelines for the budget of the european union, they are not detached from the basic policies that drive their destinies. section i - parliament - of the 2012 estimate, although containing adjustments to parliament's expenditure by reducing the external provision of services and other minor expenditure, but also increasing the subsidy and travel items, reflects an increase of 2,3% compared to the same section of the 2011 budget. we are concerned that the proposed framework will facilitate job insecurity, worsening the situation of workers who, after decades of service, are still without a permanent employment contract, in addition to the transfer of workers to temporary work companies, so we do not see ourselves in amendment proposals which, by advocating savings in parliament, make room for insecurity and seek to favour the financing of european parties and european political foundations, although we think that members should set an example by changing their financial statute, a statute against which we voted by substantially increasing their salaries. for all these reasons we voted against this report.
in writing. − the crisis that has struck the world and the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states have led parliament to show responsibility and budgetary restraint in the 2012 financial year, without calling into question the ambitious objectives it has set itself, including that of legislative excellence. this budget of the european parliament for next year will have an increase below the rate of inflation. the budget is expected to amount to eur 1.725 billion, an increase of 2.3% in 2012, below the eu-27 inflation rate of 2.8%. it is this kind of concern that must always be present when discussing community budgets so that all the citizens of the member states can see themselves in european policies and have their contributions properly implemented.
in writing. - i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done. it is always a demanding subject, but in the times of containment we live in it is becoming especially demanding. the economic and budgetary conditions in which all member states are now found are not unknown to this parliament, which should show responsibility and budgetary restraint in the 2012 financial year while maintaining the quality of its work. the budget was cut in real terms by 2,3% compared to the 2011 budget and by a total cut of eur 48,9 million compared to the draft estimates. this is due in particular to cuts in expenditure on buildings. i would like to stress the concern of the rapporteur, who follows the concern of the group, to focus on young people. to this end, the rapporteur proposes a reduction of the ceiling of heading 5 of the 2012 multiannual financial framework by eur 100 million and a corresponding increase of other headings in favour of youth. this is a balanced report which takes due account of the budgetary constraints needed in times of crisis and the maintenance of the conditions for profitable and quality work. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, because i believe that in the current crisis context, the european parliament and the other eu institutions must act with responsibility and restraint, using rigorous budgetary management processes to promote the optimisation of resources and to achieve savings. i would also like to publicly express my appreciation for the excellent work done by the rapporteur, my colleague mr josé manuel fernandes.
in writing. − in the face of difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states, parliament should show responsibility and budgetary restraint in the 2012 financial year, without, however, undermining the objective of legislative excellence. the budget in question was cut in real terms by 2,3% compared to the 2011 budget and by a total cut of eur 48,9 million compared to the draft estimates. this is due in particular to cuts in expenditure on buildings and in costs for the 18 new meps and the enlargement to croatia. these last two items will be the subject of an amending budget at a later date. the epp group believes that the focus on young people is a key priority at the moment. the rapporteur therefore proposes a reduction of the ceiling of heading 5 of the 2012 multiannual financial framework by eur 100 million and a corresponding increase of other headings in favour of youth. finally, i would like to emphasize that the elimination of the budget line for the house of european history will not affect its viability, since the amount will be transferred to another heading, in accordance with a transparent procedure approved by the budgetary authority.
in writing. − i approve this resolution which aims to amend regulation no 1924/2006 of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health complaints made about food which were only authorised by the commission under that regulation. i agree with this resolution because it concerns a health complaint on the permitted list of complaints for the use of infant milk from 6 months of age and above, since dha has detected a type of acid added to milk formula.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on 'authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods for children's development and health', as there is no recognised scientific evidence to show that synthesised dha added to milk powder and other infant foods, and which is different from the dha found in breast milk, contributes to the visual development of children. i therefore consider that until conclusive studies are available the nutrition claim should not be authorised.
in writing. - the issue of possible acceptable claims in food labelling (or even advertising) is of the utmost importance because it can lead to the creation of false expectations or to the adoption of behaviour that has no scientific support. in this regard, any claim to be added to the list of permitted claims should be weighted according to the latest scientific state of the art so that it is duly substantiated, as the commission maintains that this is the case here, where it is considered proven that docosahexaenoic acid ('dha') contributes to normal visual development in children up to 12 months of age.
in writing. the european parliament resolution concerns the draft regulation submitted by the commission on the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to the reduction of disease risk or to children's development and health. the food of citizens in general and of children in particular must be given special attention by all european bodies, because it is a question of healthy growth and quality of life for people. the promotion of foods through claims may mislead consumers and violate scientifically advised claims. i therefore vote against this draft regulation, given the arguments put forward by the rapporteur on a matter as sensitive as it is important, because i believe that it does not fully protect the health of citizens, especially children.
in writing. the document opposes the adoption of the draft regulation proposed by the commission on 'the authorisation and refusal of authorisation of certain health claims made on foods and referring to the reduction of disease risk or to children's development and health', as it is not compatible with the aim and content of the regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods. this is mainly due to problems resulting from the addition of dha to media other than breast milk, where it contributes to normal visual development in children up to 12 months of age. but the generally accepted scientific evidence demonstrates that the same synthesized dha added to formula and other infant foods is unclear. this means that there is no clear scientific consensus on the effect of dha-enriched formulas on infants, as they are used in formula and other infant foods in a biological environment other than breast milk. that is why we are opposed to the adoption of the draft commission regulation.
in writing. - i approve of this report as the increasingly globalised world requires the eu as a whole to make reproductive investment choices, agreeing with the position set out in this report that the commission and the council should start negotiating to start investments with third countries such as canada, india and china. i therefore consider it crucial that the ep ensures responsible behaviour by european investors abroad, while protecting the eu's rights to regulate in accordance with our public interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposed investment policy will meet the expectations of both investors and the states concerned, contributing to the strengthening of the competitiveness of the eu and its businesses. a coordinated european policy on international investment could have a major impact on job creation, not only in the eu but also in developing countries.
in writing. − according to articles 206 and 207 tfeu, foreign direct investment (fdi) is an exclusive competence of the eu. in addition to the management of bilateral investment treaties concluded, the union is required to define a future european investment policy that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary countries and at the same time respects its external action objectives. the protection of investors should remain the first priority of investment agreements, but the commission is asked to present a clear definition of the investments to be protected. future agreements should be based on best practices drawn from member states' experience and take into account the needs of smes.
in writing. - this report addresses the issue of the future european policy on international investment. since the founding of the european union (eu), many bilateral investment treaties (bits) have been signed by member states (about 3,000 since 1959!). with the entry into force of the treaty on the financing of the european union, this matter has passed into the exclusive domain of the eu and is now part of the preparation of the future european investment policy, which needs to be discussed very carefully. this is a very important issue, because we are at a turning point and facing two challenges: to equip the eu with the tools to enable companies abroad to fulfil their investment programmes, and at the same time to keep europe as a leader in global investment. we live in a time of aggressive business activity and we need to be careful in choosing our business partners. i therefore agree with the rapporteur on this document that the prerogatives of the ep should be respected and that the negotiating procedures should be sent in time to avoid unnecessary delays and serious disruptions in the eu's relationship with these countries.
in writing. − foreign direct investment (fdi) is defined as 'long-term investments which allow the acquisition of at least 10% of the capital/shares of a company and give the investor control over the management of that company'. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, fdi became the exclusive competence of the eu, whose main tasks are to manage the existing bilateral investment treaties (bits) and to define a european investment policy 'that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states'. it is on the basis of these new powers that the implementation of a common investment policy is advocated. it is very questionable, to say the least, whether fdi brings the advertised value-adds to the 'beneficiary' countries. in particular, if it is conducted under the responsibility of the eu, in defence of the interests which it defends. the example of portugal is illustrative. while one of the serious problems facing the portuguese economy is the continued decline in investment - reflected in low rates of economic growth and rising unemployment - foreign direct investment has been a major feature of the portuguese economy over the years. the reality is, however, that increasing shares of the wealth produced in portugal are being transferred abroad.
in writing. − according to the definition of the eu court of justice, fdi is a long-term investment, which allows the acquisition of at least 10% of the capital/shares of a company and gives the investor control over the management of that company. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, fdi has become the exclusive competence of the eu, whose main tasks are the management of the existing bits (bilateral investment treaties) and the definition of a european investment policy that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. but our position is different. in most cases, fdi does not solve the development problem of the countries where it is processed. we know what the multinationals are doing. they sustain themselves while making fabulous profits and endorsements. then, at the slightest failure, they look elsewhere and do not take into account the unemployment and the blockage to development that they create. portugal is unfortunately well aware of this situation.
in writing. − the eu has exclusive competence when it comes to foreign direct investment (fdi) as defined in articles 206 and 207 tfeu the bilateral investment treaties concluded must be managed and the union must define a future european investment policy that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary countries. it is important that investors are protected, but the commission is asked to present a clear definition of the investments that should be protected. in future, agreements should build on past good practice and also take account of the needs of smes.
in writing. − under articles 206 and 207 tfeu, foreign direct investment (fdi) is an exclusive competence of the european union. this highly consequential development poses a dual challenge, both for the management of the more than 1200 bilateral investment treaties (bits) already concluded by the member states and for the definition of a future european investment policy that meets the expectations of investors and beneficiary states, while respecting the objectives of the eu's external action. a coherent, sound and effective investment policy requires an unequivocal definition of foreign direct investment and a clear definition of its scope. i voted in favour of this report and highlighted the ep's call on the commission to establish a clear definition of investments to be protected, including both fdi and portfolio investments, stating that investments of a speculative nature, as defined by the commission, should not be protected.
in writing. - under the lisbon treaty, foreign direct investment is now the exclusive competence of the european union. this presents a twofold challenge: firstly, to manage the existing bilateral investment treaties between member states and, secondly, to define a european investment policy that meets the expectations of investors, beneficiary states and the interests of the eu. an integrated and coherent policy that promotes high-quality investment and contributes positively to economic progress and sustainable development worldwide is essential. to this end, a clear definition of the investments to be protected should be made, with the exception of those of a speculative nature which should not be protected. it would be useful to introduce the term 'eu investor' and to define strictly 'foreign investor'. the identification of good practices arising from the experience of the member states and the observance of basic standards such as non-discrimination, fair and equitable treatment and protection against direct and indirect expropriation will lay the foundations for a coherent european policy in this field. these measures and a definition of the sharing of responsibilities between the eu and the states will help to create conditions for smes to invest abroad.
in writing. − i approve this report taking into account the s&d group's proposals for better supervision of pre-accession funds, given the experience of 2009, the eu's actions against tobacco, being part of a global partnership, the trafficking of other goods into or out of the eu which costs taxpayers money and deprives the eu budget of funds and actions to tackle this problem. finally, it will be important to monitor the work carried out by the anti-fraud office throughout the year and not just at the annual report debate.
in writing. - fraud, as the rapporteur very well defines it, is voluntary irregular behaviour which constitutes a criminal offence and an irregularity means the breach of a rule. this is the defining framework that should make us zero tolerance for fraud and set as our objective, as i said in relation to the 2008 report, to achieve a zero level of financial irregularities in the eu. as i pointed out in a question at the end of last year, following an investigation by the financial times, there are serious doubts about the purpose and effectiveness of the cohesion fund. these doubts cannot die in the pages of the newspapers. at the same time, this report also regrets that a large amount of eu funds continues to be misused and calls on the commission to take appropriate action to ensure the swift recovery of these funds. this misuse of community funds requires better administration and control in the use of funds and provision should be made for effective application of sanctions to member states which do not make good use of the funds received. only then can we move towards the desirable zero fraud framework in the eu.
in writing. − this report focuses on the commission's report to the european parliament (ep) and the council on the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud annual report 2009 (com (2010) 382) and aims to comply with article 325 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) which obliges the commission and all member states to safeguard the eu's financial interests and obliges the commission, in accordance with paragraph 2 of that article, to submit a detailed report to the ep and the council on an annual basis. despite the improvements made in recent years, it is essential to continue to work to prevent any kind of fraud, although this is also combated by member states' bodies. i agree with the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, which should be complemented by the recommendations suggested during the debate, in particular the need to clarify the concepts of 'fraud' and 'irregularities', as this represents behaviour which is deliberately detrimental to the eu's interests, while these should be the subject of a better management system. i hope that the 2010 report, incorporating the suggestions made, will be of a higher quality than the one of 2009.
in writing. − the report summarises the available statistics on irregularities reported by member states in a number of areas, including agricultural policy, cohesion policy, pre-accession funds and the collection of the eu's traditional own resources. during 2009, numerous irregularities were detected in the above areas in different member states. many of these irregularities are detected and/or reported late, jeopardising the protection and sound use of public financial resources. we welcome the criticisms and comments made by the rapporteur on the need to put in place an effective recovery system. the overall recovery rate is frankly low. we stress, however, that the fight against fraud and corruption must, for various reasons and, above all, for reasons of efficiency, be carried out at a level as close as possible to that at which these phenomena occur. the fight against fraud and corruption in each member state must therefore be strengthened, and common eu legislation alone is not a panacea for the phenomenon.
in writing. − it is a report on financial interests which summarises the statistics on irregularities reported by the member states in various fields, including agricultural policy, cohesion policy, pre-accession funds and the collection of the eu's traditional own resources. during the period 2009 numerous irregularities were detected in these areas and in different member states. many of these irregularities are detected and/or reported late, jeopardising the protection of taxpayers' money. we support the criticism raised by the rapporteur regarding the need to put in place an effective recovery system. the overall rate of recovery of the amounts recovered is currently well below what would be desirable. however, we stress that more important than common eu legislation in the fight against corruption and fraud, it is necessary that the fight against fraud and corruption be put into practice in each member state. in any case, we would point out that monitoring cannot be confused with excessive bureaucracy which jeopardises the rights of those who use the aid, especially small social organisations and smes.
in writing. − this report highlights the level of irregularities and fraud in each member state in the use of european union funds. the increase in the number of reported cases was caused by the introduction of new communication technologies. i believe that everything must be done to hold member states accountable and to discipline them in respect of fraud and irregularities. the necessary information on each member state should be available in order to increase the effectiveness of the control and supervision systems and to ensure a true picture of the situation. member states should introduce the irregularity management system to improve their compliance with their reporting obligations to the european institutions. agriculture, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds are areas where irregularity and fraud rates are high. measures are therefore needed to increase monitoring, detection and correction. we must be concerned about creating a transparent and efficient system for the management and application of community funds.
in writing. − the commission's report on the protection of the european union's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report 2009 presented in accordance with article 325 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) does not generally provide information on the estimated level of irregularities and fraud in each member state, as it focuses on the level of reporting. it is not possible to have a picture of the true level of irregularities and fraud in the member states, nor to identify and punish those with the highest level of irregularities and fraud. i agree with the rapporteur that the most appropriate approach is to base the conclusions on the situation regarding the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud in the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2009, which it considers to be the most reliable source of information, with the commission and olaf reports serving mainly as supporting information on the trends in the reporting and study of each case. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report, approved by all european political groups, highlights the estimated level of irregularities and fraud in each member state in the use of european union funds. the commission considers that the increase in the number of cases reported is due to the introduction of new communication technologies. i support this report because i believe that the commission must do more to hold member states accountable and to discipline them in respect of fraud and irregularities. the necessary information on each member state should be available in order to increase the effectiveness of the control and supervision systems and to ensure a true picture of the situation. at the same time, member states should introduce the irregularities management system to improve their compliance with their reporting obligations to the european institutions. agriculture, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds are areas where irregularity and fraud rates are high and therefore measures are needed to increase monitoring, detection and correction. the cooperation of all european bodies, but particularly of the member states, is essential to create an environment of transparency and rigour in the implementation of european funds.
in writing. - i welcome this report as a major step towards creating a common legal basis to regulate its financing. it is a report in the positive sense, in that it does not recognise european status for the human resources of parties and there is a differentiation between conditions for the establishment of a party and its funding; it is also positive that references to political foundations are included.
in writing. - the european union operates on the basis of a representative democracy, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. political parties at european level have a key role to play in creating european political awareness and in expressing the will of the citizens of the union. however, european political parties are only the umbrella organisations of national parties and do not come into direct contact with voters in the member states. it is also strengthened by the adoption of a common political, legal and fiscal status for european political parties, including an autonomous legal personality, directly based on eu law. better regulation of european political parties and their associated political foundations will also bring benefits in terms of transparency. transparent funding is a key element in supporting democratic values and promoting good governance, and it is hoped that it can also contribute to strengthening citizens' trust in political parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates safe and transparent rules for the operation and financing of european political parties in the european area. the future european status of political parties will be an important step towards greater civic participation, a more representative democracy and a europe closer to its citizens.
in writing. - our democracy is based on representation, which is exercised through political parties. these are therefore democratic instruments for representing the legitimate interests of citizens, both at the most immediate level (such as local government) and at the most distant level, which is their representation before the european institutions. it is no accident that members of the european parliament are organised into political parties and thus seek to represent the interests of their citizens according to an agenda of priorities defined according to their political orientation. as the rapporteur says, creating a safe and transparent environment for the operation and financing of european political parties is a profoundly democratic act, and i therefore welcome the initiative to establish a clear regulatory framework for their recognition and financing.
in writing. − political parties and the political foundations associated with them are essential instruments in a parliamentary democracy. they help to shape the political will of citizens. they are also important in the training and selection of their candidates. the lisbon treaty provides for this role to be played by political parties and their foundations, with a view to the creation of a 'european police', an 'eu-level political space', a 'european democracy', the european citizens' initiative being an essential constituent element; european political parties and political foundations have nevertheless become indispensable actors in the political life of the european union, especially as they shape and make known the positions of the various 'political families'; i agree with the criteria for access to funding, in particular the percentage of own revenue and the representativeness of the respective political party.
in writing. - there are several considerations in the report which merit our disagreement. the participation of political parties at european level in the campaigns for referenda in the member states, even if the subject of the referendum is directly related to issues concerning the european union, is one of them. we also disagree with the proposal that european political parties should start a process of examining the conditions for the direct recruitment of individual citizens as members. these reasons are added to a position of principle which is unfavourable to the creation of political parties at european level, a process which is inseparable from the nature and objectives of the current process of integration - neoliberal, federalist and militarist - in which they have, moreover, played an instrumental role.
in writing. we voted against this report because we are opposed to the creation of political parties at european level, which is also reflected in our position on the capitalist integration of the european union. the same applies to the proposals made for the respective foundations. but in the case of this report, there are other reasons for voting against. for example, we consider it wrong for political parties at european level to participate in campaigns for referenda in the member states, even if the subject of the referendum is directly related to issues concerning the european union. we also disagree with the proposal that european political parties should start a process of examining the conditions for the direct recruitment of individual citizens as members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it can be said that there is no democracy in our countries without political parties, but it must also be said that there will be no true european democracy without european political parties. and just as i believe that the funding of national parties by companies and their lobbies should be absolutely prohibited, and that public funding by the states should be guaranteed, i also believe that european parties should be financed by the eu budget and prohibited from receiving 'donations' from legal persons.
in writing. - it is of the utmost importance to promote safe and transparent rules for the operation and financing of european political parties in the european area. the future european status of political parties will go a long way towards making this a reality, as it will generate greater civic participation, more representative democracy and a europe closer to its citizens.
in writing. − this report is based on the assumption that the development of european political parties is critical to mobilising the public interest in eu affairs. underlying the debate on the status of european parties is a deep concern about the joint creation of a transnational civic space composed of free and equal citizens and the potential consequences of collective funding, in the form of a 'civic contract' between different peoples, for the future of integration. the design of a reform package for european political parties as a means of mobilising the democratic energies of individual citizens and citizens' organisations is a difficult but noble task, especially given the systemic complexity of the eu. however, this disadvantage could be turned into an advantage if the 'constitutive mission' of european political parties is clarified and how an informed and serious dialogue on their political development can contribute to the emergence of a more pluralist democracy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that creating a safe and transparent environment for the functioning and financing of european political parties is an action which promotes the quality of european democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it can be said that there is no democracy in our countries without political parties, but it must also be said that there will be no true european democracy without european political parties. and just as i believe that the funding of national parties by companies and their lobbies should be absolutely prohibited, and that public funding by the states should be guaranteed, i also believe that european parties should be financed by the eu budget and prohibited from receiving 'donations' from legal persons.
in writing. - the deepening of representative democracy and the creation of a political space at eu level undoubtedly require a strengthening of the role of european political parties and their foundations. the adoption of a uniform and common legal status for all european political parties and their associated foundations, based directly on european union law, is a very important first step in this direction. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which highlights the importance of european political parties as indispensable actors in the political life of the eu, and which makes concrete proposals to create a secure and transparent regulatory environment for the operation and funding of european political parties.
in writing. - i approve this report because it promotes better conditions for the governance of the single market and for the framework for partnerships within it. however, it is important to put people at the heart of these policies and to give more political importance to the european parliament in matters relating to the single market.
in writing. − strengthening european economic governance, coordinating the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy and relaunching the single market are key elements for the revitalisation of the european economy. the single market must be competitive, making a positive contribution to the daily lives of workers, students, pensioners and citizens in general, as well as to businesses, in particular smes; one of the main challenges for relaunching the single market is to ensure leadership, commitment and coordination at political level. i believe that good governance of the single market can only be achieved by good quality and up-to-date information on its functioning. this should be done by using appropriate tools for monitoring and evaluating single market policies to link the different phases of the policy cycle from design to implementation. it is also important that member states should engage in the evaluation and monitoring of single market rules.
in writing. the commission's communication on the single market act followed up the report by mario monti on a new strategy for the single market. this is the context in which this report is to be put. the objectives are clear: to strengthen free competition and to accelerate the process of liberalization and privatization in various sectors of economic activity and social life. the rhetoric of the report tends to obscure its real intentions, with the symptomatic statement that it seeks to 'strengthen development based on a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress', coupled with a 'high level of environmental protection and improvement'. it is a contradictory and demagogic speech, which goes on to say that 'businesses, especially smes, and europeans' will be 'at the centre of the single market'. they will certainly be at the centre of its negative consequences - which have become so evident over the last decades of the single market. the council conclusions of 25 march and the 'pact for the euro plus' adopted there illustrate the war waged against workers, young people and pensioners, and in the end against the general population.
in writing. this report is part of the package of the commission's communication on the single market act, whose proposal follows up the report by mario monti entitled 'a new strategy for the single market'. the aim is to strengthen free competition and to speed up the process of liberalisation and privatisation, although the whole document is covered with language that seeks to hide its real intentions, writing, for example, that it is intended to 'strengthen development based on a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, with a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment', adding that it is thus intended to put companies, especially smes, and europeans at the centre of the single market. but in fact, it is enough to read the conclusions of the council of 25 march and above all the euro plus pact, which launches a war against the world of work, collective bargaining, trade unions, pensioners and their right to pensions and pensions, to see what is being sought. the central objectives are to accelerate the process of capitalist concentration and accumulation in favour of monopoly groups, and to put an end to any attempt to protect smes, workers and public services. that is why we are voting against.
in writing. - the single market has always been one of the pillars of european economic development. i believe that one of the key challenges in relaunching the single market is to ensure leadership, commitment and coordination at political level. these 50 proposals to relaunch the single market cover a number of issues which crucially involve the competences of several commissioners in the european commission and fall within the remit of several parliamentary committees in the european parliament. it is, however, very important that member states set their own priorities and develop their own agenda in line with the priorities of the single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the guidelines on governance and partnership in the single market set out therein. i agree in particular with the need to strengthen political leadership and partnership. indeed, one of the key challenges of relaunching the single market is to ensure leadership, commitment and coordination at political level. the 50 proposals to relaunch the single market cover a number of issues which crucially involve the competences of several commissioners in the commission and fall within the remit of several parliamentary committees in the european parliament. in the council, the single market act is further divided up into different configurations of the institution, whose role and effectiveness vary considerably. strengthening dialogue, commitment and coordination at political level is essential to ensure the relaunch of the single market. in order to ensure leadership, i also agree with the rapporteur who proposes that the president of the european council be given a mandate to coordinate and oversee this process, in close cooperation with the president of the commission, defining the spring european council as the annual time for evaluating the single market.
in writing. − the full realisation of a barrier-free and competitive single market, with tangible benefits for the daily lives of workers, students, pensioners and citizens in general, as well as for businesses, is essential to revitalise the european economy and boost the eu's growth, competitiveness and sustainability. all stakeholders citizens, european institutions, member states should therefore make efforts to ensure the relaunch of the single market and coordinate their actions closely and effectively in order, inter alia, to improve the transposition, implementation and enforcement of the rules, develop a clearer regulatory framework, ensure greater involvement of regional and local authorities in this process, promote an open, transparent and regular dialogue with the social partners and civil society, strengthen administrative cooperation between member states and develop instruments to allow for proper monitoring of the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − the completion of the single market is now emerging as one of the measures to overcome the economic and financial crisis and thus promote increased competitiveness and full european integration. it is urgent to create a european space where the potential of smes can create economic added value, as set out in the commission's communication 'an act for the single market'. i believe it is essential to support smes in the european area and the full liberalisation of the free movement of people, goods and services in order to make the most of the single market. the rapporteur sets out five priorities on which the eu should focus, of which i would highlight: the creation of a european patent and a unified dispute settlement system, which are essential for innovation and creativity; new instruments for financing innovation for smes; the development of e-commerce by increasing business and citizens' trust, with measures against piracy and counterfeiting; better access to capital markets; the elimination and harmonisation of administrative and fiscal barriers to cross-border activities; the review of public procurement and public-private partnerships; and the encouragement of cross-border public procurement.
in writing. − i support this report for introducing a link between the single market act and agenda 2020, for mentioning the need to protect workers' rights, for focusing on job creation, for allowing mobility of pensioners' rights, among other progressive measures. the social dimension of this report is still not as strong as we would like.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to a more friendly and attractive single market for european citizens. it is worth noting that it was possible to include in the text measures to safeguard respect for social values and rights in european legislation, so that they can never be submerged by the logic of the market.
in writing. - this is one of the three reports on the internal market and the deepening of the single market which were debated and voted on today. the rapporteur is trying to obscure the consequences of his support for liberalisation by defending the social clause in all single market legislation, in accordance with article 9 of the tfeu and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, but he is aware that neither the commission nor the council respects it. nor is it the case in many member states, as the portuguese situation illustrates. more and more loans to free competition, more professions of faith in the market, in liberalizations and privatizations, as exemplified by the insistence on the application of the services directive. it is clear that this is in line with the conclusions of the council of 25 march and, above all, with the now renamed 'pact for a more euro' (the same one that germany conceived and called the 'competitiveness pact'), which declares war on workers and their social rights and on the general population, condemns the countries with the weakest economies to dependence and sets out a genuine regression of civilisation. we therefore voted against, as we did with the other two reports.
in writing. this is another report on the internal market and is part of the package on the commission communication on the single market act, whose proposal follows on from the mario monti report entitled 'a new strategy for the single market'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from harmful substances and the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. nor is it the case in many member states, as the portuguese situation illustrates. the aim is to strengthen free competition and to speed up the process of liberalization and privatization, as the report makes clear in insisting on the application of the services directive. it is therefore in line with the conclusions of the council of 25 march and, above all, with the euro plus pact, which is waging war on the world of work and social rights by insisting on accelerating liberalization. the central objectives are to accelerate the process of capitalist concentration and accumulation in favour of monopoly groups, and to put an end to any attempt to protect smes, workers and public services. that is why we are voting against.
in writing. - the single market has always been one of the pillars of european economic development. efforts to promote the single market must focus on the concerns and rights of citizens and businesses, providing them with 'tangible benefits'. it is necessary to include a reference to social rights in single market legislation and to propose measures to encourage citizens' mobility and to ensure the transferability of pension rights. only then will we succeed in a complete and functioning single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing with the main priorities presented by the european parliament to the commission. i would highlight among these proposals the call for measures to increase the mobility of european citizens, in particular by publishing by september 2011 a green paper on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, including an assessment of the existing framework, and also to submit, if appropriate, a legislative initiative proposal on the reform of that framework in 2012, while studying the feasibility and added value of professional identity cards and an eu-wide 'european skills passport' in 2011. this is a positive measure, which is part of the current situation and aims to increase mobility within the eu. i also highlight the call on the commission to present by june 2011 a legislative proposal on guaranteeing access to certain basic banking services, and to improve the transparency and comparability of banking charges by the end of 2011, and the call for a legislative proposal to remove the obstacles to mobile workers to ensure full transferability of their retirement rights.
in writing. − the full realisation of a barrier-free and competitive single market is essential to revitalise the european economy and boost the eu's growth, competitiveness and sustainability. efforts to relaunch and strengthen the single market must also focus on the concerns and rights of citizens, consumers, users of public services and businesses, providing tangible benefits to them in order to restore their full confidence in the european project and to inform them properly about the opportunities offered by the internal market. in this context, measures should be adopted to increase the mobility of european citizens, to ensure consumer protection, as well as to strengthen social welfare and safeguard workers' rights.
in writing. − this report aims to strengthen measures to put citizens at the centre of the single market project, which is centred on 19 initiatives geared to the needs of european citizens. i believe it is essential to restore the confidence of europeans in the european project and to do this, efforts must focus on the concerns and rights of citizens, consumers, users of public services and businesses. it is necessary to develop a holistic approach to the single market, capable of responding to the democratic deficit felt by european citizens, public and private bodies alike. the encouragement of mobility, through the removal of administrative and fiscal barriers and the harmonization of qualifications, the focus on transnational projects in various fields, the coordination of customs activities and the supervision of national markets, and the extension of the regulation on roaming, are examples of measures which i consider to be key to strengthening the links between citizens and the european project. however, it should be stressed once again that the social character of the single market must be complemented by political governance and partnership between the eu and national authorities, and by the economic dimension, which will enable economic growth and the strengthening of european competitiveness.
in writing. - i welcome this report for its focus on the need to support projects which bring added value to europe, the need for a new industrial and regional development policy to focus on clusters by region. it is also because it is committed to a single market for energy - by reducing energy dependence and creating infrastructure and more competitive prices for final consumers.
in writing. − as europe is the largest economy in the world, the implementation of the single market is essential to instill confidence and security in citizens and businesses. the crisis in the world in general and in europe in particular is making us reflect on the future of the european union (eu) and the steps we must take to revive the european economy. the european commission, in october 2010, following the report by mario monti a new strategy for the single market, adopted a communication called an act for the single market. among its objectives was to implement actions that would provide firms with stronger, more sustainable and equitable growth. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which aims, among other things, to reduce the bureaucratic burden on smes, their access to credit, the focus on innovation and the modernisation of services, e.g. e-government, and the implementation of a digital economy, which are key pillars of the europe 2020 strategy and will go a long way towards improving the competitiveness of the single market and fostering its growth.
in writing. - this is another report in the package on the deepening of the single market. we are faced with the insistence on the unbridled loans to the market and free competition, the obvious disaster that has resulted from these policies and the very harsh consequences that are now being felt by workers, smes and the general population, especially in the countries with the weakest economies. let us focus on the examples given by some of the quotes in the report, for example in the area of energy: 'reiterates the importance of a fully operational internal energy market; stresses that the internal energy market must contribute to maintaining energy prices that are affordable for both businesses and consumers.' the contradiction and the lie are obvious. it is enough to look at the portuguese situation to see that liberalisation has led to privatisation, at high prices for companies and consumers and in profits of over a billion euros for edp shareholders and the same for galp and other companies in the sector. but the same could be said of sectors such as postal services, telecommunications or the financial sector.
in writing. the commission's proposal follows on from the report by mario monti entitled 'a new strategy for the single market'. it is another hymn to free competition, although it is tinged with a few green and pink brushstrokes, to disguise the dynamite contained in the present sent to workers, smes and the majority of the population, especially in the countries with the weakest economies. the report also contains a number of recommendations on the use of energy in the transport sector. 'stresses the importance of a fully operational internal energy market; stresses that the internal energy market must contribute to maintaining energy prices that are affordable for both businesses and consumers.' it is enough to look at the portuguese situation to see that liberalisation has led to privatisation, high prices for companies and consumers and profits of over a billion euros for edp shareholders and the same for galp and other companies in the energy sector. the same could be said of other sectors, such as the postal services, telecommunications, not to mention the financial sector. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. - the single market has always been one of the pillars of european economic development. the communication 'acting for the single market' is based on the theme of political leadership and the partnership principle as key instruments for relaunching and deepening the single market. we need to give greater momentum to interinstitutional relations, cooperation and commitment by the member states, as well as national parliaments and regional and local authorities, in order to improve the applicability and implementation of single market legislation. we must all commit ourselves, member states and european institutions, to monitoring, assessing and modernising the implementation of european legislation.
in writing. − with a view to consolidating a single market for businesses and boosting their growth, the european parliament, through this report, sets out five major priorities: the creation of an eu patent and a unified patent litigation system; the financing of innovation; the promotion of e-commerce; the improvement of access to and participation by smes in the single market; and the rationalisation of public procurement procedures. i agree with the priorities put forward and have therefore voted in favour of this report. i reiterate my conviction that the creation of an eu patent and a unified patent litigation system is indispensable to support innovation and creativity in the single market. innovation and creativity are recognised as growth drivers. in addition to this, i believe that the commission and the member states should take due account of the importance of innovation in strong and sustainable growth and job creation. ensuring that innovation is properly funded, in particular through the creation of european bond loans to finance eu projects, is promoting growth.
in writing. − the full realisation of a barrier-free and competitive single market is essential to revitalise the european economy and boost the eu's growth, competitiveness and sustainability. it is therefore curious that measures are being taken to build a stronger single market, one that is better able to respond to the needs of eu businesses, and in particular smes, by making it an environment favourable to innovation, based on a digital economy, and in which there is a real freedom of movement of services.
in writing. the communication 'an act for the single market' addresses the issue of political leadership and the partnership principle as key instruments for the relaunch of the single market. the dynamics of interinstitutional relations and the cooperation and commitment of member states, in particular national parliaments and regional and local authorities, are mechanisms that will improve the applicability and enforcement of single market legislation. i shall vote in favour of this report because i consider the measures presented to be essential. among them, i would highlight the inclusion in the spring european council of an assessment of the situation of the single market, the publication of a green paper with the participation of all civil society and regional and local authorities, the publication of correspondence tables, and finally the reduction of deficits and errors in transposition of directives. member states, as well as the european institutions, must commit themselves to monitoring, evaluating and modernising the implementation of european legislation, because only then will integration policies be successful. i would also stress that regional and local authorities should have a more important role, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of partnership.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, in yemen, syria and bahrain we have in common the aspirations of the people for freedom and democracy and the bloody repression of demonstrations and popular protests. so we have to be clear. first of all, please, let's stop the arms sales to these countries immediately. europe continues to sell weapons, the weapons that are killing civilians. secondly, we must be on the side of the people and not on the side of the authorities who are authoritarian or dictatorial. that said, our solidarity must not forget that we continue to use two weights and two measures: one to deal with the democratic aspirations of the people, the other to deal with and deal with business. in libya, the bombings clearly went beyond the mandate of the un itself, while in bahrain we were just protesting when the saudi army entered the country to save a kleptocracy. while young people are showing their sympathy for the armies and the police, facing these forces with open chest, we are content to make diplomatic notes. i would conclude, mr president, by saying that it is as wrong to think that there are military solutions to political problems as it is wrong to think that the arab peoples have not yet noticed our duplicity.
the european union must be consistent in its pronouncements and actions on the popular uprisings in yemen, syria, bahrain and other countries in the arab world. more than its credibility is at stake, the effectiveness of the messages it conveys to the dictatorships targeted by the protests, as well as to the men and women who risk their lives by coming out into the streets to demand human rights, justice and democracy. the european union has been confrontatively ambiguous on bahrain in particular. this reflects the contradictions of a double-barrelled foreign policy based on oil and the supply of arms by member states not only to bahrain but also to saudi arabia, in violation of the common position on the export of military equipment. the european parliament calls for an immediate halt to the sale of arms and for the high representative to demand - loudly and clearly - that the bahraini authorities account for the dead and missing in the repression of peaceful protests and that they immediately stop the measures of media blackout.
in this debate we have talked about the poorest and weakest countries on the planet. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. it is not fate, nor are it inevitable natural limitations or constraints that make these countries poor, quite the contrary, many of them are rich, very rich in natural resources. it is the injustice and inhumanity of a system, a mode of economic and social organization which is dominant on a world scale and which is based on asymmetrical relations which generate and reproduce inequalities. it is the result of free trade, financial deregulation, illicit capital flight allowed by tax havens, but also of war and conflict fuelled by the competition for natural resources. it is in breaking with the foundations of this system, it is in genuine and solidary cooperation and development aid that we find the possibility of the emancipation of these peoples and the development of their countries.
mr president, the situation of civil war in côte d'ivoire, with the economic paralysis of the country and the great violence that has struck the population and turned into a humanitarian crisis, remains a matter of concern. it's time to put a stop to this. we know that there are old reasons for the serious situation there, in particular poverty and social inequalities, which have left behind both the old colonialism and the structural adjustment plans imposed for years by the international monetary fund. but these last four months of disgrace following the elections have shown how regrettable it is that the international community, including the european union, has not used the diplomatic channels sufficiently for a peaceful and political solution to the crisis. the role of france, which intervened militarily rather than insisting on diplomacy, is also regrettable. we therefore insist on an end to war and violence on all sides and call on the european union to act in this regard.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner stefan füle, the historic moment we are living in calls for firm and determined action. like many of you, we are watching with a mixture of hope, concern and expectation the events unfolding in the mediterranean basin. i am, however, pleased with the proactive position that parliament is preparing to adopt with regard to the revision of the european neighbourhood policy to the south, which i hope will lead to a greater presence of the union in this area, not only as a payer but also as a committed partner. it is therefore essential to stress the absolute need to defend our founding values in relations with our neighbours. we cannot compromise any longer in the defence of democracy, nor in the defence of human rights, much less in the defence of social justice. we can no longer give priority to short-term stability at the expense of the best interests of citizens, their uncompromising defence and their individual and collective freedom, with particular attention to women's rights. in future, the union must give priority to a bottom-up approach in its neighbourhood policy. it is imperative that this should happen. only greater involvement of local communities and civil society will ensure maximum effectiveness in their implementation. but i can't help but express a frustration: i regret that this parliament and the commission do not want to take this opportunity to differentiate the eastern neighbourhood policy, with the countries that could potentially become our future partners in the union, from the southern neighbourhood policy. i also challenge the commission to demonstrate, in its review process of 20 april, the ambition that the present moment demands, namely a tailor-made neighbourhood policy, tailored to each state, with clear benchmarks and a careful evaluation that will allow us to lead to a future mediterranean economic area with the new democracies of the south. finally, commissioner, we hope that the good atmosphere and cooperation which have characterized the work on this subject will lead to the european parliament's permanent involvement in the planning and evaluation of this policy.
the popular uprisings in north africa expose the mistakes of european policies and diplomacy guided by a so-called realpolitik that supported dictators and devalued the aspirations for freedom, justice and opportunity of all human beings. as a result, the european union has redefined priorities for its neighbourhood policy to the south. i agree with the new guidelines summarised in the three mmm, money, market access and mobility. but we must understand that our support for our neighbours must be conditional on a demonstration of political will and concrete progress in the process of democratization. democracy does not exist without political parties. it must therefore be a priority to support financially and organisationally the empowerment of democratic political forces, empowering the young people and women who bravely launched the arab spring. in societies still dominated by confessional perspectives of the state and based on patriarchal orientations, the touchstone of any truly democratic development will be based on the participation of women and respect for their human rights. this must be a fundamental guideline in european political support for the southern mediterranean. finally, the european union must also promote the involvement in political dialogue of all emerging actors, including parties with religious agendas, such as those linked to the muslim brotherhood, which should not be isolated but rather called upon to play the democratic game.
on behalf of the s&d group. unlike the reports we're hearing now from libya, where we only see men on the front lines, the images from about a month ago from benghazi's main square, tahrir square, from the demonstrations in tunisia, bahrain, syria, jordan or morocco, showed women of all ages crying out for freedom, justice and democracy. women, and particularly young women, have played and continue to play a key role in the revolutions in north africa and the arab world. the fate of these women in these countries, which are marked by strong patriarchal and religious traditions, will not only be indicative but also decisive of the path to be taken in the coming months and years by these countries in their search for democracy and respect for human rights. it must therefore be a priority for the european union to support the women who courageously launched the arab spring protests, including through funding of civil society organisations and political, technical and financial support to women who want to participate actively, encouraging them to enter all democratic institutions and bodies of political and economic power as mps, candidates of political parties, etc. it is also essential that the european union mobilizes all its efforts at the highest level to combat attempts at intimidation, reprisals and sexual violence against women who dare to speak out. cases such as the virginity tests imposed on women who demonstrated on 8 march in tharir square or the rape and imprisonment of iman al-obeidi in libya are crimes which are totally intolerable, as commissioner füle said. we hope that the high representative and the commissioner will call for an immediate and independent investigation of these cases, making them an example so that they are not repeated.
we know that women have been actively involved in the revolts of the people demanding more democracy, rights and freedoms in north africa and the middle east. but we also know that rape and sexual slavery are part of a widespread and systematic practice that is recognized as crimes against humanity and war crimes by the geneva convention. in this context, the news from the democratic republic of congo, egypt, libya and other countries where armed conflict and war are taking place is alarming. we therefore insist on effective diplomatic action that vigorously opposes the use of sexual assault, intimidation and harassment of women in north africa, the middle east and elsewhere. we also stress the importance of recognising the role of women in revolutions and insist on the need to guarantee their rights, including participation in the new democratic, legal, economic and political structures of these societies, and to put an end to the age-old discrimination against women.
in writing. we know the importance that eib - european development bank loans can have for development and social progress, given the low rates and long repayment periods it provides. however, their options are not always sufficiently transparent and clear, and the countries and regions most in need are not always the most favoured with their loans. so there are some criticisms, suggestions and proposals in this report which we support. but we do not agree that the eib should become a mere instrument of the european union for implementing its policies, including the problems of economic and social cohesion and social development, which must be taken into account in the community budget and its structural and cohesion funds. the eib can of course support and reinforce these aspects, but it cannot be a substitute for the community's budgetary policies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals contained in this legislative dossier do not raise any substantive disagreement and allow me to congratulate the european commission on this initiative which seeks to take account of scientific developments and allow the timely use of vaccines against bluetongue outside areas where there are restrictions on the movement of animals, as these types of vaccines do not pose a risk to the unwanted circulation of the virus. i would also like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, mr wojciechowski, and mr paolo de castro, who have made it possible to reach a rapid agreement with the council and the commission on the legal basis of this proposal. thus, contrary to the original proposal, legislative competence is shared between parliament and the council in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the committee on agriculture discussed and adopted its report in a short time to allow for the vote to take place here today in this plenary session and for the next step towards agreement with the council to be taken as soon as possible and to allow the entry into force of the new provisions of this directive. i therefore call on the council to meet the commission, and i am sure that the ep's position will be adopted by a large majority here today.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the question of the future of the community. we warned that its signature would further accentuate the downward pressure on producer prices faced by farmers in the european union, particularly in countries such as portugal, and the increased difficulties in getting their products out. we have denounced the fact that liberalization of trade in fruit and vegetables, typically mediterranean products, would wash down the entry into the large trading areas of products of lower price, often exempt from the same rules and standards as those imposed on farmers in the european union. we have pointed out that the liberalization of trade in agricultural products promotes models of intensive export-oriented production, which favours large agro-industry at the expense of small and medium-sized farming, family farming and supplying local and regional markets, all with negative consequences for food sovereignty, food security and quality, and also for the environment. the reality justifies the warnings we are making here, warnings which the commission has unfortunately ignored and continues to ignore. it has ignored the need to defend the interests of european union producers by ensuring fair prices for production and business continuity, particularly for small and mediumsized farmers. and we now know that the commission has also ignored the report of the european anti-fraud office, olaf, which denounced irregularities in the import of tomatoes from morocco, a report which acknowledges the impact of these imports on the fall in tomato prices on the eu market. not content with this, in the new agricultural chapter of the association agreement with morocco, the commission has decided to increase even more imports of tomatoes into the european union. when will we stop this liberal fundamentalism which sacrifices everything to the interests of a few large european economic groups and exporting multinationals? how does the commission intend to compensate european producers for the damage it has clearly caused them? these are the questions we leave here.
in writing. - i approve this report amending directive 2000/75/ec. both the council and the ep agreed to change the legal basis because the commission proposal was submitted before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. these changes are justified, in my view, by the spread of the disease and the scientific discovery of a vaccine which does not pose the risks posed by the previous one.
in writing. - i welcome the amendments to this directive which make the rules on vaccination more flexible. new technologies have made available 'inactivated vaccines' against bluetongue, which do not pose risks to unvaccinated animals. it is now agreed that vaccination with inactivated vaccines is the best tool for the control of bluetongue and for the prevention of clinical disease in the union. the widespread use of these vaccines during the vaccination campaign in 2008 and 2009 resulted in a significant improvement in the health situation. i call for the current vaccination rules laid down in directive 2000/75/ec to be amended to take account of recent technological developments in vaccine production, in order to ensure better control of the spread of the bluetongue virus and to reduce the burden on the agricultural sector due to this disease.
in writing. − traditionally, vaccination against bluetongue was carried out with live attenuated virus vaccines, which entailed a number of restrictions on vaccination in order to prevent the spread of the virus to unvaccinated animals. however, scientific developments have allowed the creation of new inactivated vaccines. unlike ' live attenuated vaccines', these can be used safely and without restrictions, as there is no longer a risk of circulating any active virus. in view of the serious consequences of bluetongue for livestock farming, all measures to make vaccination easier and more effective should be taken in order to protect livestock breeders from animal losses and ultimately food safety.
in writing. − bluetongue, also known as blue tongue, is a disease that mainly affects ruminant animals such as sheep, goats and cattle and can become epidemic when environmental and climatic conditions are favourable, particularly in late summer and early autumn. although there is no record of any human infection, it is essential to know about it and seek to implement measures that lead to its eradication. at european level, the disease has been manifested first in southern, and then in central and northern europe. thanks to successive vaccination campaigns co-financed by the european union. the use of certain vaccines may not eradicate the disease but allow it to continue to circulate. a vaccine has been developed to control and prevent the disease in the eu, but its use is limited by current rules. the current directive therefore needs to be amended. whereas this proposal for a directive amending directive 2000/75/ec of the european parliament and of the council is in line with the animal health strategy (2007-2013) and aims at a more flexible approach to the vaccination system thus contributing to the improvement of the control of the most serious animal diseases, i am voting in favour of this amendment;
in writing. - the main objective of this report is to update directive 2000/75/ec, which adopts specific provisions on measures to control and eradicate bluetongue. over the past few years, advances have been made in the area of animal vaccination. the risk posed by so-called 'live attenuated vaccines' has now been removed, as new inactivated vaccines are now available. these inactivated vaccines, unlike ' live attenuated vaccines' do not pose a risk of undesirable circulation of the vaccine virus and can be used safely outside restricted areas. that is what the report says. we believe that greater flexibility in the vaccination of bluetongue, taking into account technological developments in the production of vaccines, will contribute to better control of the disease and to reducing the burden it imposes on the agricultural sector. we also believe that the amendments to this directive should be implemented as soon as possible, for the benefit of the agricultural sector.
in writing. − vaccination against bluetongue was carried out with live attenuated virus vaccines, which entailed a number of restrictions on vaccination in order to prevent the spread of the virus to unvaccinated animals. however, recent technological developments have led to the emergence of new vaccines with the absence of live viruses. these new vaccines can be used with a higher level of safety and without any restrictions, as there is no longer any risk in the circulation of any active virus. in view of the serious consequences of bluetongue for livestock holdings, all measures facilitating good vaccination practices should be adopted in order to protect breeders from the loss of animals, which often leads to fatal losses for those holdings.
in writing. - the commission proposal on vaccination against bluetongue, now improved by this report, aims to make the rules on vaccination against bluetongue more flexible, in particular by allowing inactivated vaccines to be used outside areas subject to animal movement restrictions. the new rules will help member states to make the use of vaccines to control bluetongue more effective and reduce the burden of bluetongue on the agricultural sector. in fact, since 2004, the measures restricting mobility and marketing have imposed significant constraints on the producers concerned, compromising normal trade flows within a restricted zone and always with increased costs for the producers. i therefore voted in favour of the report on vaccination against blue tongue.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it is aimed above all at ensuring the highest levels of safety in the protection of the population following tragedies such as the one that recently occurred in japan. the technical aspects of safe energy capture must be considered very carefully, as any such situation that occurs again may have more serious consequences, both for human health and the environment, than the material aspects.
in writing. - i regret that the european parliament has not been able to draw the lessons from what has happened in japan. persisting in denying the great risks of using nuclear energy is not the best way of serving our citizens. the ep plenary was unable to pass a resolution in the face of the unenlightening spectacle of groups canceling each other out, rejecting each other's proposals without being able to pass anything in common. the transnational nature of the risks and consequences of accidents and the safety of the population should have been more pronounced. strengthening nuclear safety, testing for vulnerabilities, freezing nuclear expansion projects in europe and investing more effectively in clean energy and energy conservation should have been obvious conclusions. to close our eyes to what happened in japan and pretend that nothing happened is foolish and dangerous. calling for greater transparency and information on risks and accidents is something that chernobyl and fukushima have only made more evident.
in writing. - on 11 march, japan was struck by a very serious earthquake followed by a tsunami, which triggered the largest nuclear crisis in its history. the fukushima nuclear power station suffered severe structural damage and has since been at imminent risk of a major nuclear disaster. these events have led to a wave of reactions in europe, with commissioner oettinger calling for an extraordinary meeting of the international atomic energy agency; the german chancellor suspending for three months the decision to extend the life of the country's nuclear power stations; and the austrian environment minister, nikolaus berlakivich, demanding tests be carried out on european power stations. it is essential that the full consequences of the fukushima disaster be removed, particularly as regards the safety rules imposed on european nuclear power stations, in order to ensure their safety and ultimately the safety of europeans. once again, i take this opportunity to convey to all those affected by the disaster in japan my sincere condolences and my solidarity at this difficult time.
in writing. the problems with the fukushima nuclear power plant have put the discussion on the energy from nuclear fusion on the agenda, since 30% of the energy consumed in the european union comes from this source, with countries producing around 80%, such as france, and countries without nuclear power plants such as portugal and austria. it is therefore imperative that the eu promote a safety verification programme for its nuclear power plants, including through the performance of so-called 'strength tests'. these assessments should be based on a rigorous and harmonised assessment model, covering all types of possible risks in a realistic european scenario, and be carried out by the end of the current year in an independent and coordinated manner, covering all existing and planned nuclear installations in the eu; nuclear energy is now indispensable to ensuring europe's low-carbon energy supply. however, we must move towards greater energy efficiency and increased renewable energy. the commission and the member states should focus on modernising and expanding european energy infrastructure and on interconnecting networks to ensure a reliable energy supply.
in writing. − ensuring the safety of nuclear installations and avoiding accident risks in every possible way are important issues addressed in this resolution, which also calls on member states to impose a 'moratorium on the development and entry into service of new nuclear reactors, at least during the period of endurance testing'. we must, however, bear in mind that the tragedy in japan must not be an opportunity for lobbyists to advance or to retreat today to advance tomorrow. lessons must be learned seriously and from experience, and design and operational failures and deficiencies in other plants which may lead to accidents must be diagnosed. and also to take this experience into account in future energy developments. it is necessary that experts from the specialised bodies of the member states and also from the international atomic energy agency (iaea) be involved in this evaluation, while preserving their function, authority, autonomy and independence. recommendations at this level should be made by the eea as a technical, autonomous and independent body with the appropriate support of the eu and not the other way around. it is regrettable that this resolution is used as a pretext to support the so-called common energy policy and its objectives of liberalizing the energy sector.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution was not the best. so it was rejected, although it had some positive aspects, and so we abstained. ensuring the safety of nuclear installations and avoiding or minimising any risk of accident are important issues addressed in this resolution, which also calls on member states to impose a 'moratorium on the development and entry into service of new nuclear reactors, at least during the period of stress testing'. we must, however, bear in mind that the tragedy in japan must not be used as a catapult for economic interests to gain ground, to the detriment of the interests of the security of the people. instead, it is important to diagnose the design and operational failures and deficiencies of the plant which made the accident possible. it is necessary that experts from the member states' specialised agencies and also from the international atomic energy agency (iaea) be part of this evaluation, preserving their function, authority, autonomy and independence, and above all that the lessons be learned seriously and that the result of the analysis of this experience be incorporated into future developments in energy matters. we do not agree with interference in the energy policies of member states and third countries, and recommendations at this level should be made by the eea as a technical, autonomous and independent body, with the appropriate support of the eu.
in writing. the fukushima disaster reminded the planet that there is no zero risk for nuclear. the danger posed to mankind by nuclear energy is absolutely unsustainable, as are the risks added by the waste produced. we must therefore go beyond ensuring safety and improving safety testing. these two criteria would be a minimum condition for us to reach an agreement. the commission has not yet been able to secure an exit plan for the effective change in european energy policy, which will necessarily involve defining alternatives and phasing out the nuclear industry in europe. i voted against this resolution because i consider that none of the above assumptions have been guaranteed.
in writing. - in voting the resolution on nuclear safety after the fukushima accident i voted against the proposed amendment on co2 reduction targets for three reasons: (b) the objectives listed raise the eu's unilateral co2 reduction bar disproportionately; (c) such an ambitious - and in fact unrealistic - co2 reduction would only be acceptable if coupled with the introduction of a co2 tax on imports, otherwise it would seriously affect the competitiveness of european industry and lead european companies to relocate their production to countries without co2 restrictions, with serious effects on the eu economy and employment.
in writing. - the recent protests in several arab countries demonstrate that undemocratic and authoritarian regimes cannot guarantee credible stability and that democratic values are central to economic and political partnerships. i call on the authorities of bahrain, syria and yemen to respect the norms of international law on human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is necessary to start as soon as possible the process of open and meaningful political dialogue, with the participation of all democratic political forces and civil society, with a view to paving the way for genuine democracy, the lifting of the state of emergency and the implementation of genuine, ambitious and meaningful political, economic and social reforms, which are essential for long-term stability and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the violent repression by the security forces of peaceful protesters in bahrain, syria and yemen. i express my support and solidarity with the people of those countries who, motivated by legitimate democratic aspirations, are showing great courage and determination.
in writing. - syria, bahrain and yemen have been rocked by popular protests and have been severely repressed. i call on your governments to open up fruitful channels of dialogue with the protesters. the violence inflicted on the populations is not such as to prevent them forever from claiming what they believe is rightfully theirs. it merely delays the assumption of these rights, it extremes positions and makes possible more demanding reactions in the future. machiavelli himself, who theorized at length that it was preferable to be feared than loved, warned the princes of the world of the unnecessary and perniciousness of making themselves hated. it would be better if the authorities of these states undertook concrete reforms and allowed their citizens to enjoy standards of democracy, freedom and justice similar to the best in the world.
in writing. - the european union, by the example it has set throughout its existence, has a historic duty to denounce all violations of human rights and to fight for the right of peoples to self-determination, whether through denunciation or through development support programmes. the situation in bahrain - which has a strategic position for the balance of the gulf - where, beneath an apparent normality, there is a very tense situation with continuous detentions of people who are only accused of violating the right to freedom of expression; in syria, with protests in several cities being brutally suppressed despite eu calls for the rights to freedom of expression, assembly and association to be respected; and finally, in yemen, where the situation is deeply worrying, having already been condemned by the eu for the repression of protesters, it cannot leave us indifferent. i therefore support the measures proposed in this resolution, in particular the condemnation of those responsible for the massacres in these countries, and i hope that they will take effect as soon as possible so that these peoples will no longer be trampled underfoot. i also welcome the initiative to ask the un commission on human rights to condemn these violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. - we are faced with yet another example of the hypocrisy of the majority in this parliament. firstly, because they bring together different situations and countries in the same resolution. they do so deliberately, proposing "dialogue" for the transition to help allies (barren and yemen) and putting pressure on those who do not defend their interests (syria). the contradictions with what has happened in libya, where dialogue has been replaced by military aggression, making any possibility of a peaceful solution to the conflict unfeasible, are evident. the objectives are clear: to disguise the entry of troops from saudi arabia and the united arab emirates into bahrain to support the oligarchic regime, with the support of the usa (a country which has its largest naval base in the persian gulf in bahrain), in order to suppress the struggle of this people for social changes and democracy. the same is true in yemen, where they are coming to the defence of a regime which violently represses its people and their struggle for democratic change and better living conditions, in order to protect an ally in the so-called 'fight against terrorism'.
in writing. - this resolution is yet another example of the hypocrisy of the ep majority. of course, because they bring together different situations and countries in the same resolution. they do so deliberately, proposing "dialogue" for the transition to help allies (barren and yemen) and putting pressure on those who do not defend their interests (syria). it is worth asking why the 'dialogue' in libya was not also advocated instead of the bombing? the objectives are clear: to disguise the entry of troops from saudi arabia and the united arab emirates into bahrain to support the oligarchic regime, with the support of the usa (a country which has its largest naval base in the persian gulf in bahrain), in order to suppress the struggle of this people for social changes and democracy. the same is true in yemen, where they are defending a regime which violently represses its people and their struggle for democratic change and better living conditions, in order to protect an ally in the so-called fight against terrorism. in syria, they are trying to hide foreign interference by funding and arming what they call "peaceful protests" in a country that has taken an anti-imperialist stance, condemning israeli and us policy in the region.
in writing. - syria, bahrain and yemen have been confronted with a series of popular uprisings which have been put down by force. in my opinion this is not the best way to deal with the situation, because violence only breeds more violence. the governments of these countries should seek to find ways of dialogue with the leaders of the demonstrations, so that we can move towards a level of understanding that avoids death and bloodshed. the authorities of these states must take care to undertake concrete reforms which will enable their citizens to have access to democracy, freedom and justice similar to those existing in most countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union can make efforts to promote through its diplomacy a process of democratic and peaceful change in bahrain, yemen and syria. the people of these countries, with whom i am in solidarity, want, as we all do, to see economic conditions improved, social inequalities reduced, corruption and nepotism combated, democratic reforms implemented and fundamental human rights guaranteed.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. i consider it important to increase the effectiveness of development aid and the need for a coherent accompanying policy in areas such as trade and development cooperation, climate change, agriculture, etc. the eu needs to take a common position for the least developed countries and must not allow economic and financial crises to jeopardise the development of the partnership with the least developed countries. it is essential that this conference reaffirm the global commitment to address the special needs of the least developed countries related to sustainable development in its economic, social and environmental dimensions and to support them in their efforts to eradicate poverty.
in writing. - it is regrettable that 48 countries are currently classified as least developed countries and that 75% of the 800 million people in these countries live on less than $2 a day. the long-term objective of development cooperation must be to create the conditions for sustainable economic development and a fair redistribution of wealth. peace and security are vital to the effectiveness of development policies and the eu should better coordinate its approach to tackle the stability problems in the least developed countries and support efforts to build the capacities for building peaceful, democratic and inclusive states. it is also essential to give priority to food security, agriculture, infrastructure, capacity building and, in particular, economic growth, access to technologies and human and social development in the least developed countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries should present measures to enable these countries to integrate into the global economy and improve their access to eu markets. the european commission should consider increasing aid to these countries in order to minimise the costs of liberalising their markets.
in writing. − despite the technical and financial assistance provided over the years to the least developed countries, it must be recognised that most of them have not been able to rise above this status and maintain permanent weaknesses and needs. it is right to mention here, as the resolution adopted does, the exceptional circumstances of cape verde, which, despite its scarcity of resources, has managed to overcome some of the difficulties it was facing and to raise the living conditions of its population. i therefore congratulate the people of cape verde, their government and their parties, who have been able to conduct their work in a responsible and respectable manner, and today that portuguese-speaking country is an example for the less developed countries to follow. despite the limitations on trade and the problems of training and access to information and the means and units of production, it cannot be overstated that the backwardness of the least developed countries lies mainly in the incapacity of their policy-makers and the inefficiency of their institutions because their people are as capable as others.
in writing. the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries (ldcs) will be held in istanbul, turkey, from 9 to 13 may. the eu, which has always been a leader in supporting developing countries through programmes to eradicate poverty - and whose financial allocation has tripled in recent years - is very committed to hosting this meeting. this parliament will also be represented by a delegation with well-founded proposals, although its observer status does not allow for much visibility, and i hope that it will be a strong impetus for us to win the 'battle' of sustainable development and equitable growth in these countries. given that all countries have responsibilities in supporting the least developed countries in order to meet the millennium development goals, i agree with the proposals contained in this joint motion for a resolution and i wish the target of halving the least developed countries by 2020 to be achieved. mdg-iv should support concrete measures that help address the development needs of the least developed countries, combat poverty and ensure decent income and livelihoods.
in writing. − in the context of the 4th united nations development conference, it is appropriate to consider the millennium development goals (mdgs) adopted by the united nations general assembly in 2000 and to assess their achievement, namely: eradicating poverty and hunger; promoting equality between men and women; increasing and improving maternal and child health care; combating hiv/aids; developing environmental sustainability; achieving universal primary education. as far as development policy is concerned, the dissonance between the words and the action of the eu is evident. the means at our disposal to eradicate poverty exist. as a result of scientific and technological development, they are actually expanding. but what we are seeing is the increase in poverty worldwide. they are the consequences of a system that is dominant on a global scale - capitalism, inherently unjust and unequal. we stress the importance of the alternative resolution tabled by the gue/ngl and the amendments tabled to the joint resolution (and unfortunately rejected by the majority), focusing, among other things, on issues such as food sovereignty and agricultural development and the need to put an end to the blackmail exercised by the eu on a number of developing countries on the basis of the so-called economic partnership agreements.
in writing. − it is essential to support the poorest and most fragile countries on the planet, which includes almost half a hundred countries whose people are suffering the consequences of successive failures to implement the conclusions of successive united nations conferences. this is largely due to colonialism and the exploitation of their resources and populations. it is not fate, nor are it inevitable limitations or natural constraints that make these countries poor. quite the contrary: many of them are rich, very rich, in natural resources. in other cases, it is the continuation of capitalist exploitation, with the injustice and inhumanity of a system - a mode of economic and social organization that is dominant on a world scale - that is based on asymmetrical relations, generating and reproducing inequalities. it is the result of free trade, financial deregulation, illicit capital flight allowed by tax havens, but also of war and conflict fuelled by the competition for natural resources. it is in breaking with the foundations of this system and in a genuine and solidary policy of cooperation and development aid that lies the possibility of the emancipation of these peoples and the development of their countries.
in writing. - i believe that the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries should present the necessary measures to enable these countries to integrate into the global economy and improve their access to eu markets. however, despite the efforts of all, the objectives have not been achieved, and i should like to mention cape verde, which has achieved some success and raised the quality of life of its citizens to levels higher than those of other less developed countries.
in writing. the european parliament wishes to make its contribution to the fourth united nations conference on the least developed countries. i share this view because i also believe that the conference should promote coherent development policies by promoting action in all areas - such as trade, fisheries, the environment, agriculture, climate change, energy, investment and finance - to strongly support the development needs of the least developed countries, to combat poverty and to ensure decent incomes and livelihoods. i would like to stress here, as does the resolution i voted for, that in 2007 cape verde was one of the three countries that were freed from the status of least developed country. it is a country with few resources, but which has been able to fight for growth and the fight against poverty. i would like to congratulate the people of cape verde and their leaders.
in writing. - i support this report insofar as i support iceland's accession to the eu, and hope that the government will be able to secure the support of its citizens for this national political commitment.
in writing. − i welcome the prospect of having as a new eu member state a country with a strong democratic tradition and a solid civic culture. iceland has achieved good results in the defence of human rights and has ensured a high level of cooperation with international human rights protection mechanisms. iceland's accession to the eu will therefore strengthen the union's role in promoting and defending human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide. iceland's experience in the field of renewable energy can also make a valuable contribution to eu policies, in particular in the fields of geothermal energy exploitation, environmental protection and measures to combat climate change. iceland's accession to the eu will improve the eu's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic by contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions for the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the '2010 follow-up report on iceland' because i think we should support the accession to the eu of one of the oldest european democracies, provided that the necessary requirements are met, such as the abolition of whaling and trade in whale products.
in writing. - iceland is the country most prepared to join the european union and the one most clearly sharing the values and principles which guide community action. i believe that the union will gain from iceland's contribution. in general, iceland has standards that are identical or, in some cases, higher than those in the union. i am confident that the adjustments still to be made will not be such as to hamper the accession process too much.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution concerns the 2010 monitoring report on the progress made by iceland towards its integration into the european union (eu). the opening of accession negotiations for iceland took place in july 2010. considers that the necessary conditions should be created to complete the process of accession of iceland and to ensure the success of this accession; this is a country with a strong democratic tradition and a strong civic culture; and its accession will strengthen the union's role in promoting and defending human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide. iceland is an efta member, has a market economy which can bring some advantages to the eu, particularly in the area of renewable energy. however, it is necessary for iceland to demonstrate a genuine interest and to cooperate in resolving outstanding issues in the fisheries management sector. the report before us shows that some progress has been made, but there is still a lot to be done, particularly in the fisheries sector. i hope that the outstanding issues can be resolved quickly so that iceland's accession process can be successful.
in writing. - our position in principle on the accession of new countries to the european union is well known: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we therefore await the position of the icelandic people on accession so that we can take their position into account in the future. our abstention in these votes, apart from this principle, does not ignore the profound meaning of the enlargement processes in the eu, given the capitalist nature of the integration process and the objectives it pursues. the peripheries created by previous enlargements have been exhausted, and we need to grow further and reach new markets. we regret some of the demands that the european union is making on iceland, including in this report. the demands for liberalization in certain sectors, particularly the financial sector, are examples of this, which is all the more serious since it is known that this sector was one of the sectors responsible for the crisis that occurred there and that it was only possible to get out of it with a clear intervention by the state.
in writing. - we abstained in this vote in view of our position on the enlargement of the european union. we await the position of the icelandic people on accession so that we can take their position into account in the future. however, we regret some of the demands that the european union is making on ireland, including in this report, and with which we clearly disagree. the demands for the liberalization of certain sectors, in particular the financial sector, are examples of this, which is all the more serious since it is known that this sector was one of the sectors responsible for the crisis that occurred there and that it was only possible to get out of it with a clear intervention of the population and the state. we look forward to future events, in particular the referendum on 9 april, for a stronger position on the accession of this country.
in writing. − iceland has been taking concrete steps towards future eu membership, as it is among the applicants that best meets the requirements for such membership. however, the recent referendum lead in the payment to the netherlands and england of funds lost by citizens of those countries who had investments in a failed icelandic bank may bring some obstacles to their accession.
in writing. - iceland is one of the oldest democracies in europe. of the countries applying to join the european union, it is certainly the best prepared, not only because it has democratic principles and values similar to those of the member states, but also because it already has the same or higher standards of development. i voted in favour of this 2010 follow-up report because i believe that once the necessary conditions for accession are met, including the abolition of whaling and trade in whale products, the eu will benefit from the accession of this country. however, the question of the accession of this country should be properly framed within the common policies of the union, in particular the common fisheries policy. the icelandic authorities have not yet adopted any measures to address the problem of the fishing industry.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given the right to intervene in the negotiations on the association agreement with the eu. i am also concerned about the growing ethnic tensions, the lack of political dialogue and the freedom of the press. political parties must end the boycott of the national parliament and enter into a dialogue with the institutions. i also regret that the dispute with greece continues to block the country's path to eu membership. bilateral issues must be resolved by the parties concerned in a spirit of good neighbourliness and with european interests at the forefront.
in writing. - in line with parliament's previous resolutions, i regret that the council has not taken a decision on the opening of accession negotiations, as recommended by the commission for the second year in a row. the eu enlargement process is a powerful instrument for peace, stability and reconciliation in the region. i am particularly concerned about the persistent and very high unemployment, especially among young people, a problem common to many countries in the region. i call on the government to implement more effective measures quickly to improve public investment in employment policies and in the use of the workforce in quality, stable and decent jobs. i welcome, however, the recent adoption of the energy law, which aims at liberalising the country's electricity market and is in line with the relevant european directives. i welcome the adoption of the national strategy for sustainable development but more efforts are needed to implement environmental legislation and to provide adequate funding for this. it calls for closer cooperation on crossborder environmental issues based on eu standards, in particular in the field of water quality, waste management and nature protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution by recommending once again that the council take a decision on the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european council granted candidate status to the country in 2005 but has not been able to set a date for opening negotiations since then, despite the substantial progress made by the country on its path towards the european union.
in writing. the eu is also committed to the development of the region's economic and social cohesion. in any case, macedonia has made progress in seeking to adopt the acquis communautaire and in equipping its institutions with reliable structures and best practices such as those advocated by the union. the political crisis that has hit the state shows how much remains to be done and how far we still have to go before all the criteria for realistically welcoming membership are objectively met. i call on greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to try to overcome their differences and to be able to prove themselves true to the generous and founding european spirit that we all so badly need today.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) and the eu's relations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) (b7-0210/2006); on 16 december 2005, the european council granted the status of candidate country to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in 2008, the principles, priorities and conditions for accession were set and have been monitored by the commission. while the assessment is positive, there are aspects to be accelerated, such as the dialogue with greece on the designation of the new member state, the reform of the public administration and the judicial system, the fight against organised crime and corruption, respect for freedom of expression, institutional cooperation. the current political situation, such as the boycott of the national parliament by opposition parties, may adversely affect the country's priorities towards the eu. the parties concerned must resolve bilateral issues in a spirit of good neighbourliness. all actors must step up their efforts and show responsibility and determination in addressing all outstanding issues that are hampering the candidate country's accession process and the eu's own policy in the region.
in writing. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been experiencing some obstacles on its path to eu membership. although it has made progress in adopting the entire acquis communautaire, equipping its institutions with sound structures and best practices, it still has a long way to go. however, there is still much to be done and the political crisis that has plagued the state is proof of this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this 2010 follow-up report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the accession process of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been significantly delayed despite the political and socioeconomic progress the country has made. i hope that the existing differences and regional problems can be overcome for the sake of the common european good.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. the international community recognises the democratic victory of alassane ouattara and must redouble its efforts to facilitate his peaceful rise to power. the eu must therefore act diplomatically, using all the mechanisms at its disposal, in order to help normalize the situation and, above all, to prevent further deaths.
in writing. - i strongly condemn the attempts by former president gbagbo and his supporters to usurp the will of the ivorian people by violence and i join those who call on laurent gbagbo to step down immediately. it is regrettable that the people of the ivory coast have had to pay such a high price to ensure that their democratic will expressed in the presidential elections of november 2010 is respected. i express my full support for president ouattara, his government and the people of côte d'ivoire in their task of reconciliation, recovery and sustainable development. i call for the opening of negotiations to restore order, peace, stability and security in the country in the difficult task of promoting national reunification.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in côte d'ivoire, which condemns the violent attempts to usurp power by former president gbagbo and reiterates the need for him to relinquish power immediately in favour of the democratically elected president, alassane ouattara, in order to restore peace and democracy in the country.
in writing. - despite the grandiose dreams of félix houphouët-boigny, côte d'ivoire is today a country torn apart by the confrontation between laurent gbagbo and alassane ouattara, which threatens to go on forever. the ivory coast people are watching with concern and fear the military advances of their respective factions, fearing for their safety and for the further destabilization of the country. the ivory coast is yet another example of the danger posed by dictatorial leaderships that perpetuate themselves over time and leave behind an institutional and practical vacuum of democracy and the exercise of freedoms.
in writing. - the european union, by the example it has set throughout its existence, has a historic duty to denounce all violations of human rights and to contribute to respect for the right of peoples to self-determination, whether through denunciation or through development programmes. recently, we have seen a resurgence of violence and genuine massacres in côte d'ivoire, where the process of democratization is not being accepted by all the ivorian people. this parliament adopted several resolutions on the political situation in that country, including one on 16 december 2010. other european and international institutions, such as the un security council and the economic community of west african states (ecowas), have also condemned the violation of human rights in the country following the failure of the defeated president laurent gbagbo to accept the un-certified election results, which led to a wave of violence in the country that has left hundreds dead and nearly a million refugees. i therefore agree with the measures presented and i am voting in favour of this proposal because i believe that this parliament should be a champion of a foreign policy based on values and not exclusively on economic interests.
in writing. - we did not vote for this resolution and we remain concerned about the war situation in côte d'ivoire, the economic paralysis in the country and the great violence that has struck its population, which has become a humanitarian crisis. we know that there are old reasons for the serious situation there, in particular the poverty and social inequalities that have been left behind, both by the old colonialism and by the structural adjustment plans imposed for years by the imf. these last four months of misery following the elections show how regrettable it is that the international community, including the european union, has not used the diplomatic channels sufficiently for a peaceful and political solution to the crisis. it is regrettable that france has chosen to intervene militarily rather than using diplomatic channels. we therefore insist on an end to war and violence on all sides and call on the european union to act in this regard.
in writing. - respect for democracy is an inalienable principle of the eu. we must therefore condemn the events in côte d'ivoire in the strongest possible terms. the use of violence against civilians in côte d'ivoire by laurent gbagbo after losing the elections is unacceptable and he must resign and hand over power immediately. the guilty cannot go unpunished and so we must do everything in our power to identify and prosecute, including at international level, all those responsible for crimes against the civilian population, and the eu will be available to give the necessary support to the investigations.
in writing. - in view of the political crisis in the country with serious social consequences, i welcome the commitment of the european union, as expressed by commissioner georgieva, to help resolve the humanitarian crisis.
in writing. - i support this report as it aims at important objectives such as visa liberalisation, free trade agreements, contacts with civil society and non-use of force with regard to eu involvement in conflicts, as well as self-determination and territorial integrity.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague marek siwiek on the excellent work he has done and on the cooperation, i would even say the agreement we have been able to reach on the general principles of the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). in addition to what i have already said on the resolution i was rapporteur for on the southern dimension, i would like to stress the need for both dimensions of the enp to be absolutely focused on a bottom-up approach in the future, and also stress that only greater involvement of local communities and civil society will ensure maximum effectiveness in the implementation of the enp by the eu. i also hope that the eu will no longer give priority to short-term stability at the expense of the best interests of its citizens and their uncompromising defence; their individual and collective freedom, with particular attention to women's rights, as i said in my speech. while i am very pleased with the results of these two reports, i do regret that this parliament and the commission did not take this opportunity to differentiate between the eastern european economic area and the countries which could potentially become our future partners in the union, the southern european economic area.
in writing. − the aim of the resolution on the eastern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy is to recommend that the next strategic review of the european neighbourhood policy reinforce the differentiation between states on the basis of their ambition and commitments when accompanied by real progress and concrete measures. the specificities of each partner, including their different objectives and potential, should be taken into account. the european parliament and the council have agreed to the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in order to provide a platform for the exchange of information and experience on vocational training in the eastern partnership. freedom of the press and the fight against corruption should be a priority for the eu in developing its relations with them and this should be reflected in the overall institutional development framework.
in writing. − the objectives of the european union (eu) are broad and consist in enlargement to neighbouring countries in order to create a large area of free movement of people and goods. in these circumstances, the eu's european neighbourhood policy (enp) plays a key role in its development and growth strategy. the instruments and resolutions adopted were therefore numerous, notably the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the fundamental options of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). i therefore welcome the adoption of this report and the proposed measures, including financial reinforcement and cross-sectoral cooperation, and the holding of a second eastern partnership summit in the second half of 2011. i would like to stress the need for the eu to intensify its dialogue with civil society organisations in these countries, by stimulating free trade as a means of promoting stability, encouraging the sharing of experience and mobility between member states and these countries and promoting multilateral dialogue.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy has proven to be an effective foreign policy instrument, promoting closer relations with partner countries and has provided some tangible benefits. the ultimate aim of an effective neighbourhood policy is to guarantee peace. the eastern partnership is a meaningful policy framework for deepening relations with and between partner countries, based on the principle of sharing of tasks and responsibilities. i voted in favour of this resolution because i also believe that the strengthening of relations between all countries, as recommended, presupposes a deeper common commitment and progress towards good governance and democratic standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which reaffirms the need for the revision of the enp to be based on the defence of the eu's fundamental values and principles and greater involvement of civil society and local communities, and stresses the importance of the eastern dimension of the enp as an instrument for strengthening the eu's relations with its eastern neighbours, with a view to supporting political, social and economic reforms in these countries and deepening its commitment to shared values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and good governance, within a european integration perspective.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy (enp) has proven to be a key instrument of european foreign policy, providing closer relations with partner countries and mutually beneficial outcomes. the changes brought about by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon were intended to make the european external dimension more coherent, more efficient and more legitimate. however, it is imperative to review and point out the mistakes of the past. the review of the enp and the eastern partnership (eap) should set out specific priorities for action for each partner, benchmarks and differentiation based on performance and results achieved. a bottom-up approach, with support for civil society and democratisation processes, is a prerequisite for long-term stability and sustainable growth. a strong focus on training, education, research and mobility is essential to tackle the region's socioeconomic problems. finally, i underline the eu's support for belarusian civil society in strengthening democratic and social reforms to enable its participation in the enp and other sectoral policies.
in writing. - i approve the declarations with the commitment to reflect on new developments, past mistakes, support for democratic transformation and economic and social reforms in the region, fight against corruption, promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. above all, a multilateral dimension must be developed and synergies between the bilateral and multilateral dimensions of this partnership created, including the relaunch of the fmu and the strengthening of the role of trade unions with the civilian population. it is also important to stress that the funds allocated to this policy must be increased and better used.
in writing. - important strategic changes to the european neighbourhood policy were approved today by the plenary in strasbourg. it is proof that europe can be proactive if it wants to be and if it remains united around an ideal. once again, we proved it today! i am pleased to note this in a resolution for which i had the honour of being rapporteur. in fact, commissioner füle has accepted almost all our proposals, as the whole house was able to see in the debate which preceded this vote, and i am pleased to note that. i now challenge the commission to demonstrate in its review process of 10 may the ambition that the present moment demands, namely a tailor-made neighbourhood policy, tailored to each state, with clear benchmarks and careful evaluation, which will allow us to lead to a future mediterranean economic area with the new democracies of the south, and i hope that the good atmosphere and cooperation which have characterized the work on this subject will lead to a permanent involvement of the european parliament in the planning and evaluation of this policy. i also believe it is absolutely essential that in future the union should give priority to a bottom-up approach in its neighbourhood policy for the reasons set out in this resolution.
in writing. − the recent developments in the southern mediterranean, starting with tunisia as early as december 2010, have given new urgency to a review of the european neighbourhood policy. the european parliament must monitor the democratic transition processes in the southern mediterranean countries and, together with the other european institutions, must support this transition as quickly and peacefully as possible, providing meaningful support through the instruments at its disposal aimed at promoting political, economic and social reform. strengthening democracy, the rule of law, good governance, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are essential elements of the political dialogue between the eu and its southern neighbours, in the light of events, the union for the mediterranean should be relaunched and the funds allocated to the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy should be strengthened.
in writing. - i welcome the quality of this resolution and its subsequent adoption. congratulations to my colleague mario david. the objectives of the european union (eu) are broad and consist in enlargement to neighbouring countries in order to create a large area of free movement of people and goods. in these circumstances, the eu's european neighbourhood policy (enp) plays a key role in its development and growth strategy. the instruments and resolutions adopted were therefore numerous, notably the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the fundamental options of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). however, the revision of the enp has acquired added importance in the context of developments in the southern and eastern mediterranean. the eu should learn from the events in the south, particularly in tunisia and egypt, and review its policy of support for democracy and human rights, so as to create a mechanism for the implementation of human rights clauses in all agreements with third countries. the review of the enp should give priority to criteria related to the independence of the judiciary, respect for fundamental freedoms, pluralism and freedom of the press and the fight against corruption.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy has proven to be an effective foreign policy instrument. the european parliament, through the interparliamentary delegations and the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean, must assume its responsibility in promoting the notion that stability and prosperity in europe are closely linked to democratic governance and economic and social progress in the southern neighbourhood and in promoting political debate, genuine freedom, democratic reforms and the rule of law in the neighbourhood partner countries. for these reasons, which are set out in this resolution, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the recent demonstrations in several countries in the eu's southern neighbourhood, notably tunisia, egypt and libya, have made clear the need for the eu to change its neighbourhood policy, equipping it with more ambitious and effective instruments to encourage and support the political, economic and social reforms that are being called for. it is therefore essential, as the rapporteur - mr mário david, whom i congratulate on the excellent work he has done - points out, that the revision of the enp reflects these developments and makes it possible to respond adequately to the challenges they pose, with a focus on the uncompromising defence of democratic values and fundamental rights and freedoms and a commitment to greater involvement of civil society and local communities.
in writing. − the developments in the north africa and middle east region are representative of the ineffectiveness of the enp, but they are also representative of the new challenges facing the eu as a regional actor. the creation of a zone of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the eu's founding values, must remain the guiding principle for relations with the enp partner countries, in this particular case the mediterranean countries. i consider it essential, firstly, to review the indicative programmes for the period 2011-2013 taking into account the most urgent needs and, at the same time, to make the financial instruments, in particular the enpi and the emcdda, more flexible in order to directly support civil society entities. on the other hand, i call for the union for the mediterranean to be strengthened, both in terms of funding and in terms of the commitment of the member states, as a privileged forum for the exchange of good practice, where a clear mediterranean policy should be established and based on political partnership, the principle of ownership and conditionality. finally, i think it is urgent to find solutions to end the war in libya and to prepare in advance a package of measures for the reconstruction of the country in the post-conflict era.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it defends the most basic civil rights, in particular those relating to freedom of expression. this kind of attitude must have consequences for the relationship between the eu and the states which perpetrate these attacks on freedom. without strong political pressure on these countries, there will hardly be any peace. the eu must always be at the forefront of the fight against such attacks and must remain vigilant to future developments in the region.
in writing. − women have been a key voice in the uprisings for more democracy, rights and freedoms in north africa and the middle east. unfortunately, the libyan and egyptian regimes use violence as a way to intimidate and degrade women, making them very vulnerable. i strongly condemn the treatment of women protesters detained in tahrir square by the egyptian army. it is urgent to take immediate action to end this degrading treatment and to ensure that all security forces and the army are clearly instructed that torture and other ill-treatment will be the subject of a full investigation. it is up to the egyptian authorities to take urgent action to end torture, to investigate all cases of abuse against peaceful protesters and to end the trials of civilians in military courts. i call on the commission and the governments of the member states to oppose vigorously the use of sexual assault, intimidation and persecution of women in libya and egypt.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns the libyan and egyptian regimes for resorting to sexual aggression in the context of the conflict underlying the current revolutions. women have played a significant role in these revolts, fighting and risking their lives for more democracy, more rights and more freedoms. it is essential to ensure that the changes taking place in north africa and the middle east contribute to the end of discrimination against women and to their full participation in society on an equal footing with men.
in writing. - unfortunately, we all know that periods of turmoil and armed conflict exacerbate situations of violence against women and children and lead to an increase in sexual abuse. such practices are absolutely reprehensible, as are the use of torture, gang rape, 'virginity tests', threats and ill-treatment (physical and psychological) directed at women as a way of intimidating, frightening or limiting their rights to political participation (as is happening in egypt and libya). the european union, and this house in particular, must be a bastion of defence of fundamental rights and human dignity, denouncing in a clear and unequivocal way all their violations. i strongly condemn the violence against women - and children - in the recent conflicts in the middle east and north africa and call for the most appropriate measures to be taken to protect their most fundamental rights and dignity.
in writing. − the fight against human rights violations is the main objective of the european union (eu) and its institutions. in this context, the use of sexual violence in any conflict has been condemned and rejected by these bodies in the strongest terms. in fact, many of the resolutions adopted by this parliament have been condemning violence against women. this joint motion for a resolution deals with this violence, particularly sexual violence against women in north africa and the middle east. the reports that have come down to us of violence in the context of war and repression are too gruesome and cause us enormous revulsion and outrage. the perpetrators of such behaviour cannot go unpunished, even if they are protected by dictators or backward minds. i therefore vote in favour of this report which condemns all forms of violence against women in all regions, calls for severe penalties for rapists and makes it a priority for the eu to support women in their emancipation process, particularly those who had the courage to take part in the so-called 'arab spring', and to encourage their full participation in the civic life of the societies in which they live.
in writing. - in the debate on the use of sexual violence in conflicts in north africa and the middle east, the european commission committed itself to advocating uncompromisingly for an end to rape and sexual slavery, which are recognised as crimes against humanity and war crimes by the geneva convention. as stated in the motion for a resolution we have tabled, it is essential to insist on effective diplomatic action that vigorously opposes the use of sexual assault, intimidation and harassment of women in north africa and the middle east or elsewhere. we also stress the importance of recognizing the role of women in revolutions and insist on the need to guarantee women's rights, including their participation in the new democratic, legal, economic and political structures of these societies, and to put an end to the age-old discrimination of which they have been victims.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns gender-based violence and, of course, the use of sexual violence in conflict. i agree with the need expressed in the resolution to give priority to human rights in the european neighbourhood policy measures as an integral part of the democratisation process; and also with the need for the european union to share with these countries its experience in equality policy and the fight against gender-based violence.
in writing. − i welcome this report which deals in the most appropriate way with important issues such as the new status of the bank after the lisbon treaty, the draft bonds, the implications for the eib's financing project during the economic crisis, its financing after 2013 or its activities outside the eu, including development projects, green projects and how to be stronger in relation to offshore financial centres.
in writing. − first, i would like to congratulate the eib on all the work it has done, and in particular on the support it has given to smes through its financing which has been progressively increased since 2008 and also through the creation of the progress european microfinance facility in march 2010. i also welcome the commitment to the idea of project bonds, which are intended to improve the risk rating of bonds issued by companies themselves and used to finance european infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and information technology. it is desirable that the commission and the eib should make concrete proposals for project bonds. it should also be underlined the important work that the eib can do in the context of the eu 2020 strategy by simplifying procedures and maximising multiplier effects in order to attract public and private investors. as regards eib financing outside the union, i believe that an agreement between the eib, the ebrd and the commission is desirable in order to strengthen cooperation in all the countries where they operate, with the dual aim of making their lending policies coherent with each other and with the union's political objectives.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib), established in 1958 under the treaty of rome, is a financial community of the european union (eu) whose primary objective is to contribute to the balanced development of the eu through economic integration and territorial cohesion. i welcome the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty which give greater flexibility to eib financing. i would recall the amendments introduced by the lisbon treaty clarifying the objectives of eib financing in third countries, which should support the general principles guiding the eu's interaction with the rest of the world as specified in article 3 (5) teu, and which, under the guarantee, should support the objectives of the eu's external action. the financial institution is required to submit a report on its activities to the european parliament (ep) for approval each year. this motion for a resolution concerns the analysis of the report for the year 2009. this document, which not only refers to the improvements resulting from the adoption of the new statutes, but also refers to the eib's activity.
in writing. − we recognise the importance that eib loans - the european development bank - can have for development and social progress, given the low interest rates and long repayment periods it provides. but it happens that their choices are not always as transparent and clear as they should be. on the other hand, the countries and regions most in need are not always the most favoured with their loans. there are therefore some criticisms, suggestions and proposals in this report, which we support. but we do not agree that the eib should become a mere instrument of the european union for implementing its policies, including the problems of economic and social cohesion and social development, which must be taken into account in the community budget and its structural and cohesion funds. the eib can of course support and reinforce these aspects, but it cannot be a substitute for the community's budgetary policies.
in writing. − the european investment bank's annual report 2009 highlights the key role the eib has played in supporting smes, especially in this time of financial crisis and economic recession. the eib focused on three areas where the crisis has hit europe hardest: small and medium-sized enterprises, convergence regions and climate action. the importance of smes to the european economy is indisputable, and i welcome the increase in eib financing for smes over the period 2008 to 2010, which totalled eur 30.8 billion, and the establishment of the european microfinance facility, which is endowed with some eur 200 million by the commission and the bank.
the author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i remember very well the first time i saw a work by the chinese artist ai weiwei. i was, at the time, an art history professor in lisbon, and in an anthology of contemporary artists, around the year 2000, there was his huge chandelier the size of a room, toppled and broken. a work that is at once very beautiful and in some ways poignant and sad. it's an image that in a way reflects an image of china as well: able to present itself as sumptuous, as rich, as developed, and able to present itself to the world, as in the opening ceremony of the olympic games. a sophisticated china, but also has something seriously broken inside of it. that thing is the will, the free opinion and the spirit of the chinese people themselves. we are gathered here today to discuss the case of artist ai weiwei, to ask the chinese authorities to release him, to allow him to communicate with his lawyer and his wife, and to make accusations, if they have any, that are credible, and not last-minute fabricated accusations. we gather above all to say that the spirit of creativity, imagination and humor of this artist will surely survive for much longer than that of his prisoners.
the disappearance of ai weiwei must be seen in the context of the desperate increase in political repression by the chinese authorities. all for fear that the revolutionary spirit in the arab world would infect chinese society. but the european union can make a difference. human rights violations by the chinese authorities must be a constant theme in the political dialogue with china, which must be rethought to ensure that concrete results are achieved, including the reconsideration of judicial sentences that have kept human rights activists in prison. the negotiations on the new framework agreement cannot leave aside the question of human rights, subordinating everything to commercial interests. the european union, even in pursuit of its economic interests, has a responsibility to support activists like ai weiwei, like liu xiaobo, like hu jun, who have been fighting courageously for urgent political reform in china, against oppression, for human rights and basic freedoms. china, as a permanent member of the un security council, has human rights obligations under the un charter and must be accountable for them, not only to its citizens, but to the world.
i believe that it is bad enough that tibetans do not have the right to self-determination in their native territory, that there is pressure to deny them their most basic democratic rights outside their country, in the exile that many have painfully chosen or to which they have been forced to go. i think one of the arguments that has always been used by those who were critical of the tibetan resistance was that this resistance, centered on the figure of the dalai lama, for many qualities that he had, was not democratic. now that the tibetan resistance is on the way to democracy, it is simply unfortunate that nepal, in a country where so many tibetans live, has prevented democratic elections from taking place normally. but i also ask my colleagues to understand one thing: our governments are often the first to give in to the pressure of the chinese government to create a reality in accordance with the dreams and wishes of the chinese leadership. we have to understand that in nepal the government probably wanted to do the same thing. so to pressure the nepalese government to do something different, we also have to start by, here at home, pressuring our governments to show a bigger backbone when talking to the chinese authorities.
the author. - the wave of repression taking place in zimbabwe is a clear sign of the problems that will precede the next elections. the international community and in particular the political actors in the region, such as the southern african development community, cannot tolerate the harassment and arbitrary detentions committed by zanu-pf and the security forces it controls against civil society activists and mdc members and supporters and must demand improvements in respect for human rights before the elections are held. the police raids on the offices of human rights organisations such as the zimbabwe human rights forum and several others, allegedly in search of subversive materials, and the detentions of several ngos, the mdc itself, as well as students and young activists, which have been intensifying since february, are tactics of an unacceptable campaign of intimidation. instead of launching a campaign of terror against those who refuse to petition against the restrictive measures imposed by the european union on mugabe-linked leaders, zanu-pf leaders should pay more attention to the lessons of the arab spring and allow for truly free elections.
author. - mr president, we all know that the 2008 agreement implemented in 2009 for the sharing of power between robert mugabe and morgan tsvangirai or zanu-pf and the mdc was not the ideal agreement, it was not the best of all possible worlds agreement, it was the possible agreement to try to advance, at the same time, the situation of human rights and democracy in zimbabwe. and the truth is that robert mugabe and his allies have tried everything to make this deal not work. pressure, intimidation and attempts to break the opposition movement, now in the majority in the lower house of parliament. a few minutes ago it was reported that there were attacks and violence perpetrated on people who were gathered at the memorial where mdc militants were. it is essential that the european union keeps its eyes on what is happening in zimbabwe, that it does not give in to this latest ploy by robert mugabe to appoint an ambassador without going through the constitutional mechanisms of his country and that it also ensures that the sale of diamonds does not revert to the profits of mr mugabe and his allies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the current sales dynamics do not allow the fluctuations in the cost of production factors, including fuel, to be reflected in fish prices, which is also due to the current import policy. average first sale prices have been stagnating or declining for several years without this being reflected in a decrease in prices to the final consumer. the current common organisation of the market in fishery products has not contributed sufficiently to improving prices at first sale or to a better distribution of value added in the value chain of the sector. the economic situation of a large number of companies has deteriorated in recent years, leading to the disappearance of many of them, and there is a real risk that thousands of fishing businesses will disappear and thousands of jobs will be destroyed due to the increase in fuel prices. the small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries are particularly vulnerable, accounting for more than 90% of the fleet in some member states (such as portugal). in this context, the commission's attitude of inertia and refusal to take the necessary measures, which the commissioner has confirmed here today, is absolutely reprehensible. the commission only conceives of one solution to the problems facing the fisheries sector: the indiscriminate slaughter of the fleet, that is, to cure the disease by killing the sick. it is important to say that this past culling, without taking into account the specificities of the fleets, the state of the fishery resources in each case and the consumption needs of each country, has not solved any of the problems facing the sector. it has merely concentrated ownership and activity in the sector at eu level. emergency measures must therefore be adopted to provide an immediate and adequate response to the socioeconomic needs of the sector, such as the creation of a guarantee fund, shared at community level, to guarantee the stability of fuel prices and the use of all the possibilities and financial margins of the community budget to finance extraordinary measures to support the sector. but in view of the structural trend towards higher oil prices and also the requirements of environmental sustainability, measures are also required to ensure the viability of the sector in the medium/long term. mechanisms are needed to improve the first sale price and promote a fair and appropriate distribution of value added across the value chain of the sector. the eff needs to provide effective and substantial support for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets, in particular in terms of improving gear selectivity, replacing engines for safety, environmental protection and fuel economy reasons. in addition to the tax measures that can be adopted at member state level, community responses are needed in order not to aggravate the inequalities that already exist between member states and are increasing in the face of the serious economic and social crisis that particularly affects the most vulnerable economies.
i would also like to add my voice to those who have expressed concern here about the low incomes of fishermen, aggravated by the historic fuel prices, particularly in recent months. as has been well said here, fuel costs have a very high impact on the survival of our small and medium-sized shipowners and are aggravating, with particular gravity, the already fragile incomes of fishermen. this rapid rise in prices is also having profound negative effects: fewer trips to sea, poverty incomes for fishermen, aggravated by the low prices paid at first sale, increased imports of aquaculture and fishery products from third countries to the european market and a consequent abandonment of the activity, due to financial difficulties, with more job losses. in this context, to avoid a further worsening of the crisis, action is needed, and action must be taken quickly and in depth on the problems of fisheries. the commission must therefore respond positively, with short- and long-term measures, to the difficulties facing the sector and the serious loss of income suffered by our fishermen.
, in writing. other european fishermen, and especially those living in member states facing greater financial difficulties such as portugal, are in a difficult economic situation, which has been aggravated by the increase in fuel prices. to deal with this situation, the commission needs to adopt emergency measures to help fishermen. the commission should therefore allow for a transitional period of three years for the aid that member states can grant to fishermen to be increased from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000. in addition, the european fisheries fund (eff) should provide aid to fishermen, in particular for improving the selectivity of fishing gear and for replacing engines, for reasons of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy. in the context of these measures, special attention shall be given to small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing. finally, it is crucial that there are regulatory mechanisms to improve the first sale price and to promote a fair and appropriate distribution of value added through the fisheries value chain in a way that values the prices paid to producers.
the rapporteur. - actually, this report wasn't done by me. i am an accidental and supervenient rapporteur, since the original rapporteur left this report and i, as chairman of the committee and in accordance with the rules, took it over. in addition to being the accidental rapporteur, i am also an embarrassed rapporteur because i did not actually vote for it and i have the most serious objections to its content. but things are as they are, and i have no choice but to assume, with gallantry, this charge that has been given to me. as we know, this report on the granting of exceptional trade preferences to pakistan has its origins in a decision of the council of the union, which instructed the commission to make a proposal to parliament and the council. in the case of exceptional preferences which are not compatible with the wto rule of non-discrimination, either positive or negative, a waiver, a derogation from the wto, must be obtained in advance before these trade preferences can be granted. the commission nevertheless submitted the proposal to parliament and the inta committee, which i chair and for which i am the incidental rapporteur, decided to proceed with the discussion and vote on the report. that is the result of that vote which we are bringing to the house. the subject, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, has proved to be a contentious one in the committee on international trade of this parliament, both as to whether we should use trade preferences as a means of emergency aid to a particular country, and that was the pretext which justified this proposal from the commission, and as to the duration of these trade preferences, as to their extension, and finally as to the conditions to be imposed on the beneficiary country, namely pakistan. although the committee voted by a majority on the commission's proposal to grant these exceptional preferences to pakistan, the fact is that the international trade committee also voted on several amendments to limit the impact of these trade advantages granted to pakistan, including, among others, amendments and approval of a safeguard clause in case imports from pakistan increase too much due to the reduction or elimination of import trade tariffs. other amendments relate, for example, to requiring pakistan not to create or remove existing restrictions on exports of raw materials. in conclusion, it should be borne in mind that our efforts here may prove to be totally in vain, for we may lose them if we do not obtain the waiver from the world trade organization, which we do not know at this moment when or if it will be granted. in any case, even if this effort of ours proves to be futile, it will at least be an excellent opportunity to discuss the meaning, if any, and the limits of using exceptional commercial advantages as a means of emergency aid or as a means of political gratification of a particular country as in this case. we are in danger of setting dangerous precedents, or worse, of making commercial preferences a political instrument which may have to be guided by much more objective criteria, much less discretionary and short-term than in this case.
first of all, i would like to congratulate in particular the work of our colleague from the epp, mario david, whom i represent here today because i am absolutely unable to be here in this chamber, and i would like to say that we have always considered that support for the victims of the floods in pakistan is an ethical and moral imperative. we therefore strongly support all the measures that have been taken in the traditional humanitarian aid direction. we believe that we must continue to work to help stabilize the situation of so many millions of people affected. what we cannot accept is that the european union's trade policy is now considered to be a proper and appropriate instrument for humanitarian aid. the truth is that this has two dire consequences: firstly, within the european union, in particular for the countries of the south and their textile and clothing industry, which is now highly weakened by an economic, social and financial crisis unparalleled since its accession to the union; and secondly, at the global level, in the wto negotiations, where this opening up of the world's largest trading bloc, the european union, to these possible pakistani exports could completely upset the negotiations. it is no accident that they find themselves in the impasse in which they find themselves. it is therefore natural that in such a situation we should say, in view of the history of this regulation and the difficulty it has had in these eight months of intensive negotiations for which we have worked with the most constructive proposals, that we will now unfortunately have to take a position which is only a position in support of the amendment which basically provides for the end of this proposal for a regulation as we know it. we must do so now, not out of any lack of solidarity with pakistan, but because we believe that humanitarian aid must be given in its proper place and in its proper way.
mr president, commissioner, with this proposal for a regulation we are once again faced with a clear and regrettable display of hypocrisy on the part of the commission. it is a hypocritical exercise in bringing into the realm of humanitarian aid what is strictly the commercial interests of a few, pure and simple business. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today, the justification is humanitarian aid to pakistan. yesterday, it was counterterrorism aid. yesterday, as today, the real intention is only one: to obtain trade concessions that will mainly benefit the large european importers. and that is true, even though the report of the committee on international trade now wants to gild the pill with vain safeguards that do not change the essential. these trade concessions, as the report itself acknowledges, will harm the european union's textile industry and the countries and regions most dependent on it. if this impact would always be severe in an already very weakened sector deeply affected as it was by the liberalisation of world trade which is concentrated in regions with high levels of unemployment, poverty and exclusion and low economic diversification, it becomes more severe when these regions are located in member states, as is the case in portugal, faced with a very serious economic and social crisis that may soon be aggravated by the illegitimate intervention of the imf and the european union, in preparation. i would remind you that in portugal the assembly of the republic unanimously adopted a resolution against these trade concessions. measures are needed to protect the european textile sector and its employment. we see nothing from the commission in this area.
the rapporteur. mr president, welcome to commissioner de gucht, although with a little delay which we understand, but i think there is still time to express the commission's final positions. as an incidental rapporteur and, once again, malgré moi, of this report, i would like to make only two comments. the first is that this discussion has shown as much or more division on this matter than in the committee on international trade itself, and the second is that the merits of the proposals adopted in the committee on international trade, some of which the european commission considers inconclusive - the plenary tomorrow will decide on the merits of these proposals and the commission's objections. let me make just two final remarks. there are two things that parliament and the international trade commission cannot be accused of. firstly, that we have tried to block this matter, despite the fact that it is dependent on a waiver from the world trade organisation and that we are actually voting on a matter which may be rendered useless by the absence of this waiver. the truth is that the international trade commission decided to go ahead despite this. secondly, we have taken into account all the amendments which have been tabled by the commission, because the commission - which is the body and institution with the right of legislative initiative - has put forward its proposal, but then the terms of the request for a waiver submitted to the world trade organisation do not coincide with the proposal which the commission has put forward to parliament. and then there was the council's commitment, which also differs from the commission's initial proposal. the committee on international trade has not regarded any of these things as an obstacle to taking the discussion and voting on this matter into its own hands and has taken account of all these amendments which have been tabled by both the commission and the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the question is simple. this is an initiative of the committee on international trade, of which i am chairman, and it is in my capacity as chairman that i put the question on which the political groups have reached consensus. i am pleased to put this question, which has been approved by the political group coordinators in my committee, and which seeks to obtain from the european commission an answer to a set of concerns about the state of play of the free trade agreement negotiations between the european union and india which have been ongoing since 2007. the importance of this initiative goes without saying. indeed, one of the great innovations of the lisbon treaty was to give the european parliament not only the right to give its final assent to international trade and other agreements after they have been negotiated, but also the right to be informed of all the steps of the negotiations from the very beginning. this means that the european parliament has the power and the duty to follow the negotiations - in this case, trade negotiations - and to intervene politically through the parliamentary means at its disposal (hearing, resolutions and also oral questions) to learn about the progress of these negotiations. that is why the committee on international trade wishes to hear from the commission, which, we must say, has given us a great deal of information on this subject, but i think that publicly there needs to be an answer to a set of questions, seven of which are in this oral question about, in particular, the progress that has been made on a set of sensitive issues, such as public procurement, on the negotiations on intellectual property rights in connection with generic medicines, on the request that the commission has made to the council of the union for a mandate to negotiate overseas investment, on something in negotiation on culture and cultural services, on whether there is already a concrete assessment of the effects of a possible free trade agreement with india on the main european industries, whether there is a quantitative assessment of the foreseeable benefits and losses to the european union from this trade agreement and finally whether the commission will take parliament's views into account in this matter. the questions are written, they are in the document we have tabled and i think they are clear enough to get us to make progress on public information on this important trade negotiation between the european union and one of our major trading partners.
madam president, the deep weakening of the productive apparatus of the weakest economies in the european union, such as portugal, which is the result of an integration based on competition between the strong and the weak, between the rich and the poor, and conducted in accordance with the interests of the major economic groups of the european powers, is aggravated by the liberalization and deregulation of world trade, conducted by the same groups in their own interests. in the face of the visible disaster caused by this path, the european union, instead of grabbing its way, continues to give signs of wanting to force a breakthrough. it is in this context that we must look at this agreement, the most comprehensive ever negotiated. a fundamental change in the current trade policies is urgently needed, with international trade being oriented towards complementarity rather than competition, towards the establishment of fair and equitable economic relations, mutually beneficial, serving the development of peoples and countries, and not just some economic and financial groups. the multifaceted crisis we face calls for a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which free trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism, clearly makes impossible.
i am the parliament's rapporteur on refugees and i have to say that this mission has become, in recent times, a depressing, if not sometimes macabre, mission. last month i reported to the house the death of more than a hundred refugees off the coast of lampedusa, and now, barely recovered from the news of the disappearance of 600 refugees leaving libya, we know that more than 60 have died at the sight of nato ships and european navies. let us not think that there is nothing to be done in the face of these tragedies. there is much to be done and much we have to do, and we are obliged to do so by the international conventions we have signed. i'll give you three examples in the 20 seconds i have left. the council must end the codecision on the resettlement of refugees which this parliament voted for and which provided for emergency mechanisms to be used on such occasions. the proposal for a humanitarian corridor to remove refugees from libya on the back of unhcr must be put on the table and nato must fulfil its mandate in the 1973 resolution to protect civilians, which means to carry out rescues at sea. the failure to help, let us not forget, is a crime, and it should not be done in our name.
madam president, on a subject which is necessarily broad, i would like to make only two brief remarks. the first is to draw attention to the threats facing many forest ecosystems today. among others, i highlight the spread of invasive alien species, pests and forest fires. some of these factors have shown some recurrence, particularly in convergence regions. a rigorous study of their impacts is required, as well as the best ways to increase the resilience of the forest to this set of biotic and abiotic threats. to this end, sufficient financial resources should be channelled through community support programmes and measures to assess the ecological and phytosanitary status of forests and their restoration, including reforestation, giving preference to native species and mixed forests for the sake of their resilience and biodiversity. a second note to draw attention to the enormous diversity of natural conditions and consequently of forest ecosystems that occur in europe. it must be recognised and valued, valuing its multifunctionality and its potential to generate employment and development in the rural world.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their excellent work. i would like to turn this speech mainly to heading 5, the administrative and operating expenditure of the various institutions, and to recall that the volume of administrative and operating expenditure represents less than 6% of the annual budget of the european union. despite this number, i consider it essential that the principles of economy, the principles of efficiency and the principles of effectiveness be applied. and, moreover, budget implementation must promote and encourage savings, and at the same time we cannot in any way encourage and promote the use of all the money from each heading. it is important to advocate rigor, austerity and, at the same time, the minimum means for the european parliament to achieve the objective of legislative excellence. and as far as interpretation and translation are concerned, i think it is essential and crucial that members can express themselves and work in their mother tongue. it's basically to give shape to the motto: united in diversity. i believe that instead of purely incremental budgets, we should have zero-based budgets at the beginning of each parliamentary term and, moreover, the budgets of the institutions should be multiannual budgets. control cannot mean bureaucracy, because this is always an unnecessary cost. the principle of trust in the institutions must prevail. finally, discharge cannot be an exercise in discussing fundamental policies which require broad consensus and, in particular, the revision of the treaties. i therefore consider it inappropriate, for example, to discuss workplace issues in discharge reports.
chair of the inta committee. − mr president, as chair of the committee on international trade i have a mandate from the committee to ask for the postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution. this is of course irrespective of my personal position in this regard.
in writing. - i approve this proposal in accordance with the discharge procedures, proposing appropriations for each heading.
in writing. - i welcome the thorough analysis carried out in this report by the court of auditors and call for a permanent exchange of good practice between the institutions and for effective interinstitutional cooperation in the development and implementation of the integrated management system. the report points to some situations which still need to be reviewed and which i hope will be taken into account. i therefore support and welcome the rapporteur's conclusions.
in writing. − having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of justice for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors' audit in its annual report. i also welcome the implementation of the key performance indicators of the annual management plan and the fact that the objectives set for 2009 have been achieved, as well as the decision of the ombudsman to publish his annual declaration of interests on the website. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's conclusions and congratulate the ombudsman on the quality of his annual activity report and on the inclusion of the follow-up given during the year to parliament's previous discharge decisions.
in writing. − having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions of the audit of the court of auditors, which states in its annual report that the audit did not raise any significant observations. i also welcome the annual publication of the declarations of financial interests of the elected members of the institution, with relevant information on posts and remunerated activities or professional activities subject to declaration. finally, i support the rapporteur's conclusion that the european data protection supervisor should include in its next annual activity report (for the financial year 2010) a chapter detailing the follow-up given during the year to parliament's discharge decisions.
in writing. − having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − in recent years there has been an unprecedented increase in the number of agencies, which is why the interinstitutional working group and the future special report of the court of auditors, with a reflection on the performance of these agencies and a comparative analysis of their costs, are crucial. it is worth mentioning the numerous shortcomings noted by the court of auditors and the importance of their rapid correction. i therefore support the rapporteur on the need to improve the transparency of forecasts and the accountability of projects, to strengthen their recruitment commitments at the level of the financial decision and the work programme, to correct shortcomings and to increase objectivity and transparency in recruitment of staff, as well as implementation and compliance with the financial regulation to which they are subject. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and urge all agencies to include the conclusions now adopted.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2009, together with the college's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision postponing the discharge to be given to the director of the european police college in respect of the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i welcome and support the rapporteur's remarks and the work of the translation centre for the bodies of the union. i also welcome the centre's decision to carry out a mid-term review of its 2008-12 strategy and its excellent performance, which has resulted in a 41% increase in its services compared to 2008.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2009, together with the centre's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training in 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. with a view to more efficient budgetary management in the future, the centre should present a comparison of its operations during the discharge year and during the preceding financial year, in order to enable the discharge authority to assess its performance more effectively from year to year.
in writing. - i welcome the decisions listed in the court of auditors' report on the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions. i commend the centre for introducing a performance measurement system (pms) and for introducing changes to its recruitment processes following the court of auditors' comments in its 2009 report, which have contributed to improved transparency. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on his remarks and the work carried out by the european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2009, together with the centre's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i welcome the decisions listed in the court of auditors' report on the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions. i congratulate the agency on the adoption of a multiannual work programme for 2011-2015 which will allow for better organisation and achievement of the objectives it proposes, and on the creation of an internal audit function (internal audit structure eai) specialising in supporting and advising the executive director and the agency's management. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on his remarks and the work carried out by the community fisheries control agency.
in writing. − the implementation of control and inspection measures relating to the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp) in their respective exclusive economic zones should be a responsibility of the member states, which should be provided with adequate and sufficient means for this purpose, to which the eu should contribute. we do not deny the need for cooperation, coordination and coordination between the various member states in the control and combating of illegal fishing, but we were sceptical about the added value of the creation of this agency, because we believe that some of its powers clash with the competences of the member states. this is a centralisation which, moreover, does not contribute to the necessary effectiveness of control activities. we also expressed our disagreement with the representativeness of the agency's management board, its operating model and the excessive weight the european commission assumes in it, particularly in the voting system. we now also see that, although the agency has a budget of eur 10 100 000 (annual accounts for 2009), the member states are already being denied the possibility of updating and increasing the community's share in the financing of control activities, as proposed by us recently in this parliament, and which was unfortunately rejected by the majority.
in writing. − member states should be responsible for implementing the control and inspection measures relating to the application of the common fisheries policy in their respective exclusive economic zones. to this end, these countries should be provided with adequate and sufficient means, to which the eu should contribute. we do not deny the need for cooperation, coordination and coordination between the various member states in the control and combating of illegal fishing, but we were sceptical about the added value of the creation of this agency, because we believe that some of its powers clash with the competences of the member states. this is a centralisation which, moreover, does not contribute to the necessary effectiveness of control activities. we also expressed our disagreement with the representativeness of the agency's management board, its operating model and the excessive weight the european commission assumes in it, particularly in the voting system. we now also see that, although the agency has a budget of eur 10 100 000 (annual accounts for 2009), the member states are already being denied the possibility of updating and increasing the community's share in the financing of control activities, as proposed by us recently in this parliament, and which was unfortunately rejected by the majority.
in writing. − this report approves the closure of the accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2009, renewing the discharge given by the european parliament on 5 may 2010 in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2008. as the court of auditors has obtained sufficient assurance that the annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, and as the delegation of the committee on fisheries, which visited the community fisheries control agency in june 2010, was very satisfied with the overall state of the agency's activities, in particular with the implementation of the joint deployment plans, i consider that this parliament should approve this report.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the community fisheries control agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i welcome the decisions listed in the court of auditors' report on the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on his remarks and the work carried out by the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european aviation safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european centre for disease prevention and control in 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. i consider it a very important institution for strengthening and developing disease surveillance in europe and for assessing and disseminating the current and future risks that infectious diseases pose to human health. i regret, however, that the principle of annuality has not been respected and that there is a high level of transitions.
in writing. - i welcome the decisions listed in the court of auditors' report on the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions. i would also like to highlight the important contribution of the centre to the measures taken to combat the h1n1 pandemic in 2009, in particular through the publication of interim guidance on the use of specific influenza vaccines during the h1n1 pandemic in 2009. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on his remarks and the work carried out by the european centre for disease prevention and control.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2009, together with the centre's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − the european chemicals agency (echa) contributes to improving the quality of life of european citizens by ensuring the safe use of chemicals and by encouraging innovation. in view of the increasing complexity and intensity of the use and research of these substances, i believe that this agency will tend to become increasingly important, and that an even closer look at how it manages the budgetary appropriations at its disposal is therefore warranted. the court of auditors has certified the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2009 and the operational difficulties that almost always arise when starting up such bodies appear to be being overcome. i hope that the agency will fulfil the purposes for which it was set up and strengthen both its budgetary rigor and its planning capacity.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european chemicals agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european environment agency for 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. i consider it a very important institution, particularly in terms of adaptation to climate change, assessment of ecosystems, sustainable consumption and production and prevention and management of natural disasters.
in writing. − the european environment agency (eea) aims to provide credible and independent information on the environment. the agency's mandate includes two aspects: supporting the community and the member states of the european union in formulating economic policy that integrates environmental issues and sustainability; and coordinating environmental information through the eionet network. assessing the state of the environment, identifying environmental trends, including economic and social factors underlying environmental pressures, monitoring environmental policies and their effectiveness, and forecasting future trends and problems are all relevant issues that warrant careful monitoring by the eea.
in writing. the rapporteur makes some considerations and recommendations which we consider relevant to the budgetary procedures to be taken into account by the european environment agency. at the same time, it points to major shortcomings in the agency's recruitment procedures, which call into question the transparency of the process, in particular: the vacancy notices did not indicate the maximum number of candidates to be placed on the reserve lists, the questions asked in the written tests or interviews were not decided before the examination of applications, the decisions of the selection committees were not sufficiently documented, the minimum grades for the call for an interview or for placing on the reserve list were not defined in advance and the minutes were not complete. these are serious failures which should prompt urgent corrective action. this agency can and should play an important role in obtaining objective, reliable and comparable information on the environment in europe and in making it available in an accessible and accurate manner. it would be important, however, to ensure better cooperation, coordination and coordination with the competent institutions in the member states, promoting synergies and better circulation of information.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa) for 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. i believe that the efsa should continue to ensure scientific excellence and independence and that measures are therefore necessary regarding the declaration of interests of the efsa staff and experts working for the efsa.
in writing. − the work of the easa covers all stages of food production and supply, from primary production to the supply of food to consumers, and to the safety of animal feed. it shall collect information and analyse new scientific developments in order to identify and assess all possible risks to the food chain. it may carry out a scientific assessment of any matter that may have a direct or indirect impact on the safety of the food supply, including aspects related to animal health, animal welfare and plant health. if food safety is one of the main requirements and one of the main concerns in a market of some 500 million consumers, the way in which it is assessed and studied requires a high level of professionalism, commitment and exemption. the union has been advocating the ability to monitor food from grass to grass, but it must be recognised that much remains to be done.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2009, together with the authority's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european food safety authority discharge in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - the observatory has a very important role to play in the european context. it is responsible for providing objective, reliable and comparable information enabling the european union and the member states to have a comprehensive view of the phenomenon of drug dependence and its consequences. the accuracy of the information justifies the same accuracy in the accounts. i hope that the observatory will not fail to carry out its task faithfully and accurately and that it will do so in accordance with the best criteria of budgetary management. and may the information it collects help the member states to follow closely the causes and consequences of this scourge and to point out ways and solutions to free their citizens from the addiction that destroys them and their families.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2009, together with the centre's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - the environmental disasters of the erika and prestige ships have clearly exposed the need to do more for maritime safety at european level. the agency, appropriately based in lisbon, has important expertise in this area and deserves support in its demanding tasks. however, the agency should endeavour to improve its planning and monitoring policies.
in writing. − this report approves the closure of the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2009. having obtained reasonable assurances from the court of auditors that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2009 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i consider that this parliament should approve the report under consideration. however, it is emphasised that the court of auditors once again recorded a high number of budgetary transfers in 2009 (49 in 2009, 52 in 2008 and 32 in 2007) and that the agency should improve its planning and monitoring to reduce the number of transfers. it would also be desirable in the future for the agency to draw up a table to be annexed to the next report of the court of auditors, presenting a comparison of its operations carried out during the discharge year and the previous year, thus enabling the discharge authority to assess the agency's performance more effectively from year to year.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european maritime safety agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. − the dematerialization of people-to-people contacts and the increasing use of various internet platforms recommend that cybersecurity be included in the category of essential subject for the european union. the internet is, in fact, a constant source of information, and citizens increasingly use it for a wide range of everyday tasks. such a circumstance exponentially increases the risks of privacy violation and unlawful use of third party data, information, sounds or images. the court of auditors has certified the reliability of its accounts, but points out that several corrections need to be made.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the executive director of the european network and information security agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. the european railway sector is suffering from the incompatibility of national technical and safety rules, which is a serious handicap for its development. it is the responsibility of the agency to close that gap and to set common safety objectives. the fact that we have two offices means that we have to pay extra for the work that we do, and perhaps there is no reason for that. the delay in implementing a number of activities has called into question the principle of budgetary annuality, which has led to the transfer of budgetary appropriations.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european railway agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. the european training foundation (etf) aims to contribute to the development of vocational training systems by strengthening cooperation in the field of vocational training and ensuring the coordination of aid. the activities of the eff cover the countries applying for accession to the european union, the countries of the western balkans, the countries of eastern europe and central asia and the mediterranean partner countries. the issues relating to vocational training involving third countries justify caution in the rigorous application of the available funds.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2009, together with the foundation's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work in 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. the agency has allocated funds to certain measures relating to the health and safety of women workers.
in writing. − the agency is responsible for providing the community bodies, the member states and interested parties with technical, scientific and economic information useful in the field of safety and health at work. this information is essential to enable us to assess the conditions of safety and health at work in the union and the best practices in this field in the european area. despite the court of auditors' assurance that the agency's accounts were reliable and despite the fact that the agency had effectively coordinated the network of agencies during the discharge procedure for the financial year 2009, the rapporteur considered, in particular, that the agency had not provided sufficient information on the comparison of the actions carried out in subsequent years. i think that this information is relevant and should be accompanied by a table to be attached to the next report of the court of auditors, as suggested.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. the european atomic energy community (euratom) is involved in the fields of atomic energy, including research, the development of safety standards and the peaceful use of nuclear energy. by setting up this agency, euratom aimed to ensure a regular and equitable supply of ores, source materials and special fissile materials in the european union. despite the recent concerns arising from the fukushima accident, nuclear energy is part of the european energy mix. the provision of such material to ensure the pursuit of the agency's objectives is therefore essential to the maintenance of the activities of euratom. the rapporteur noted that the agency was effectively integrated into the commission and that it had no independent budget, which prompted reflection on the usefulness of keeping it in its present form. i do not have enough information to make a decision, but i think that the solution which is least costly to the community's coffers and which offers greater efficiency and transparency should be chosen.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2009, together with the agency's replies, i have voted in favour of this decision, which gives the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. although the court of auditors declared the transactions underlying the annual accounts to be legal and regular, it should be noted that the first accounts submitted by the foundation were seriously flawed. in the future, the foundation should implement closure procedures correctly and meet deadlines for the presentation of its accounts through more training and additional resources.
in writing. − the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is a tripartite body of the union, set up in 1975 to contribute to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions in europe. more specifically, it assesses and analyses living and working conditions, gives authoritative opinions and advice to social policy makers and key players, contributes to improving the quality of life and reports on developments and trends, especially those that bring about change. the transparency of the management of human resources raised doubts in the rapporteur, doubts which were corroborated by the other members of the committee on budgets. i believe there is an advantage in dispelling such concerns.
in writing. − eurojust is a european union body that helps investigators and prosecutors across the eu work together in the fight against crossborder crime. it plays a key role in information exchange and extradition processes. the particular importance and sensitivity of these matters justify the agency being provided with the means to pursue them effectively, although, as is obvious, in matters of justice and the suppression of crime, all the means available are always insufficient. the effective management of human resources seems to be the agency's main problem. the fact that 24% of the agency's posts remain vacant and that several senior posts are occupied by non-staff raises fears for the continuity and efficient pursuit of the agency's activities.
in writing. − the tasks of frontex are to coordinate operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management; to support member states in the training of national border guards, including the definition of common training standards; to carry out risk analyses; to monitor the development of relevant research on external border control and surveillance; to support member states in circumstances requiring enhanced operational and technical assistance at the external borders; to provide member states with the necessary support in the organisation of joint return operations. the increasing migratory pressure on the union's borders and the need for coordination between member states justify to a large extent that the agency should be equipped with the appropriate means to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it. however, i share the rapporteur's concern that the court of auditors has found that the cost of prefinancing for border authorities is overestimated by 27%, and that there are excess advances.
in writing. − the supervisory authority is responsible for ensuring the management of the public interest in european gnss programmes and acts as the regulator of these programmes. the competences of the galileo joint undertaking, which expired on 31 december 2006, were transferred to it as from 1 january 2007. the regulation provides for the commission to be provisionally based in brussels and to carry out, among other things, the following tasks, which are currently under review: management, inherited from the galileo joint undertaking, of the contract with the operator responsible for operating the egnos system; coordination of the actions of the member states with regard to the frequencies necessary for the operation of the system; cooperation with the commission in the preparation of proposals for the programme; modernisation of the system; management of all aspects relating to the protection and security of the system; action as the european gnss security approval authority; management of the research activities necessary for the development and promotion of the european gnss programmes. such a role of competence indicates the importance attached to the agency and reinforces the requirement that the agency should align its activities and expenditure with the budget allocated to it and that it should comply with the rules for its implementation.
in writing. − the artemis joint undertaking is implementing the joint technology initiative (jti) in the field of embedded computing systems. this public-private partnership is mainly intended to support the co-financing of research initiatives at european level and to improve cooperation between the different players in the sector. the rapporteur also stresses that the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of information centres to provide information on the use of the internet and the internet for the purposes of the protection of personal data. the initial stage in which the company is still situated makes it possible to have high expectations of its future achievements and to hope that it will justify the investment which is being made in it.
in writing. − the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in response to the perceived need to promote the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union with a view to putting them into practice as soon as possible. like the artemis joint undertaking, it is still in the early stages of its activity. this does not mean that there are no longer any procedures and practices to correct, particularly as regards the budgetary structure, as the rapporteur rightly points out.
in writing. − the joint undertaking aims to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process so that the pharmaceutical sector produces innovative medicines that are more effective and safer. the joint undertaking thus aims to contribute to the implementation of the seventh framework programme and to support pharmaceutical research and development in the member states and countries associated to the seventh framework programme. it encourages the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in its activities and cooperation between the private sector and academia. the embryonic stage in which it is still situated does not allow for a clear view of its future budgetary executions. however, it should in particular continue to complete its internal control and information systems.
in writing. the aim of this joint venture is to modernise the european air traffic management system and to pool the community's research and development efforts under the sesar (european new generation air traffic management system) project. the safety of citizens who increasingly use the services of airlines, as well as of their employees, justifies a particular effort to find the best solutions for managing this type of traffic, as well as the monitoring and comparison of the methodologies already applied in the various member states with a view to the joint adoption of best practices and safe, cost-effective and innovative solutions. like other joint ventures in the start-up phase, sesar has not yet fully put its internal controls and financial information system into operation. you should do so as soon as possible.
in writing. - this report deals with the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of mr luigi de magistris, mep, made pursuant to articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union and article 68 of the constitution of the italian republic, as amended by constitutional law no 3 of 29 october 1993, following a request by the tribunal de benevento for his presence and following an action brought by mr clemente mario mastella, mep, following an interview with an italian media outlet. in view of the established practice in this parliament, considering that judicial proceedings are of a civil or administrative nature and taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i am voting in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of luigi de magistris mep following a summons against him at the benevento court on behalf of clemente mario mastella, member of the european parliament, in relation to an interview luigi de magistris gave to an italian newspaper on 31 october 2009. the committee on legal affairs has taken a position on the matter and adopted a report in which it decided not to waive parliamentary immunity. in fact, it was considered that luigi de magistris was in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament when he made the statements. according to the report, he was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, engaging in political activity and expressing his opinion on a matter of public interest to his constituents. i voted in favour of defending the freedom of expression of members in the exercise of their duties and defending the interest of the european parliament as an institution. i would add, however, that i believe that political leaders in general, including members of parliament, should always speak truthfully and use language that is respectful of those they are speaking to, which is not always the case.
in writing. - this report deals with the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of bruno gollnisch, mep, made following an attempt to arrest him by the french police for questioning by the french judicial authorities in a case concerning the expression of political opinions. the case concerns an accusation of incitement to racial hatred brought by the international league against racism and anti-semitism (licra) following a statement published on the website of the national front of the rhône-alpes council, of which bruno gollnisch was president. in view of the established practice in this parliament and the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i agree with the rapporteur's position and i am voting in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr bruno gollnisch.
in writing. - bruno gollnisch asked the ep to defend his parliamentary immunity in the context of measures he considers to be inhibiting his freedom, applied by the french authorities in the context of the judicial investigation of a criminal complaint (plainte avec constitution de partie civile) lodged by the international league against racism and anti-semitism on 26 january 2009 against an unidentified third party for incitement to racial hatred. it is concluded that the case does not fall within the scope of bruno gollnisch's political activities as an mep but rather concerns his activities as a member of the regional council of the rhône-alpes region, a mandate for which he was elected by direct universal suffrage and which is distinct from that of an mep. the investigation carried out has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. intent to harm the member's political activity. i voted in favour of this report, which decides not to defend the privileges and immunities of bruno gollnisch, leaving it to the competent judicial authorities to decide, in compliance with all democratic guarantees, to what extent the french law on incitement to racial hatred has been violated and what the legal consequences may be.
in writing. − this report deals with the request to the european parliament (ep) by the prosecutor at the court of second instance of lyon for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch, following an investigation carried out following a criminal complaint lodged on 26 january 2009 by the international league against racism and anti-semitism (licra) concerning a communiqué published on the website of the national front of the rhône-alpes council, of which bruno gollnisch was president. in view of the established practice in this parliament, considering that the application of parliamentary immunity in this case would defeat its objectives, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i agree with the rapporteur's position and vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr bruno gollnisch.
in writing. - this report also deals with the lifting of the parliamentary immunity of bruno gollnisch at the request of the french public prosecutor's office in order to allow an investigation into an accusation of incitement to racial hatred and, if appropriate, to allow the trial by the french court of first instance, court of second instance and supreme court. the waiver of immunity of bruno gollnisch concerns an alleged offence of incitement to racial hatred arising from a press release of 3 october 2008 by the national front group of the rhône-alpes region, of which bruno gollnisch was president, thus placing the act in question within the scope of the political activities of bruno gollnisch as a member of the regional council of the rhône-alpes region, a mandate for which he was elected by direct universal suffrage and which is distinct from that of a member of the european parliament. the investigation carried out has found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. intent to harm the member's political activity. i voted in favour of this report, which decides not to defend the privileges and immunities of bruno gollnisch, leaving it to the competent judicial authorities to decide, in compliance with all democratic guarantees, to what extent the french law on incitement to racial hatred has been violated and what the legal consequences may be.
in writing. the prespa river basin (prespa park) is shared between greece, the fry and albania. the first is a member state of the european union, the second is a candidate country for eu membership and the third is a potential candidate country for eu membership. albania and the jra have signed a stabilisation and association agreement with the eu, and there is significant employment potential associated with the development of a sustainable economy and green infrastructure which by their nature lead to the creation of local jobs, thus contributing significantly to the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, resource efficiency, sustainable economic development and nature conservation can and should be inseparable and should at the same time strengthen cooperation with neighbouring countries for their integration into the european area. for all the reasons explained above, i approve this proposal for an agreement.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made by the member states to work with non-eu countries to make resource exploitation sustainable. i therefore support the conclusion of the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area, as i believe that this park is important for the development of the three countries sharing it - greece, the fry and albania - as well as for the environment, nature conservation and the unleashing of a whole range of positive consequences that could result from this type of cooperation, in particular the strengthening of good relations in the balkan region.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which aims to establish cooperation between all those sharing the prespa river basin, in order to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and the sustainable development of the park. this agreement demonstrates the successful implementation of the eu water framework directive, for the protection of the environment, for the improvement of the living standards of the inhabitants of the region, as well as for cooperation between the three countries (greece, albania and the fry), reinforcing the good neighbourly relations between the parties in the particularly sensitive region of the balkans.
in writing. − this recommendation concerns the draft european council decision on the conclusion of an agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the area of the prespa national park (classified as such since 1977) and designated as a transfrontier protected area under the declaration of 2 february 2000 by the prespa countries (greece, albania and the republic of macedonia). since the 1970s, the european union (eu), aware of the urgent need to protect and safeguard natural resources, has adopted a legislative package, the most prominent of which is the water framework directive 2000 (wfd). the aim of the agreement is to establish cooperation between the eu and the abovementioned countries in order to promote the sustainable development of the region, in particular through integrated management plans for the prespa river basin and the protection of the ecosystem. at a time when the number of disasters caused by climate change is increasing, i congratulate the council on this project and hope that it will be signed as soon as possible.
in writing. the prespa river basin (prespa park) is shared by greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania. it is of extreme importance as a vital habitat for the conservation of many rare and/or endemic species of fauna and flora, as a nesting place for globally endangered birds, and as a repository of significant cultural heritage. the aim of the agreement is to establish cooperation in order to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the development of integrated river basin management plans. in this regard, the countries involved in the agreement undertake to take the necessary measures, individually or in cooperation, respecting the principles of sovereign equality, territorial integrity, mutual benefit and good faith, with a view to the management of the waters of prespa, the prevention, control and reduction of pollution, the protection and conservation of biodiversity, soil protection, the prudent use of natural resources and sustainable development. we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the prespa park, i.e. the prespa watershed, shared by greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania, is of extreme ecological importance as a vital habitat for the conservation of many rare and/or endemic species of fauna and flora, as a nesting place for globally endangered birds and as a repository of significant cultural heritage. the aim of this agreement is to establish cooperation to ensure integrated protection of the ecosystem and sustainable development of the prespa park area, including the development of integrated river basin management plans. in this regard, the countries involved in the agreement undertake to take the necessary measures, individually or in cooperation, respecting the principles of sovereign equality, territorial integrity, mutual benefit and good faith, with a view to the management of the waters of prespa, the prevention, control and reduction of pollution, the protection and conservation of biodiversity, soil protection, the prudent use of natural resources and sustainable development. we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report is based on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area of the prespa river basin. the european union has long had legislative instruments to protect its waters, notably the water framework directive of 2000, which sets the objective of protecting all waters (rivers, lakes, groundwater and coastal waters) and provides for the coordination of efforts in the case of shared river basins across administrative and political borders to achieve this objective. the prespa water catchment area is shared by greece, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and albania. the jra is a candidate country for eu membership and albania is a potential candidate country for eu membership. in this context, the need arises to establish an international agreement for the pursuit of the objectives of the water framework directive, namely the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services in this area. i voted in favour of this report, which was previously unanimously approved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. the prespa river basin is spread between greece, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as a focus of biodiversity of undeniable ecological interest, which also translates into a natural climate regulator, its protection is worthy of the efforts of the european union, in accordance with the provisions of the water directive (2000/60/ec). according to this directive, when a river basin is concerned that extends beyond the territorial limits of the union, coordination efforts should be undertaken between the states concerned, and to this end an agreement on the protection and sustainable development of the prespa park area was concluded on 2 february 2010, in which the commission, on behalf of the eu, also participated. however, its final adoption by the council requires the approval of the european parliament. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of approving this agreement.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'port state' to cover all ports. a resolution on port state measures, presented by the eu, was adopted at the iotc (indian ocean tuna commission) plenary meeting in busan, south korea, in march 2010 (resolution 2010/11). the eu has also put forward similar proposals in other rfmos with a view to strengthening and aligning its port state measures currently in force with the requirements of the agreement. unfortunately, in many cases they could not be adopted because of the opposition of a number of countries, such as some latin american countries and small pacific island countries. like the rapporteur, i also urge the european commission to continue to press for the adoption of these proposals, since the measures provided for in the agreement will only be truly effective in combating iuu fishing if and when they are applied in a comprehensive, uniform and transparent manner, so as to avoid loopholes that can easily be exploited by iuu fishermen.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement on port state measures to prevent and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i believe that the effectiveness of such measures is essential to ensure the conservation and sustainability of marine ecosystems and, therefore, of the marine exploitation and industry. in order to ensure the efficiency sought, it is necessary that these measures are applied harmoniously by the member states in the control of landings, transhipments and other operations carried out in their ports. i would therefore like to stress the relevance of the proposed point concerning the information-sharing mechanism which should underlie the agreement.
in writing. - illegal fishing is a phenomenon that threatens all the efforts made by the international community and the european union in particular to balance a strong and dynamic fishing industry with the necessary replenishment of fisheries resources. in 2007, the fao fisheries committee agreed on the development of a legally binding international instrument on measures to be taken by port states to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. then, in 2009, in rome, an agreement was adopted which is now intended to be approved on behalf of the eu. i am aware of the importance of this subject, particularly for a maritime country such as portugal, and i am voting in favour of the approval of this agreement.
in writing. − the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao) established in 2001 an international action plan to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (ipoa-inn). in 2005, the fao adopted a set of measures that states whose ports are used by fishing or fish transport vessels should adopt to combat illegal fishing. the preservation of natural resources, including marine resources, is a constant concern of the european union (eu), which seeks to prevent illegal fishing by all means at its disposal. it has therefore closely followed all fao measures and played an active and constructive role, in particular in the preparation of the agreement adopted at the 36th fao conference held in rome from 18 to 23 november 2009. i agree with the rapporteur's position that the european commission should not only sign this agreement but also continue to put pressure on international bodies, including the fao, to adopt the measures envisaged.
in writing. − this agreement was adopted at the 36th session of the fao conference in rome in november 2009, culminating in a process of discussion that was preceded by a set of other agreements and codes of conduct adopted over the past two decades within the fao framework. illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a global threat to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources. for this reason, the fight against iuu fishing should be a central concern of any fisheries policy and an essential element of international fisheries management in the forums concerned. the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thus ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems. experience shows us the good cost-effectiveness and the central role played by port state measures in combating iuu fishing, in conjunction with other instruments. the agreement also supports a broad definition of iuu fishing to include a wide range of unregulated fishing operations. we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this agreement was adopted at the 36th session of the fao conference in rome in november 2009, culminating in a process of discussion that was preceded by a set of other agreements and codes of conduct adopted over the past two decades within the fao framework. we know that illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a global threat to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources. for this reason, the fight against iuu fishing should be a central concern of any fisheries policy and an essential element of international fisheries management in the forums concerned. the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thus ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems. experience shows us the good cost-effectiveness and the central role played by port state measures in combating iuu fishing, in conjunction with other instruments. we therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the objective of this agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu (illegal, unreported and unregulated) fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thus ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems, covering not only fishing vessels but also transport vessels that can be used to transport fishery products. it also supports a broad definition of iuu fishing, including a wide range of unregulated fishing operations. this agreement arises in the context of the international plan of action to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (ipoa-inn), established by the food and agriculture organization (fao) within the framework of the un code of conduct for responsible fisheries. as iuu fishing is one of the biggest scourges of modern fisheries, this agreement is of particular importance, especially at a time when the eu is working on the new common fisheries policy/cfp. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a serious obstacle to sustainable development, as it can threaten living aquatic resources. the agreement on port state measures to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing having been concluded (under the auspices of the fao) and in the absence of the european parliament's approval for a definitive union commitment, i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, as it is a central point of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − the prevention, deterrence and elimination of illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a key priority for the success of the common fisheries policy. the objective of the agreement is to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing through the application of effective port state measures and thereby ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and marine ecosystems. iuu fishing continues to constitute one of the most serious global threats to the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources and the eu has played an active and constructive role in the elaboration of this draft agreement. the parties shall, through the possibility provided for in the international instrument on port state measures, refuse entry into their ports if they have sufficient evidence that the vessel seeking entry has been engaged in iuu fishing or related activities. on the basis of these considerations, i consider the agreement to be an important contribution to the ongoing global fight against iuu fishing and i am voting in favour of its approval.
in writing. - millions of citizens use the right to trade in the eu's internal market, to live, work and move throughout the eu. the eu has legislation that allows crossborder complaints and mutual recognition of national court decisions. but getting a court decision is only part of the process; citizens and businesses must have the right to have those decisions effectively enforced. a necessary component of effective enforcement is that courts can, as an interim measure, act quickly to order the disclosure and freezing of debtors' assets. without such a measure, rogue traders and other debtors may escape their liability by simply transferring their assets to another jurisdiction, thereby denying the creditor effective enforcement of the judgment in the single market. the citizen or small business will have spent money and resources to secure a judicial decision and will end up having to go to the courts of another member state, with no guarantee of success or justice. this report thus indicates the need for an effective regime for the freezing and disclosure of debtors' assets and as such i approve it.
in writing. − there needs to be an effective system to prevent and punish situations of default of payments when they occur between persons whose assets are in different countries, otherwise the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital within the eu will be jeopardising the legal security of european citizens. i therefore welcome and agree with the recommendations to the commission on the proposed measures on the freezing and declaration of debtors' assets in crossborder cases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out a series of measures to help prevent dishonest traders and other debtors from evading their responsibilities by transferring their assets to other jurisdictions, thereby denying the creditor effective enforcement of the court decision in the single market.
in writing. − when the stockholm programme was adopted, the commission was asked to put forward concrete proposals for a simple and autonomous european system for the freezing of bank accounts and the temporary freezing of bank deposits. european law currently allows crossborder complaints and mutual recognition of decisions of national courts, but there is still a need to ensure that the resulting judicial decisions are effectively enforced. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. these instruments are intended to ensure that courts can take swift action by freezing debtors' assets and preventing the movement or transfer of their assets. i therefore welcome and support the rapporteur and believe that these are necessary measures which will ensure greater legal certainty and security and will also help the internal market to function better.
in writing. − opportunism and greed of citizens and certain businessmen lead them to take advantage of the free movement of people and goods throughout the european union (eu) to the detriment of others. despite existing rules such as the brussels i regulation, the european enforcement order, the european small claims procedure and the injunction procedure, it is not always possible - let alone quick - to obtain the effective enforcement of a court judgment in the single market. this report, which contains a set of recommendations to the european commission on the proposals put forward on the freezing and declaration of debtors' assets in crossborder cases, deserves my full support and i hope that by next june we will have a concrete proposal with the measures to be taken in this area.
in writing. − we recognise the need to defend the rights of consumers in the eu internal market, especially the most vulnerable. eu legislation already exists today that allows crossborder complaints and mutual recognition of decisions of national courts, including the brussels i regulation, the european enforcement order, the european small claims procedure and the order for payment procedure. but getting a court order is only part of the process. the report aims to give citizens and businesses the right to have these decisions effectively enforced. a necessary component of effective enforcement is that courts can, as an interim measure, act quickly to order the disclosure and freezing of debtors' assets. this is a necessary measure to guarantee the rights of citizens and smes, which of course does not remove our opposition and reservations about the fundamental aspects of the single market, its nature, objectives and impacts.
in writing. − in the internal market that the european union (eu) has created, it is increasingly necessary to defend the rights of consumers, especially those who lack sufficient resources. the eu has legislation that allows crossborder complaints and mutual recognition of decisions of national courts, including the brussels i regulation, the european enforcement order, the european small claims procedure and the order for payment procedure. but getting a court order is only part of the process. the rapporteur's aim in this report is to give citizens and businesses the right to have these decisions effectively implemented. a necessary component of effective enforcement is that courts can, as an interim measure, act quickly to order the disclosure and freezing of debtors' assets. without such a measure, rogue traders and other debtors may escape their liability by simply transferring their assets to another jurisdiction, thereby denying the creditor effective enforcement of the judgment in the single market. the citizen or small business will have spent money and resources to secure a judicial decision and will end up having to go to the courts of another member state without any guarantee of success or justice.
in writing. − the most important instrument the union has at its disposal to promote growth in the aftermath of the financial crisis is its internal market. at present, union law, in particular in the field of civil justice, is not effectively applied. in fact, the current level of crossborder debt recovery is markedly low, both in terms of the assets of individuals and of companies. this in itself discourages cross-border trade, sending a message of impunity to debtors, and undermines the union's economic performance. in fact, the cost of crossborder debt collection is currently prohibitive for creditors in cases where the debtor has assets in several member states. this is an obstacle to the full functioning of the internal market. it is essential that the european union put an end to this situation and that eu citizens are given effective remedies, if they have a complaint against another citizen or company, measures that simplify and speed up this recovery process. in this context, i voted in favour of this report, in which the european parliament calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals on measures to freeze and declare the assets of debtors and alleged debtors in crossborder cases.
in writing. - the construction of a single market requires that the parties have at their disposal mechanisms enabling them to satisfy their claims throughout the community. this is the reason for the brussels i regulation, which aims to establish a uniform system for the recognition of judgments in the eu. however, it remains extremely burdensome for a creditor to enforce a claim when the debtor's assets are spread over several member states, which, needless to say, poses serious difficulties for the implementation of a genuine single market. the european heritage preservation order (ehpo) and the european heritage declaration order (ehdo) can be good instruments for this purpose. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this proposal in accordance with the discharge procedures, proposing appropriations for each heading.
in writing. - i welcome the continuous improvements in the performance of all those involved in the management of the funds as noted by the court of auditors in recent years. transparency, good governance and accountability of all actors involved must always be a priority and an example for the union. however, the need to create effective responsibility for the member states in their role in the shared management of the union cohesion funds remains, and the introduction of a system for the analysis of the feasibility of data submitted by the national agencies and a system of binding national management declarations remains imperative. it is crucial that member states take responsibility for the correct use of union funds and develop serious and transparent policies of monitoring and simplification.
in writing. - i welcome the court of auditors' assessment in these special reports, since it is through these reports that we can have clearer access to information on the implementation of the funds and the need to reassess or adapt programmes and projects. all information now provided by the court should be taken into account by the union, in particular by the commission as the main body for the implementation and management of the union budget. we must strive for exemplary optimisation of the management and implementation of the funds, based on simplified and transparent rules based on the principle of direct accountability.
in writing. - i approve this proposal in accordance with the discharge procedures, proposing appropriations for each heading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge to the european parliament for 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. i think it would be useful to review the european parliament's budget in the long term in order to reduce costs and create resources for the efficient functioning of parliament, within the framework of the increased powers resulting from the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - i approve this proposal in accordance with the discharge procedures, proposing appropriations for each heading.
in writing. - the decision now adopted reflects, once again, the council's persistent lack of cooperation in the implementation and transparency of its budget. in the interests of transparency, which is necessary for the citizens, and of rigor, i do not consider that the council is exempt from its responsibility to be accountable to the public for the funds placed at its disposal. i therefore support the rapporteur's decision to postpone the decision on the discharge of the council's accounts until the council has provided the information and documents requested by the rapporteur and the complete list of budgetary transfers.
in writing. - i approve this proposal in accordance with the discharge procedures, proposing appropriations for each heading.
in writing. - i welcome the comprehensive analysis carried out by an external consultant, which states that the financial statements of the european court of auditors give a true and fair view of its financial situation and that the funds are being used correctly for their intended purpose. i also welcome the court's audit strategy 2009-2012, which aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits and to increase efficiency through better use of resources. i therefore congratulate the court of auditors on its excellent performance in 2009 and i support the rapporteur in all his conclusions.
in writing. - i am very concerned about the possible mismanagement of the economic and social committee (whistleblowing case) which is now under the scrutiny of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). i support the rapporteur in his efforts to ensure that both the committee and olaf keep the discharge authority informed of the progress and outcome of the case. the allegations now made may have a negative impact on the reputation of the union as they concern the internal functioning of one of its institutions and it is urgent to understand whether the identified dysfunctional practices are limited to an isolated action or represent continuous irregularities. however, i welcome the report drawn up by the court of auditors on the economic and social committee's 2009 financial year and the developments it has brought about, and i follow the rapporteur's conclusions.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors' audit, which states in its annual report that the audit did not raise any significant observations. i also welcome the excellent performance and the high quality of the committee of the regions' annual activity reports. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's conclusions and congratulate the committee of the regions on the inclusion of the follow-up to parliament's previous discharge decisions.
in writing. − the european development funds (edf) remain the main instrument available to the union for the purpose of providing development aid to the acp and the octs and, although implemented under specific financial rules, remain outside the union budget. it is therefore urgent that it be integrated into the union budget in order to allow for greater democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding. this report provides a comprehensive analysis of the budgetary situation for the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs, drawing attention to some important issues that need to be reviewed and implemented, in particular with regard to public procurement procedures, ex ante controls in delegations and internal control systems in partner countries. finally, this report shows once again the long way to go in terms of the management of the edfs and their proper use, and i therefore support all the conclusions put forward by the rapporteur and congratulate him on his work.
in writing. - there is a need for greater coherence in eu development cooperation and aid policy, particularly in relation to the acp countries. this is all the more important as these countries are now facing strong pressure (and even blackmail) from the eu to accept impositions (see the so-called economic partnership agreements) that threaten their interests and compromise the effectiveness of support provided under instruments such as the edf. the rapporteur argues that the integration of the edf into the community budget will strengthen democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding. we stress the warning that this integration of the edf into the general eu budget must not lead to an overall reduction in development expenditure, as regards the two existing financing instruments. we also stress, following a suggestion by the rapporteur, that a study and an evaluation of the best ways of increasing the capacity of the recipient countries to absorb edf support is necessary, which implies from the outset their deep involvement, including authorities and populations, in the design of programmes, the definition of priorities and their implementation. the rapporteur also points out that a thorough knowledge of the appropriate expenditure is also necessary.
in writing. - we know that there is a need for greater coherence in the eu's development cooperation and aid policy, particularly in relation to the acp countries. this is all the more important as these countries are now facing strong pressure from the eu to accept impositions that threaten their interests and jeopardise the effectiveness of support provided under instruments such as the edf. for example, the so-called economic partnership agreements. the report argues that the integration of the edf into the community budget will strengthen democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding. we stress the warning that this integration of the edf into the general eu budget must not lead to an overall reduction in development expenditure, as regards the two existing financing instruments. we also stress, following a suggestion by the rapporteur, that a study and an evaluation of the best ways of increasing the capacity of the recipient countries to absorb edf support is necessary, which implies, of course, their deep involvement, including authorities and populations, in the design of programmes, the definition of priorities and their implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the european medicines agency in 2009, as it contributes to the scrutiny of the use of funds by the european institutions. i do, however, believe that improvements are needed in the identification and management of conflicts of interest and in the procurement procedures.
in writing. − the purpose of the agency is to provide the institutions and authorities of the european union and its member states, in the context of the application of community law, with assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights, and to support them in adopting measures and defining appropriate actions. the main tasks of the agency are to collect, analyse and disseminate objective, reliable and comparable information on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu; to improve the comparability and reliability of data through new methods and rules; to carry out and/or promote research and studies in the field of fundamental rights; to formulate and publish conclusions and opinions on specific issues, either on its own initiative or at the request of the european parliament, the council or the commission; and to promote dialogue with civil society in order to raise awareness of fundamental rights among the general public. i welcome the fact that, having opened an investigation against the agency in 2008, the european anti-fraud office (olaf) closed it without any further action being taken.
in writing. − the joint undertaking's mission is to provide the euratom contribution to the international fusion energy organisation iter and to the broader approach activities with japan with a view to the rapid realisation of fusion energy, as well as to develop and coordinate a programme of activities in preparation for the construction of a demonstration fusion reactor (demo) and associated facilities, namely the international fusion materials irradiation facility (ifmif). among its activities, the joint undertaking shall, inter alia, supervise the preparation of the iter project deployment site, provide the iter organisation with the material, financial and human resources, coordinate fusion research and scientific and technological development activities and ensure the interface with the iter organisation. the court of auditors identified, and the rapporteur stressed, a number of budgetary aspects which need to be improved, in particular those concerning derogations from budgetary principles, the role of the commission's internal audit service, the creation of an audit committee, late payment of members' contributions, and the rules on granting grants.
in writing. - i approve this proposal in accordance with the discharge procedures, proposing appropriations for each heading.
in writing. − the times of crisis we are living in require us to pay particular attention to the way in which eu financial resources are used. the priorities set by this parliament must be fully respected in order to increase the levels of savings by increasingly stringent financial management. the improvement of results will only be possible through continuous self-criticism which will allow the correction of all trajectories deviating from the objectives set by the eu. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the discharge for the financial year 2000 and whether he is prepared to accept the commission's proposal to make a discharge for the financial year 2000 ?
in writing. - i welcome the assistance provided by the european union to this country, as the largest donor of humanitarian aid to the rest of the world, following natural disasters devastating its economy and its people. however, the use of the union's trade policy as a form of humanitarian aid and development aid is deeply wrong. in my view, the commission should never propose such a measure without first quantifying the economic and social impacts in the various regions of the eu. one of the most serious consequences of this measure is precisely in portugal, where the textile and clothing industry represents 11% of exports and 160 000 jobs, and would be profoundly affected by the competition from pakistan.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2008-2013). the european union (eu) is always at the forefront of humanitarian aid. this was the case last summer when floods ravaged large parts of pakistan with enormous human and material losses. in addition to humanitarian aid in the first hours of the disaster, the eu has sought other ways of supporting the economic recovery of that country, which are set out in this proposal for a regulation. however, we must ensure that aspects which could be detrimental to some european trade sectors (in particular in the textile sector) are safeguarded. i also believe that trade preferences are not the right way to help a country in the event of a disaster. these preferences may even set a dangerous precedent. we must not forget that the current economic and financial crisis has placed the companies most exposed to globalisation in a vulnerable position and it is unacceptable that trade preferences should be able to harm them.
in writing. - as we have said on more than one occasion, the tragedy that has befallen pakistan calls for european solidarity. but it cannot be a pretext for calling into question the textile industry in several member states, as is the case in portugal. there are other ways to show solidarity. more effective forms of aid; aimed at the rehabilitation of the affected areas and the improvement of the living conditions of the affected populations; based on an effective and lasting development cooperation and aid policy, which supports the integrated and sustainable development of local communities. but also fairer forms of aid. these trade concessions benefit mainly the large european importers, who are thus satisfied with longstanding claims. but they harm the textile industry and the countries and regions most dependent on it. all this in a context of deep crisis and high unemployment. the commission's proposals are not, of course, a pretext for further redundancies and increased exploitation in european industry, but we cannot ignore the objective difficulties they create, which the report itself acknowledges as an attempt to sugarcoat the situation by introducing safeguards which do not change the essential facts.
in writing. - it is yet another example of the defence of the interests of the economic and financial groups of the european union at the expense of the industry of the countries with the weakest economies. by introducing autonomous emergency trade preferences for pakistan, the european commission is bringing into the scope of humanitarian aid what is strictly within the scope of the commercial interests of some, pure and simple business. it is an exercise in hypocrisy which uses the natural disaster that has struck pakistan to avenge the claims of some of the major economic groups of the european union powers, which will harm the eu textile industry and the countries and regions most dependent on it. this is a serious impact in a sector that has been deeply affected by the liberalisation of world trade, which is concentrated in regions with high levels of unemployment, poverty and low economic diversification, such as several regions in the north and centre of portugal. we therefore supported the proposal to reject the agreement and regret that it was not adopted. but we also supported his return to the commission, hoping that it would still be possible to take account of the position of the assembly of the republic in portugal, which passed a resolution against these trade concessions. the necessary solidarity with pakistan must be genuine aid in cooperation and development aid policies.
in writing. - i voted against granting trade preferences to pakistan by exempting imports from duties on the pretext of last year's floods. i think it is illogical to use exceptional trade preferences, contrary to the rules of international trade law, as a means of emergency aid, which has its own instruments. never before has the european union done this, or for other countries. no other developed country has followed suit (nor have the united states, japan, australia, new zealand, canada). even if the advantages given to pakistan were a kind of prize for its role in afghanistan, i believe that the political instrumentalization of trade preferences sets a dangerous precedent. on the other hand, the trade advantages granted to pakistan will be paid for by the european industries most affected, namely the textile industry in southern europe, and also by the poor countries which export the same products to europe and which will suffer the diversion of european imports to pakistan (such as bangladesh or the north african countries). however, i voted in favour of the amendments tabled, which substantially mitigate the negative impact of the proposal (safeguard clause, one-year time limit and human rights clause).
in writing. - following the floods which devastated large parts of pakistan last summer, the commission has put forward a proposal to extend to pakistan, in the form of tariff exemptions, autonomous trade preferences for 75 products of interest to pakistan (mainly textiles and clothing). this measure, which is presented as a transitional measure but for a period of three years, would have a strong impact on portuguese textiles, which is why i voted against this report. however, since the report has been adopted and in order to minimise the impact on portuguese textiles, i have successfully argued that the duration of the trade preferences should be limited to one year from the date of entry into force of these measures. the duration may be extended, if necessary, following a serious study on the impact assessment on european textiles to be presented by the commission. finally, i also supported, with reference to portuguese textiles, the introduction of a safeguard clause providing that if a product originating in pakistan is imported under conditions which cause, or threaten to cause, serious difficulties to an eu producer of similar or directly competing products, the common customs tariff duties on that product may be re-established at any time.
in writing. the natural disaster that struck the people of pakistan last august has raised our awareness and deserves the solidarity of the european union. the european union must show its support for pakistan and help to minimise the devastating effects of the floods, as it has done in the past, on the basis of its policy of international cooperation and humanitarian aid, in the event of other tragic events. however, attempts to use the common commercial policy to express this solidarity may have undesirable repercussions for the future, in this particular case and in others that may arise. the effects on the internal market are negative for the production of european countries such as portugal. but the international effects are also worrying, as they are creating an exception within the wto and in a key sector for many developing countries. for these reasons, and also because i believe that an impact study should be carried out to assess the intra-community impact of the agreement, i voted in favour of amendment no 43, which rejects the european commission's proposal to grant preferences to pakistan.
in writing. − the current system of foreign direct investment is governed by a myriad of redundant and sometimes contradictory bilateral investment treaties (bits) between member states, and must be replaced within a reasonable period of time by a new framework of modern eu investment treaties, consistent with its cross-cutting policy objectives. i also support the rapporteur's position that he strongly supports the coexistence approach in the commission's draft regulation. it is undoubtedly essential that, through an authorisation process, existing bits of member states continue to be in force and that, under clear conditions, member states are allowed to renegotiate existing bits, conclude those that are pending and negotiate new ones. however, legal certainty will remain relative as long as the transition of the investment protection regime is not completed and the bits in force in the member states are not validated in the light of public international law. i welcome the report, but i would stress the need to continue the debate on this subject in order to improve its legal framework.
in writing. − in view of the harmonisation of the eu's external policy, i agree to change the current system of bilateral investment treaties between member states and third countries. i also share the concern expressed by the rapporteur to ensure legal certainty during the transition process, and this requires the introduction of a time limit for this and the clarification of the conditions for withdrawal of authorization.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, in accordance with articles 206 and 207 tfeu, foreign direct investment becomes an exclusive competence of the union. the commission has already adopted a number of proposals for the creation of a european investment bank, including a european investment fund for smes. the aim is to find fair and effective transitional measures which safeguard the existing bilateral agreements and do not ignore the expectations of investors. we must therefore avoid legal loopholes and ensure a well-balanced transition. i therefore call on all parties to strike a fair balance during the trilogues between the need to protect legitimate expectations and the correct application of the lisbon treaty, with particular attention to the articles on review and withdrawal of authorisation. i congratulate the rapporteur on all the work he has done, but i call for greater thought and commitment.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries, which are within the exclusive competence of the european union under article 207 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) as regards foreign direct investment. without prejudice to the need for existing bilateral treaties in the member states to remain in force, i agree with the rapporteur's position that a high degree of legal certainty should be ensured during the transition period, as well as with the three grounds for withdrawing the authorisation for the existence of a bilateral treaty: conflict with eu legislation, partial or total redundancy in relation to an existing union agreement with the same third country, and whether such redundancy is not specifically mentioned in the latter and what may constitute an obstacle to the development and implementation of the union's investment policies.
in writing. − trade policy is another area where member states have been removed from competence and the eu has become solely responsible. this is the basis of this proposal for a regulation, namely the application of article 207 (1) tfeu, which provides for the exclusive competence of the eu in the field of foreign direct investment, within the framework of the common commercial policy. the importance of trade policy and investment policy as instruments for promoting the interests of a country and its people, in view of their specific characteristics and conditions, is therefore all too evident. the damage caused by trade and investment policies which do not take due account of the interests, circumstances and constraints of the country, and which are basically decided by the major eu powers (who have gained decisive weight as the eu has been strengthening its powers), in defence of the interest of its major economic groups, is also all too evident. the regulation, among other important aspects, is intended to give the commission the power to withdraw authorisations, to ask member states to negotiate or to denounce bilateral investment treaties (bits) and to approve new bits. these are reasons for our vote against.
in writing. - it is known that the european union has exclusive competence in the area of external trade policy, which underpins this proposal for a regulation, through the application of article 207 (1) tfeu, which provides for the exclusive competence of the eu in the field of foreign direct investment, within the framework of the common commercial policy. but in general the european commission's positions do not respect the interests of all the member states in the same way. the importance of trade policy and investment policy as instruments for promoting the interests of a country and its people, in view of their specific characteristics and conditions, is therefore all too evident. the damage caused by trade and investment policies which do not take due account of the interests, circumstances and constraints of the country, and which are basically decided by the major eu powers (who have gained decisive weight as the eu has been strengthening its powers), in defence of the interest of its major economic groups, is also all too evident. the regulation, among other important aspects, is intended to give the commission the power to withdraw authorisations, to ask member states to negotiate or to denounce bilateral investment treaties (bits) and to approve new bits. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. this is in line with article 207 (1) tfeu, which provides for the exclusive competence of the eu in the field of foreign direct investment, within the framework of the common commercial policy. in a world of globalised transfers of goods and capital, and as a logical consequence of the union's common commercial policy, the investment policy of the member states must also be coordinated and decided at union level. this means that the current system, which is a myriad of redundant and sometimes contradictory bilateral investment treaties (bits) between member states, must be replaced within a reasonable time by a new framework of modern eu investment treaties, consistent with its cross-cutting policy objectives. the transition to a union investment policy, given the risky and far-reaching nature of foreign direct investment, is a long and complicated process. it is of the utmost importance to ensure a high degree of legal certainty during the transitional period.
in writing. − since the eu has exclusive competence under the tfeu in the field of foreign direct investment, it is necessary to provide the union with the means to move from a diffuse perspective to a harmonised approach. in this connection, solutions must be found to avoid legal uncertainty during the transitional period, without, however, jeopardizing the objectives which guide community action.
in writing. − according to article 207 (1) tfeu, the eu has competences in the field of fdi, and this type of investment is directly related to the new common commercial policy. the treaty of lisbon entered into force at a time when many bilateral investment agreements with third countries had expired and no transitional provisions had been defined to ensure the evolution in an integrated manner towards future agreements with exclusive competence for the union. i welcome the fact that a thorough analysis of all the bilateral agreements currently in force with third countries has been carried out and that a common strategy has been adopted by all the member states. as stated in this report, it is essential that the rules established are transparent, known to the main political actors and evaluated over a period of up to 10 years. at a time when transactions in goods and capital are increasingly globalised, it is important that the european union adopts a common investment policy, in line with the strategy defined by all member states.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on international trade (a7-0053/2011), i support its position at first reading and endorse the commission's proposal to ask the commission to submit its proposal to the committee again if it intends to substantially amend it or replace it with another text.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts being made to promote prosperity beyond the eu's borders, as i consider our help to be important in enabling certain third countries to cope with their balance of payments crisis and to restore external debt sustainability. in this context, and in view of the economic and social difficulties encountered as a result of the armed conflict of august 2008 and the global financial crisis, i support the proposal for additional macro-financial assistance to georgia to support its economic stabilisation process and to cover its balance of payments needs. i also believe in the positive effects that such macroeconomic assistance will have on georgia's relations with the member states, as well as in the key role it will play in the successful implementation of reforms by its government.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the mobilisation of the second tranche of macrofinancial assistance to georgia is justified and appropriate. although the georgian economy is recovering, this additional support will help georgia to cope with the economic consequences of the conflict with russia and the global crisis and will support the government's economic reform programme.
in writing. - georgia has faced serious problems recently, in particular following the military conflict between georgia and russia over the breakaway regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. the option of georgia's accession to the european union, repeatedly stated by president saakashvili, is still far from being considered a realistic possibility, given that georgia does not meet the objective requirements that would allow it to aspire to such a desire. that said, i believe it is to georgia's advantage to show that desire and to seek to conform to european standards. i therefore support the provision of additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia and hope that it can be used in such a way as to bring real benefits to its people.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's macrofinancial assistance to georgia. the european commission has proposed €46 million in aid for the country following the armed conflict with russia, which has been aggravated by the global crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's financial assistance to georgia to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008 and to extend it to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2008.
in writing. − in considering this proposal for additional macrofinancial assistance, the comments we made on the decision to grant the previous macrofinancial assistance to this country remain valid and relevant. we have always advocated that the eu should provide solidarity aid to countries in need and that this aid should be directed to projects that serve the interests of their populations. however, eu aid has shown little solidarity. the interests of big business and financial capital and the great powers almost always override genuine and effective solidarity. with georgia, it's no different. it is important to note that the proposed financial assistance is mainly intended to finance the imf recommendations and its policy of structural adjustment, i.e. the insistence on the same neoliberal policies that led to the economic and financial crisis that this country is facing. we also share the same reservations and concerns about possible progress towards the militarization of the caucasus region, following tensions with russia, given the region's energy wealth and geostrategic importance, which is being coveted by the eu and its monopolies.
in writing. − the european union's macro-financial assistance is intended to help cover georgia's external financing needs, identified in cooperation with the imf in the context of the imf stand-by arrangement of usd 1.17 billion in force since october 2008. the proposed assistance will be provided half in the form of grants and half in the form of loans. the additional macro-financial assistance should contribute to helping georgia cope with the economic consequences of the conflict with russia and the global crisis and support the government's economic reform programme. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the financial assistance in question and because i agree with the need, although the financial assistance is not controversial, to ensure a model of monitoring the implementation of this aid which allows the european parliament and other institutions to know the results of the application of this money.
in writing. - i supported the granting of this additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia, amounting to eur 46 million, because i considered it justified, first of all to help the country overcome the economic and social difficulties resulting from the conflict with russia.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, exactly one year ago we voted in this parliament our part of the codecision for the resettlement of refugees and in that codecision we had an emergency mechanism to be used in the case of refugees who were under armed attack or who were victims of natural disasters. a year later, this codecision was not finalised by the council, and my job as rapporteur on refugee resettlement became a job of getting support for this codecision. we got 600 votes in favor of it being a job, first frustrating, depressing, and now desperate. my job as a refugee resettlement rapporteur cannot be to come last month and say that 150 people died on the coast of lampedusa and now there are reports of 600 missing and more than 60 dead in sight of nato ships and the european navy. that can't be my job. the council must end this codecision because there is a lot to be done to resettle refugees. we can of course ask mrs ashton to say that a humanitarian corridor must be opened to bring back the 8,000 who are still in tripoli. they have unhcr id, they're 8,000, not many. we must tell nato to implement the 1973 resolution, which says: protect civilians. that means the same thing in benghazi, in misurata and in the mediterranean. it means rescuing castaways. and as far as schengen is concerned, i want to say one thing. the response to ad hoc schengen suspensions, to unilateral schengen suspensions, can never be a systematic community suspension of schengen. that's not killing the idea in the first place. that's taking the idea and applying it, generalizing it. it can't be. on the one hand, resources must be made available for the resettlement of refugees. do you know how much money the member states of the european union made in 2009 from arms sales to libya alone? 343 million people. do you know how much we have in the european refugee fund? 100 million of them. if we had the same amount in the european refugee fund as we have made in one year from arms sales, we would be very happy. and hungary, which was the first country in the world to have a coordinated action to resettle its refugees in 1956, has very particular responsibilities, historical responsibilities to act also in this refugee crisis. we cannot complain about a lack of funds in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by saying to commissioner cecilia malmström that i share the just praise that president barroso has given her for the work she is doing in this area. the fact that we are going through a turbulent period of migratory pressure cannot be used as an excuse to undermine one of the greatest achievements of european integration, which is precisely the schengen area. schengen is synonymous with freedom of movement and this reality cannot and must not be reversed, but rather protected, strengthened and developed. i also agree that good control of the external borders is essential. when it does not, the security of the schengen area is weakened, the credibility of the union is undermined and mutual trust is destroyed. i therefore welcome the recognition by the european commission in its communication last week of the importance of the schengen area and the commitment to its strengthening and development. i agree with president barroso that there is a need for greater solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states. the problem is not so much the schengen rules as the way in which the member states apply the rules without responsibility or solidarity. and that is why we need a genuine schengen evaluation mechanism. this parliament is willing to work loyally to create such a mechanism, a mechanism which does not have double standards, that is, which is no more demanding of the candidate countries than of those who are already members of the club. but, commissioner, i'm worried about you. i am concerned about the silence of the council presidency at the beginning of this debate on this mechanism, as i am concerned about the council's silence for a year on the mechanism for the resettlement of refugees, as has already been mentioned by mr rui tavares. the council is the one institution in the three institutions which is not doing well in this area, and it is good that it gets on with it as quickly as possible.
, in writing. the events on the island of lampedusa, which have arisen as a result of the popular revolutions in north africa, have created a humanitarian crisis, with the arrival of more than 20 000 tunisian migrants between january and april. the italian government has been unable to respond to the numerous asylum applications and the sudden arrival of thousands of illegal migrants. the schengen convention, signed in 1985 and now incorporated into the eu treaty, is considered one of the greatest expressions of european integration. it is therefore important not to forget its basic principles, which, if corrupted, jeopardise the effectiveness of the schengen area. the correct application of the schengen agreements is imperative, in the spirit of solidarity, mutual information and coordination. the humanitarian crisis we are witnessing today must be solved urgently, but by the legal means provided for by the schengen rules. the distinction between people who are entitled to international protection, such as refugees, and economic migrants is of the utmost importance in order to protect those who really need protection. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
, in writing. it is known that the commission adopted on 30 january 2009 the current proposal for a regulation on textile fibre names and the corresponding labelling of textile products. the aim of the proposal is to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products with a view to encouraging the development and use of new fibres. the proposal facilitates the process of adapting legislation to technical progress by converting the three existing directives into a single regulation, avoiding the transposition of purely technical updates and reducing the time between the submission of an application and the adoption of a new fibre name. the majority of meps support the simplification of the existing regulatory framework, which encourages innovation in the textiles and clothing sector and also allows users and consumers of textile fibres to benefit more quickly from innovative products. in its first reading position adopted on 18 may 2010, the european parliament approved by a large majority 63 amendments , including rules on marking of origin, indication of animal-derived materials, use of language-independent symbols and a revision clause, but the council did not accept all of them. it is important that you accept several proposals, including those on origin labelling. we therefore support the majority of the positions adopted here.
mr president, commissioner, in the analysis of the banks in 2010, it was universally recognised that one of the problems with these tests had been the prevailing national logic, both in the methodology and in the diagnosis and in the choice of criteria. subsequently, in the report which you were kind enough to quote and which i authored, this parliament called for a reinforced european dimension in the management of banking crises. the committee on systemic risk was set up, the eba (european banking authority) was set up, and all this indicated to us that we were finally giving a european dimension to the banking framework. however, the stress tests we are talking about were mentioned by the european council on 24 and 25 march, and i shall read it in english because it is the document i have: member states will prepare, ahead of the publication of the results, specific and ambitious strategies for the restructuring of vulnerable institutions, including private sector solutions ... but also a solid framework in line with state aid rules for the provision of government support in case of need. so what we are doing at the moment is, in the face of stress tests, we are recommending that it be the member states again - without any framework that harmonises the different national practices, that is clear and that is discernible - we are again reinforcing the national dimension of the resolution and correction approach to stress tests on banking. this raises a fundamental question for me. is it not true that with these kinds of methodologies we are missing a golden opportunity to finally give a european rather than a national framework to the problem of regulation?
madam president, how can the eu be a force for law and human security without identifying and trying the criminals who let refugees die in the mediterranean. baroness ashton, bashar al-assad should not just top the list of those subject to eu sanctions but should be put on the list of criminals to be tried by the icc or european courts for the brutal repression of the syrian people. in libya, besides the office in benghazi, the eu should have already employed eufor, not just to support humanitarian assistance to the people under attack as in misrata but to implement the arms embargo via sea or land borders as recommended by this parliament. for that we do not need any other un resolution or request; all we need is political will from member states. if you take the initiative, lady ashton, and confront eu governments with their responsibilities, this parliament will strongly back you. finally, as palestinian reconciliation is a major step... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the european union's foreign, security and defence policies are primarily policies to defend the economic and geostrategic interests of the european powers, increasingly in line with the united states and nato, with development cooperation and aid being relegated to the background. the results are generally disastrous, as is clear in afghanistan, palestine, iraq, libya and other countries. in general, a policy of double standards prevails which protects the economic interests of european arms companies, which have made millions by selling arms to dictators who then used them to massacre their own people or neighbouring peoples. so some of the central questions in this debate are whether the arms sales policy will finally be changed and what will be done in concrete terms to put an end to israel's expansionist and warmongering policy... (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur. − mr president, i have an oral amendment to my own written amendment. in amendment 14 i propose to replace ‘countries’ by the expression ‘countries and territories’. the purpose of this amendment is quite straightforward. it is meant to align the wording of this paragraph with the title of the regulation itself. the title reads as follows: ‘exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union’s stabilisation and association process’. without this correction there would be a discrepancy between the regulation itself and its title. that is why i ask for your support and the adoption of this amendment.
on behalf of the committee on international trade. − mr president, i have a mandate to ask for the postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. in this way, and in view of the importance of trade in foodstuffs, i agree with the proposal for a directive on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs. this system will contribute to better information on the identity of products and to the development of international trade.
in writing. - the proposal simply codifies the rules already in force for the indications or marks which allow the lot to be identified to which a foodstuff belongs, without any substantive amendment on which parliament has to give its opinion. i would point out, however, that i believe it is increasingly important to provide consumers with factual and complete information, particularly as regards batches, dates of manufacture and other information which makes it possible to trace the product back to its origin.
in writing. the report deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a particular foodstuff belongs, the so-called codified text. simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. to achieve this aim, many legislative changes have been made by the commission and this parliament. one area that makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is reading and interpreting the information on the names and marks on foodstuffs. the dispersion and proliferation of such information exacerbates this difficulty and contributes to the decline in the quality of life of the citizen. to avoid this issue, an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of consolidated acts has existed since 1994. i am therefore pleased that we can finally adopt a directive which, by consolidating directive 89/396/eec, makes life easier for citizens through a process of simplification and clarification of eu law.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to codify the rules already in force for the indications or marks which enable the lot to which a foodstuff belongs to be identified. however, it is of increasing importance that consumers have accurate and complete information, especially as regards batches, dates of manufacture and other information enabling the product to be traced from its origin.
in writing. - this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on indications or marks identifying the lot to which a foodstuff belongs concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which adopts the commission's proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. in this way, and in view of the importance of measuring instruments for most areas of human activity, i agree with the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement. this system will contribute to better performance in the areas of public health and safety as well as in administrative operations.
in writing. - having due regard to the opinions of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which conclude that the commission proposal was limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment, i welcome the adoption at first reading of the proposal.
in writing. - the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement, the so-called codified text. simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify the existing texts as regards units of measurement, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to units of measurement concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which adopts the commission's proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, as i believe that the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. - the present proposal concerns the simple codification of the rules already in force for the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles. no substantive amendment is made on which parliament should express a particular opinion.
in writing. this report is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the permissible sound level of motor vehicle exhaust (codified text). simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. to achieve this aim, many legislative changes have been made by the commission and this parliament. one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the continuous change in regulations, sometimes due to the need to update them, but which makes life difficult and reduces the quality of life of the citizen. in 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing no more than 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions more easily understandable. to avoid this issue, an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of consolidated acts has existed since 1994. i am therefore glad that we can finally adopt a directive which codifies council directive 70/157/eec of 6 february 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify existing texts on the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, without any substantive amendment to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the permissible sound level and exhaust system of motor vehicles concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which adopts the commission's proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - the importance of the transport sector to the european economy is reflected in the employment it directly provides for more than 10 million people and the 5% of gdp it represents. its development is essential for the eu's economic growth and for the reduction of physical and psychological distances. on the other hand, as underlined in the white paper on the roadmap for a single european transport area, it is essential that the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by up to 60% by 2050 is met. the report thus seeks to simplify and clarify european union law, which is scattered over many provisions, which have already been subject to various amendments, making them difficult to understand. the transparency of the acquis communautaire is one of the union's objectives, as a way of bringing europe closer to its citizens so that they can benefit from the specific rights conferred on them. the codification of existing legislation will bring the laws of the member states closer together with regard to the establishment of technical rules for the permissible sound level and the exhaust system of motor vehicles, which will promote environmental sustainability at european level.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on protective devices for narrow-track wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. this report is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on front-mounted rollover protection devices for narrow-track wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text). simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the continuous change in regulations, sometimes due to the need to update them, but which makes life difficult and reduces the quality of life of the citizen. in 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing no more than 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions more easily understandable. to avoid this issue, an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of consolidated acts has existed since 1994. i am therefore glad that we can finally adopt a directive which codifies council directive 87/402/eec of 25 june 1987 on the front-mounted rollover protection of narrow-track wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify the existing texts concerning narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on front-mounted rollover protection devices for narrow-track wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which approves the commission's proposal, as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. the report i voted on today concerns the specific community provisions of the european community typeapproval system for agricultural or forestry tractors, which lays down technical rules for front-mounted rollover protection devices on tractors. the codification of community legal texts is an essential procedure to simplify and facilitate the understanding of community legislation by european citizens and thus to ensure the practical application of european directives. in this particular case, the technical rules imposed on the member states allow the european community type-approval procedure, as laid down in directive 2003/37/ec, to be applied to each tractor model. two important points emerge from this report: the simplification and transparency of community law. we are living in a time when the european citizen does not see himself in the community project. i therefore think it is essential to find solutions to narrow this gap and thus show that the european union has the well-being of european citizens as its main objective.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on the installation, operation and identification of controls on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. this report is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the installation, positioning and operation of controls on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors (codified text). simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the continuous change in regulations, sometimes due to the need to update them, but which makes life difficult and reduces the quality of life of the citizen. on 1 april 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing up to 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions easier to understand. to avoid this issue, an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of consolidated acts has existed since 1994. i am therefore pleased that we can finally adopt a directive codifying council directive 86/415/eec of 24 july 1986 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the installation, positioning and operation of controls on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify the existing texts concerning the controls of wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the installation, positioning, operation and identification of agricultural or forestry tractors concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is simply a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which adopts the commission's proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on the braking of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify existing texts on the braking of wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the braking of agricultural or forestry tractors concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which adopts the commission's proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on the manoeuvring space, the access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. this report is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the manoeuvring space and access to the driving position and on the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors (codified text). one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the constantly changing rules. on 1 april 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing up to 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions easier to understand. this was to be enshrined in the conclusions of the presidency of the european council in edinburgh in december 1992. to avoid this issue, an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of consolidated acts has existed since 1994. i am glad that we are finally able to adopt a directive which codifies council directive 80/720/eec of 24 june 1980 and approximates the laws of the member states as regards the driving space and access to the driving position, as well as the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify existing texts concerning access to the driving position and to the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the manoeuvring space, the access facilities to the driving position and the doors and windows of agricultural and forestry tractors concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is limited to the simple codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which approves the commission's proposal, as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - this report, like those on the provisions applicable to tractors, aims to codify directive 80/720/eec of 1980 on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the manoeuvring space, the means of access to the driving position and the doors and windows of wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors. the amendments tabled do not concern the content itself, but are merely formal changes required by the codification process itself, and are presented in 22 official languages. i would like to reiterate the importance of this legal procedure, which simplifies the understanding and clarity of the legal texts of the european union, whose main beneficiaries are european citizens and bodies. a clear and simple europe for full european citizenship is the key factor for developing a sense of belonging, which is essential to the european project.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on rollover protection for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. - the proposal is simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. there is therefore no reason to vote against.
in writing. this report is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the rear-mounted protective devices of narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors (codified text). simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the constantly changing rules. on 1 april 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing up to 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions easier to understand. this was to be enshrined in the conclusions of the presidency of the european council in edinburgh in december 1992. to avoid this issue, an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of consolidated acts has existed since 1994. i am glad that we are finally able to adopt a directive which codifies council directive 86/298/eec of 26 may 1986 and approximates the laws of the member states concerning rear-mounted protective devices for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify existing texts concerning rear-mounted rollover protection devices for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors, without any substantive amendment to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on rear-mounted rollover protection devices for narrow-track agricultural and forestry tractors concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is merely a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which adopts the commission's proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to clarify and simplify council directive 86/298/eec of 1986, as well as the various amendments already made to it, on the subject of rear-mounted rollover protection devices for narrow-track wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors. the aim of this codification process is to make community law more accessible and comprehensible to european citizens. this directive and its amendments lay down the technical rules for the design, manufacture and typeapproval of agricultural and forestry tractors, which require community harmonization in order to create the necessary conditions for road safety. this european harmonization also allows member states to implement the necessary and required measures, whenever the protection of workers when using tractors is at stake, while always taking into account the respect for the treaty and the technical regulations on the protective devices specified in this directive.
in writing. - i approve the new wording of the commission, taking into account the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and, in particular, point 4, the consultative group, composed of members of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission. this group met on 23 november 2010 to examine the above-mentioned proposal submitted by the commission. in examining the proposal for a council directive codifying council directive 92/79/eec of 19 october 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, council directive 92/80/eec of 19 october 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes and council directive 95/59/ec of 27 november 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco, the advisory group unanimously noted that the proposal in question is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore support the proposal for a directive on the structure and rates of excise duties on manufactured tobacco. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. - having due regard to the opinions of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which conclude that the commission proposal was limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment, i welcome its adoption.
in writing. this report concerns an amended proposal for a council directive on the structure and rates of excise duties on manufactured tobacco (codification). simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the constantly changing rules. on 1 april 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing up to 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions easier to understand. this was to be enshrined in the conclusions of the presidency of the european council in edinburgh in december 1992. to avoid this issue, since 1994 there has been an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of the codification which must be carried out in full respect of the eu legislative process. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which codifies council directive 92/79/eec of 19 october 1992 on the structure and rates of excise duties on manufactured tobacco.
in writing. - the present proposal merely codifies existing texts on excise duties on manufactured tobacco, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the consultative group with competence in this field has examined the proposal for a council directive codifying council directive 92/79/eec of 19 october 1992 on the approximation of taxes on cigarettes, council directive 92/80/eec of 19 october 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes and council directive 95/59/ec of 27 november 1995 on taxes other than turnover taxes which affect the consumption of manufactured tobacco. the opinion of that group concluded that the proposal in question was merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i welcome the efforts made to clarify union law in order to make it more accessible to all european citizens. i therefore agree with the proposal for a regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. i think the proposed system of coding, which is based on a data-processing system, is more efficient.
in writing. - having due regard to the opinions of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which conclude that the commission proposal was limited to the mere codification of existing texts without any substantive amendment, i welcome its adoption.
in writing. - this report concerns a proposal for a council regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation (codified text). simplifying the lives of european citizens is one of the european union's (eu) concerns. one of the areas which makes life very difficult for the average eu citizen is the constantly changing rules. on 1 april 1987 the commission recommended that all acts containing up to 10 amendments be codified in order to make community provisions easier to understand. this was to be enshrined in the conclusions of the presidency of the european council in edinburgh in december 1992. to avoid this issue, since 1994 there has been an interinstitutional agreement (parliament, commission and council) on an urgent working method for the adoption of the codification which must be carried out in full respect of the eu legislative process. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which codifies council regulation (ec) no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation.
in writing. - the present proposal is only intended to codify existing texts concerning the face values and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation, without any substantive change to them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this report on the proposal for a council regulation on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation concludes, on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, that the proposal in question is simply a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal, which approves the commission's proposal, as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which concluded that the proposal in question was merely a codification of existing texts without substantive amendments, i endorse its position at first reading and endorse the commission proposal, as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - as the directive is aimed at codifying previous diplomas which are scattered (with advantages in terms of accessibility and familiarity with the legislation), and no changes have been made in the material field, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this proposal to encourage the commission to continue its work on this important dossier, on the basis of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading, and hope that the council will adopt a similar approach to promote access to all relevant information on textiles.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation adopted by the commission on 30 january 2010 aims to simplify the existing regulatory framework by bringing together in a single regulation the three existing directives on the designation and labelling of textile products. at first reading on 18 may 2010, the european parliament adopted by a large majority 63 amendments, mainly technical amendments, aimed at aligning the text with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it also approved substantive amendments, including rules on marking of origin, the indication of materials derived from animals, multi-fibre textile products, etc. the council rejected all the substantive amendments proposed by parliament. the report, which is a recommendation for second reading, has my support because it incorporates the vast majority of the amendments tabled by the ep at first reading (marking of origin, indication of materials derived from animals, multi-fibre textile products, amongst others). these changes will contribute to the promotion and innovation of european industry and will increase the level of information provided to consumers. equally important will be the study to be presented by the commission by september 2013 to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions and chemical substances or mixtures used in textile products.
in writing. - i believe in the positive impact of simplifying and improving the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products, in particular by encouraging the development and use of new fibres. i therefore agree with the adoption of the regulation presented by the european parliament and the commission. i do, however, consider the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to be relevant.
in writing. - the aim of this regulation is to lay down rules on the use of textile names and the corresponding labelling of textile products and on the quantitative analysis of binary and ternary mixtures of textile fibres. this means that directive 96/74/ec is to be transformed into a regulation and that directives 96/73/ec and 73/44/eec are to be repealed. the aim is to make the process of adding new fibres to the list of harmonised names more transparent and to adapt the legislation to technological developments in the textile industry. the amendments reintroduced by the rapporteur cover the issues of identification of the origin of materials, non-textile parts of animal origin, a review clause, a request for a study on dangerous substances, language-independent symbols or codes for fibres, requirements for the technical file to be attached to the application for authorisation of the name of textile fibres, multi-fibre textile products, self-employed tailors, laboratories responsible for testing textile mixtures and the mandatory indication of the composition of felt fibres and felt hats. i voted yes.
in writing. − this recommendation for second reading concerns the council position on the adoption of the european parliament and council regulation on textile fibre names and related labelling and fibre composition marking of textile products. the textile sector is very complex and represents a significant share of economic activity in the member states. the rapporteur has reached agreement on such controversial matters as origin marking, non-textile parts of animal origin, dangerous substances, etc. in addition, it was possible to include a review clause to remove obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market. despite some initial difficulties, an understanding was reached between the three european institutions, which is a very satisfactory result. the council will therefore be able to adopt this legislation quickly, with a view to its entry into force as from january 2012, which would greatly benefit consumers. i therefore welcome the consensus reached and vote in favour of this regulation, which repeals council directive 73/44/eec, directive 96/73/ec of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2008/121/ec of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. the aim of the proposed regulation is to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products, with a view to protecting and encouraging the development and use of new fibres. the proposal facilitates the process of adapting legislation to technical progress by converting three existing directives into a single regulation, avoiding the transposition of purely technical updates and reducing the time between the submission of an application and the adoption of a new fibre name. the rules on naming and labelling are the focus of long-standing aspirations of producers. simplifying the existing regulatory framework can encourage innovation in the textiles and clothing sector, while also allowing consumers to benefit more quickly from innovative products. in the first reading vote in 2010, parliament approved amendments to the rules on origin marking, the indication of materials derived from animals, the use of language-independent symbols and a revision clause, but the council did not accept all of them. it is important that you accept the various proposals now, particularly on origin marking. for these reasons, we have supported most of the positions adopted here.
in writing. the initial aim of this proposal was to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products. the ep also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the presence of materials derived from animals should be clearly indicated in order to avoid the risk of consumers or persons suffering from allergies inadvertently buying products made of genuine hides and skins when they would prefer not to do so. by 30 september 2013, the commission shall prepare a study to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions and chemical substances or mixtures used in textile products. on the basis of that study, the commission shall, where appropriate, submit legislative proposals. this regulation is expected to be adopted shortly by the eu council of ministers and will enter into force on the 20th day following its publication. for rules on labelling requirements, such as those on the indication of non-textile parts of animal origin, there will be a transitional period of two and a half years.
in writing. the new rules for the labelling of textile products are very important to avoid problems for the less informed consumers. the presence of materials derived from animals must be clearly indicated in order to avoid the risk of consumers or people suffering from allergies inadvertently buying products made of genuine hides and skins when they would prefer not to. the initial objective of this proposal is to simplify and improve the existing regulatory framework for the labelling of textile products. it was very important during the negotiations with the eu council of ministers to introduce new provisions in the regulation, such as requiring the indication of animal-derived materials in textile products and the carrying out of a study to determine whether there is a causal link between allergic reactions and chemicals used in textile products.
in writing. − this report includes a recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on textile fibre names and related labelling and marking of the fibre composition of textile products. the council rejected at first reading all the substantive amendments proposed by the european parliament, considering that they went beyond the simplification envisaged. the main amendments proposed by the european parliament and reintroduced in this report, which i voted for, concern matters which i consider of the greatest importance for the european market. among others, i would like to highlight the marking of origin, i.e. the introduction of a requirement to indicate the country of origin of textile products imported from third countries. the current lack of harmonised rules on origin marking places the eu at a disadvantage compared to its main trading partners, such as canada, china, japan and the usa, which require origin marking for imported goods. marking of origin would facilitate consumer choice and contribute to the reduction of fraudulent, inaccurate or misleading indications of origin.
in writing. the european parliament adopted 63 amendments to the commission proposal for a regulation on textile fibre names and related labelling of textile products, some of technical and some of substantive nature, including rules on marking of origin, indication of animal-derived materials, use of language-independent symbols and a revision clause. the technical amendments were accepted by the council in the main, but it rejected all the substantive amendments proposed by the ep. many of these amendments have now been taken up again and it is important that the council can recognise their importance and give them due consideration.
in writing. - i approve this proposal as it amends certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 to allow for its extension until 31 december 2015 and to make certain adjustments following the entry into force of the bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia. in so far as the interim/stabilisation and association agreements (saas) provide for trade concessions in favour of bosnia and herzegovina in respect of the products identified in the autonomous trade preferences, those concessions should be deleted from council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. we are talking about the preferential tariff quotas for baby beef, sugar and sugar products, certain wines and certain fishery products. the end of the trade preferences would deprive the beneficiaries of an objective economic advantage in their trade with the eu. this could have very adverse consequences on the overall economic performance of the entire western balkan region, with the consequent negative repercussions on its internal reform and transition processes. moreover, their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised.
in writing. - we voted today to extend exceptional trade measures such as tariff exemptions and trade preferences for bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo until 2015. under council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009, preferential tariff quotas apply to baby beef, sugar and sugar products, certain wines and certain fishery products. this extension is intended to address the situation of widespread economic crisis, as the end of trade preferences would jeopardise the economic recovery of these states and would have consequences for the entire stabilisation and transition process in the western balkans.
in writing. − this report is based on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 adopting exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's (eu) stabilisation and association process. this is the situation of the western balkan countries, whose indigenous products enjoy duty-free and unlimited exceptional access to the eu market. these measures are intended to alleviate the crisis and to revitalize the economies of these countries. these exceptional measures expired on 31 december 2010 and their non-extension would have serious consequences for wealth creation, jeopardising their economic recovery and internal reform and transition processes. i therefore agree with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur and with the extension of these measures until 31 december 2015 and with the safeguarding of the necessary adjustments under the new bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to extend unlimited exceptional duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the so-called stabilisation and association process. the pretext is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market, on the assumption that the resulting economic development will promote political stability throughout the region. these measures are therefore inseparable from the current situation in the balkan region - in particular in bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo - of severe economic and social crisis. the crisis in this region, which is obviously part of the general crisis of capitalism and is suffering its effects, is nevertheless rooted in a long process of interference, aggression and military occupation of the region, promoted by the eu, its major powers and the usa, with the aim of imposing their economic and political dominance in the region. the secession of kosovo and the role played by the eu in that process are illustrative of this, and the internal processes of reform and transition are the current stage in this process of imposing imperial rule on the region. it is in this context that the proposals now being made should be inserted, analysed and understood.
in writing. - this report aims to extend unlimited exceptional duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the so-called stabilisation and association process. the pretext is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market, on the assumption that the resulting economic development will promote political stability throughout the region. these measures are therefore inseparable from the current situation in the balkan region - in particular in bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo - of severe economic and social crisis. the crisis in this region, which is part of the general crisis of capitalism and is suffering its effects, is nevertheless rooted in a long process of interference, aggression and military occupation of the region, promoted by the eu, its major powers and the usa, with the aim of imposing their economic and political dominance. the secession of kosovo and the role played by the eu in that process are illustrative of this, and the internal processes of reform and transition are the current stage in this process of imposing imperial rule on the region.
in writing. − with regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, the european union granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the eu market to almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the main objective of this measure is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. the resulting economic development will promote political stability throughout the region. the benefits of this regulation shall end on 31 december 2010. in view of the ongoing financial and economic crisis, it is necessary to extend these conditions until 31 december 2015 in order to ensure that the end of these privileged conditions does not lead to stagnation of the economies of these regions, which need good economic conditions to maintain stability and peace in this troubled region of the balkans.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to extend the scope of council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 adopting exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process. the european union has granted unlimited exceptional duty-free access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the main objective of this measure is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. i believe that this exceptional access should have included an impact study on the internal market. these trade preferences were granted for a period ending on 31 december 2010. the end of trade preferences could deprive beneficiaries of an objective economic advantage in their trade with the eu and could have serious consequences for the overall economic performance of all the western balkans, with negative repercussions on their internal reform and transition processes and even jeopardising their economic recovery. the present proposal, which i voted in favour of, aims to extend the validity of these measures until 31 december 2015.
in writing. − through regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, the european union granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the eu market to almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the main objective of this measure is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. these trade preferences, which currently apply to bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo, were granted for a period that was to end on 31 december 2010, but in order not to jeopardise their recovery process, it is now necessary to extend their validity until 31 december 2015.
in writing. - i approve this proposal, agreeing with the main thrust of the whole proposal. in fact, the european union is the largest economy in the world. neither the us nor china is bigger, contrary to what is usually said in the discussion about who is and who will be number one in the global economy. the difference is that the us and china have larger markets, thus offering better preconditions for competition, competitiveness, new services, products and innovations. the need for a single internal market is crucial for europe to take a leading role in the global economy, with a focus on the services sector and the knowledge economy, but at the same time the digital agenda and the digital economy can serve as spearheads to make the internal market a reality for all components of our economy. this requires the ability to form a leadership in relation to broadband and internet use. opening europe to new services and increased mobile traffic creates the foundations for new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services in the broadband framework and, at the same time, ensures the same opportunities for broadcasting.
in writing. − given the importance of the telecommunications and information technology industry at european level in generating greater productivity and competitiveness in our market, i support the radio spectrum programme. i believe that this programme will create the conditions for successful competition with the new technology markets in china and the united states of america and for maintaining european leadership in the telecommunications industry.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents a set of measures which make a significant contribution to universal access to electronic communications, in particular for citizens and businesses in disadvantaged areas such as rural areas or islands.
in writing. − access to radio spectrum is essential to ensure that all european citizens, both in rural and urban areas, can access digital technologies and broadband connections, representing the total volume of this sector of approximately eur 200 billion. therefore, and given the value of radio spectrum, it is urgent to define the priorities of the union in its allocation and use. the digital agenda, the digital economy and this first five-year political programme are therefore intended to stimulate our economy and make the internal market a reality for all its components. the aim is to regain global leadership for the european telecommunications industry and create an impetus for greater productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on the result now achieved, which is the result of a commitment effort between all the groups and which is translated into an ambitious and encouraging report.
in writing. − this report deals with a proposal for a european parliament (ep) and council decision defining the first radio spectrum policy programme. as the world's largest economy, the european union (eu) must keep pace with all processes of modernisation and technological innovation, otherwise it risks being overtaken by emerging economies such as china and south korea. an example of this development is digital communications, whose traffic speed and broadband coverage places it at the forefront of the world. the objectives set by the digital agenda, in view of the constantly outdated speed and volume of data traffic (expected to double every year by 2014), should be considered minimal or reassessed if the eu is to dethrone south korea in this area. considering that the internet is the main instrument for creating better conditions for development and knowledge for citizens in cultural terms, in particular through the dissemination of audiovisual content, i welcome the adoption of this report and i am in favour of the eu playing a leading role in radio spectrum and in the creation of software for development and innovation (d&i).
in writing. −we recognise the need to plan and organise the radio spectrum. this should be done on the basis of cooperation between member states, bearing in mind the public good nature of spectrum, which is important in supporting the design and improvement of a range of services provided to the public, including in public service areas. we do not agree with a radio spectrum management based on the imposition of guidelines by the commission, aimed at making spectrum a lever for the objectives and key actions outlined in the eu 2020 strategy and the digital agenda. nor do we agree with its inclusion as one of the 50 priority actions of the single market act. these are eu strategies and policies which have contributed to the current crisis and which, if they are persisted in, will inevitably aggravate it. while noting that radio spectrum is a crucial public resource for a number of essential sectors and services, the report points the way towards making spectrum rights trading viable and calls on the commission to take steps to ensure that member states allow spectrum rights trading within the european union - guidelines which, again, we do not follow and which we have moved away from.
in writing. − we agree with the need for planning and organisation of the radio spectrum based on the necessary cooperation between member states as a public good, an important issue in improving services, in particular public services. we do not agree with the commission's imposition of guidelines to make radio spectrum a lever for the key objectives and actions outlined in the eu 2020 strategy and the digital agenda and listed among the 50 priority actions of the single market act. we know that these strategies are eu policies that have contributed to the current situation of systemic crisis of capitalism. while noting that radio spectrum is a crucial public resource for a number of essential sectors and services, it puts it on the path to enabling spectrum rights trading and calls on the commission to take measures to ensure that member states allow spectrum rights trading within the european union. we have not yet heard of these proposals, but we have not yet voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − in the current environment, where new technologies play an increasingly important role, it is essential that all european citizens have the same conditions of access to digital technologies and broadband connections, regardless of whether they live in rural or urban areas. the digital agenda, the digital economy and this first five-year political programme, now approved, are therefore essential for the development of the economy and contribute to the development of the internal market. the aim is to regain global leadership for the european telecommunications industry and to increase productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market.
in writing. the report refers to the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme. this programme is a significant step towards ensuring optimum and efficient use of this limited resource. spectrum policy is at the heart of the digital agenda for europe and is key to achieving the policy objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this programme aims not only to create a competitive and dynamic european industry for the provision of broadband wireless services and equipment, but also to create an environment conducive to the development of pan-european services. mobile broadband is playing an increasingly important role in service provision and innovation in other areas such as health, education, culture and public administration. harmonisation of frequencies will reduce the costs of deploying mobile networks and the costs of mobile devices for consumers and will enhance competition and consumer choice. it will also reduce harmful cross-border interference and disruption. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the establishment of the radio spectrum policy programme.
in writing. − in the context of the knowledge economy, communication networks can drive the development of the internal market. to this end, the coverage of the entire community area with a broadband network, including the peripheral regions, is assumed to make a clear contribution to the eu's assertion as an integrated information-sharing space, towards its assertion as a leading digital economy. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this decision because it makes a significant contribution to enhancing transparency by approving the conclusion of an agreement between the european parliament and the commission on the establishment of a transparency register. in a representative democracy it is important that the community institutions are able to establish and maintain an open, transparent and regular dialogue with citizens, representative associations and civil society. following the strengthening of the ep's powers under the lisbon treaty, it has become essential, in the name of transparency, to establish a common register between the ep and the commission for the registration and control of organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of eu policies. it is therefore necessary to amend the rules of the ep's rules of procedure to introduce a mandatory register of lobbyists who are in contact with members of the ep, the european institutions and their staff, which should be accessible to the general public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules following the creation of a common transparency register, because the principle of transparency must apply to all those involved in the decision-making and implementation of the european union's policies.
in writing. − the common register resulting from the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the commission on transparency entails the amendment of the rules of procedure of this house so that it incorporates the new reality and that it can be operationalized from its main internal legal instrument. having voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement, i also support the amendments to the regulation.
in writing. − transparency is a right of citizens and helps to maintain the credibility of the european institutions: the european parliament (ep), the commission and the council. the report, drawn up by mr casini, deals with the need to amend the rules of procedure of parliament following the creation of a joint register on transparency between the ep and the commission. the ep, following the ratification of the lisbon treaty, is a co-legislator in almost all areas. it has therefore decided, in conjunction with the commission, to set up a common register to register and monitor persons and organisations that in any way have an influence on the formulation and/or implementation of european union (eu) policies. in fact, transparency is essential to the functioning of the european institutions, which are often accused of lacking it. european citizens demand high standards of transparency from their representatives, not only in theoretical terms but above all in practice. because the eu must set an example in the transparency of its institutions, i welcome the amendments proposed by the rapporteur to amend parliament's rules of procedure in accordance with the decision of the conference of presidents meeting of 18 november 2010.
in writing. the amendment now proposed to parliament's rules of procedure aims to establish and maintain a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and persons who are involved in any way in the formulation and implementation of european union policies. the existing system on which the proposal is based created and launched by parliament in 1996 (at the time, it was the first eu institution to do so, with the commission subsequently adopting one with similar objectives in 2008) will thus be modified, in a process that cannot be dissociated from the recent problems, involving alleged lobbies, that have affected parliament. the arguments put forward are, however, varied: the new powers of the european parliament after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. transparency of the institutions, of their functioning and of the decisions of their agents must be an intrinsic element of democracy. measures to increase this transparency are therefore welcome and necessary. it is not clear, however, that this will be the result of all the amendments now proposed. while we support some of the proposed measures, we will monitor their implementation with a view to evaluating their future results.
in writing. − it is about establishing and maintaining a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies. building on existing systems, set up and launched by the ep in 1996 and the european commission in 2008, it seeks to address some recent problems, although the report argues for the new powers of the european parliament following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. some aspects are positive, but we have the greatest doubts about other amendments. we support greater transparency, but it is not always clear that this is the aim of all the amendments adopted. we'll see how it's applied in the future.
in writing. - the european parliament and the commission are setting a good example by creating a common transparency register for the accreditation of lobbyists and other interest groups. it would also be important for the council to join this initiative. the requirement for members to list meetings with lobbyists on legislative matters in an annex to their reports is also an important step towards the greater transparency that is required in this type of relationship, to avoid situations that have already happened in the past.
in writing. − the relations between the european institutions and policy-makers on the one hand and civil society, citizens and representative associations on the other are framed and encouraged by the treaty on european union. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the powers of the european parliament, which is now a co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure. this has attracted the attention of an even greater number of representatives of interests, who play an essential role in the open and pluralistic dialogue on which any democratic system is based and who are an important source of information for members of parliament when they are exercising their mandates. it is, however, essential to set up recording and monitoring mechanisms. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament following the creation of a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies.
in writing. − following the lisbon treaty, the european parliament has assumed the position of co-legislator in virtually all areas, and has consequently become the focus of increased attention by lobbyists. in this context, and in the interests of transparency in the dialogue between these interest representatives and the community institutions, the european parliament and the commission agreed to set up a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of eu policies. this requires amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. - between the european parliament and the european commission there are some 4 600 organisations accredited as interest groups. with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's powers were strengthened, becoming a co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure. this is attracting the attention of an even greater number of interest representatives. this report, which i supported, follows the institutional agreement on the creation of a common area for the registration and supervision of lobbyists and other interest groups in the european commission and the european parliament. in order to contribute to greater transparency, a common register for the various institutions will be set up, in which interest groups of representatives of civil society and public authorities will be differentiated. equally important in terms of transparency is the creation of a system of compulsory declaration of all meetings between registered organisations and the members responsible for their legislation, which are recorded in an annex to their reports or recommendations. it would also be important for the council to join this register.
in writing. - this agreement is a first step, albeit an important one, towards greater transparency by making it de facto compulsory for all lobbyists wishing to have permanent access to the ep and the commission to register, and it should contain all the elements enabling the legal structure and financial interests of the organisation to be identified. the existence of a register of organisations and workers involved in eu decision-making and policy implementation thus enhances the transparency of the dialogue between these representatives of civil society and the community institutions, while enshrining binding measures in the event of non-compliance with the code of conduct annexed to the agreement. i hope that a second step will soon be taken towards the creation of stricter standards to ensure the consistent integrity of the union's public administration and the strengthening of its institutional rules. i regret that the council has not yet become a party to the agreement and has not joined the transparency register, which affects the possibility of ensuring the necessary transparency at all stages of the legislative process at eu level. i would remind you that the level of transparency of political institutions is increasingly linked to their legitimacy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules following the creation of a common transparency register, because the principle of transparency must apply to all those involved in the decision-making and implementation of the european union's policies. i believe, however, that this register should be made compulsory and extended to all the european institutions.
in writing. − in 2006, the commission proposed a one-stop-shop for registering lobbyists from the commission and parliament. in a resolution adopted at the plenary session of 8 may 2008, the house welcomed the proposal and called for an interinstitutional agreement to create a joint register between parliament, the commission and the council. in addition, parliament proposed at the time to negotiate a code of conduct for lobbyists and to discuss the sanctions that would be applicable in the event of its violation. under this agreement, only representatives of the registered interests will be allowed permanent access to parliament's premises. however, the common register shall seek to ensure the widest participation of all categories of staff, while respecting their different or special identities. i would point out that the exclusion of the social partners, churches, political parties and local, regional and municipal authorities from the scope of the register is due to their particular characteristics. such an agreement would have to be joined by the council. i believe that parliament and its members should set an example in the transparency of their activities and the clarity of their aims. i voted yes.
in writing. − transparency, the basis of democracy, is a right of citizens and helps to maintain the credibility of the european institutions: the european parliament (ep), the commission and the council. the report, drawn up by mr casini, concerns the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the ep and the commission on a common transparency register. i would point out that the ep was the first european institution to analyse the phenomenon of pressure groups, having launched the register for interest representatives in 1996. in 2006, it would be the commission's turn, through the european transparency initiative, to propose the creation of a single point of contact for the registration of interest representatives in the commission and the ep. in fact, transparency is essential to the functioning of the european institutions, which are often accused of lacking it. european citizens demand high standards of transparency from their representatives, not only in theoretical terms but above all in practice. i therefore welcome the adoption of the draft agreement on the creation of a transparency register, which i am sure will be a significant step forward in the transparency of the european institutions and will help to consolidate the european project among citizens.
in writing. - we share the view expressed in the report that the transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for their legitimacy. it should be easy to control how decisions are made, what their underlying influences are and how resources are ultimately allocated. this transparency of institutions and clarity of action by their agents must be an intrinsic element of an effective and genuine democracy. unfortunately, we know that there is sometimes a big difference between good principles and good practice. the parliament was the first european institution to address the phenomenon of the growing number of lobbies at european level, launching its register for interest representatives in 1996. the european commission has also taken initiatives in this area and a working group was set up in 2008 between parliament and the commission. in 2009, this group adopted a joint declaration and a proposal for a common code of conduct. as early as 2010, a new working group approved a draft agreement for the establishment of a transparency register which appears to ensure the widest possible participation of all categories of operators, while respecting their different or specific identities. it is important to follow up on its practical results.
in writing. the report states that the transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for their legitimacy. it should be easy to control how decisions are made, what their underlying influences are and how resources are ultimately allocated. but there is a big difference between principles and practice, even though parliament was the first european institution to deal with the phenomenon of the growing number of interest groups at european level and, in particular, with the consequences of this development for the legislative process. after several reports and in-depth discussions, parliament launched its register for interest representatives in 1996. however, the european commission has also taken initiatives and a joint high-level working group was set up in 2008 between parliament and the commission. in 2009, this group adopted a joint declaration and a proposal for a common code of conduct. after the european elections, a new working group was set up between parliament and the commission. in november 2010, the working group was able to approve a draft agreement for the establishment of a transparency register, which appears to ensure the widest possible participation of all categories of operators, while respecting their different or specific identities.
in writing. - the european parliament and the commission are setting a good example by creating a common transparency register for the accreditation of lobbyists and other interest groups. the compulsory registration of all lobbyists wishing to have permanent access to the ep and the commission is another important step towards increasing the transparency of relations between these organisations and the european institutions. once again, we regret that the council has not adhered to these provisions.
in writing. − transparency of political institutions is a prerequisite for their legitimacy and an ethical imperative. the parliament was the first european institution to deal with the phenomenon of the growing number of interest groups at european level and, in particular, with the consequences of this development for the legislative process. after several reports and in-depth discussions, parliament launched its register for interest representatives in 1996. in 2006, the commission published a european transparency initiative in which it proposed the creation of a single common register of interest representatives in the commission and parliament. parliament's response to this commission initiative was the report of the committee on constitutional affairs on the development of a framework for the activities of interest representatives in the european institutions, adopted by the plenary on 8 may 2008. subsequently, the high-level joint working group set up to create a common system approved a draft agreement for the establishment of a transparency register in november 2010, and parliament has achieved its essential objectives. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the common register is a step forward towards greater transparency in the european institutions.
in writing. - the activity of representatives of various interests in the community institutions (in this case, the european parliament and the commission) has undeniable advantages, increasing the range of information relevant to the decision-making process and facilitating the knowledge of legitimate and serviceable interests, but it is essential to safeguard the transparency of the action of the community institutions, so as to ensure, in the last resort, their own legitimacy and the full pursuit of their scope, without any diversion of power. i therefore welcome the conclusion of this agreement, which, by making it de facto compulsory to register all lobbyists who wish to enjoy permanent access to the ep and the commission, takes a decisive step towards enhancing transparency in the dialogue between the community institutions and these representatives of civil society.
in writing. - following the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's powers have been strengthened and it is thus a co-legislator in almost all areas under the ordinary legislative procedure, which has attracted the attention of an even greater number of interest representatives who, moreover, play an essential role in the open and pluralistic dialogue on which any democratic system is based and are an important source of information for members of parliament in the exercise of their mandates. in the light of these developments and constitutional context, and in line with their commitment to transparency, the european parliament and the commission agreed to establish a common register for the registration and monitoring of organisations and individuals involved in the formulation and implementation of european union policies. the establishment and maintenance of a register shall build on existing systems, established and launched by the european parliament in 1996 and the european commission in june 2008, complemented by the work of the joint parliament-commission working group, as well as adaptations resulting from experience gained and input from stakeholders. the work on transparency must continue.
in writing. - only through the transparency of political institutions are they given the necessary legitimacy to preserve their characteristic democracy. in view of this, and also considering the importance of this question of legitimacy and of informing citizens for the effectiveness and proper functioning of european policies, i support the draft agreement on the establishment of a common transparency register.
in writing. − the smooth functioning of the internal market depends on the stability of the financial system and the trust placed in financial institutions and transactions by european citizens and consumers. in the wake of the financial crisis, it has become clear that the quality of consumer protection and safeguards in the financial services sector requires tangible and significant improvement, in particular in the areas of control and supervision. an effective and appropriate governance system is required in terms of risk management, compliance, internal audit functions, strategies and policies, as well as processes and procedures. to meet this challenge, which is both important and complex, a set of measures with immediate or medium-term effects is needed. the organisation of the responsibility of the members of the management boards should be clearly defined and carried out in a reasonable manner so as not to compromise the desirable exploitation of business opportunities by financial institutions or the quality of the human resources at their disposal. this report sets out solutions to this problem and i therefore approve it.
in writing. − given the importance of the trust placed by european citizens and consumers in financial institutions and transactions for the stability of our financial system and, consequently, for the smooth functioning of the internal market, i welcome the commission's green paper and the opportunity to improve corporate governance structures across the eu. a number of actions will be needed to ensure the smooth and sustainable functioning of the european financial market, of which i consider it important to highlight a targeted approach to respond to the needs of the real economy, as well as the implementation of a policy of increased social responsibility and risk appreciation by the boards of directors in order to avoid a future financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for an alternative resolution on corporate governance in financial institutions, as it contains proposals to improve corporate governance structures across the eu, taking into account the need for the financial sector to respond to the needs of the real economy, to contribute to sustainable growth and to demonstrate greater social responsibility.
in writing. − the proper functioning of the internal market depends on the stability of the financial system and, consequently, on the confidence of european citizens and consumers in financial institutions and transactions. this implies the need to strengthen and review the current systems which have proved inadequate, with particular emphasis on control and supervision mechanisms. i therefore welcome the conclusions and observations set out in the green paper and the opportunity to improve the governance of financial institutions through the union, and i support the rapporteur in his call for a cost-benefit impact assessment of the commission's proposals, focusing on the need to preserve competitiveness and contribute to economic growth. it is therefore urgent to find mechanisms and solutions that allow for risk reduction and to create a permanent dialogue between supervisory authorities, auditors and institutions.
in writing. − the financial crisis, which began with the collapse of lehmann brothers in 2008 and the subprime lending (abusive securitisation of mortgage debt), has cast very serious doubts on the soundness of financial institutions, forcing governments in both europe and the united states to inject public funds (around 25% of gdp) into the financial sector. this situation led the european commission, through its communication of 4 march 2009, to present a genuine programme of reforms of the regulatory framework and the financial market supervision regime. in view of the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing, it is never too late to redouble our attention to the financial sector, starting with the governance of financial companies, which most of the time do not take into account their customers (borrowers, depositors, etc.). i therefore welcome the commission's green paper and welcome its proposals, which can and should accompany and complement the rules adopted to strengthen the financial system and in the context of the new european supervision. i therefore vote in favour of this report on corporate governance in financial institutions, hoping that it will make a decisive contribution to the soundness of these institutions.
in writing. − the report acknowledges some important aspects and some evidence, such as the fact that the financial sector must respond to the needs of the economy, contribute to sustainable growth and demonstrate social responsibility, and that during the recent financial crisis many institutions around the world have been a heavy burden on the taxpayer. however, having made these statements, it is unable to draw all the consequences of the facts it sets out, leaving it with some inconsequential considerations. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud, and calls for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. we are not ignorant of the contribution that some of these guidelines can make to significantly (and temporarily) improving the functioning of the financial system. but of course they do not change the essential thing, the unsustainability of the system and its predatory nature, the speculative drive, aimed at the central objective of multiplying profits. the report completely fails to address the central issue: the recovery of the role of the state in this area and the rescue of the financial sector back to its social function, with its public and democratic control.
in writing. − the only important aspect the report presents is the recognition that the financial sector must respond to the needs of the real economy, contribute to sustainable growth and demonstrate greater social responsibility, adding further that during the recent financial crisis many institutions around the world have been a heavy burden on the taxpayer. it goes so far as to claim that some financial institutions and supervisory authorities did not fully understand the nature, scale and complexity of the risks they were exposed to. but then the report does not make the necessary corrections, limiting itself to questions of ethics in the behaviour of some players in financial institutions and markets and the creation of an effective and adequate governance system in terms of risk management, compliance with standards, etc. of course these proposals may slightly improve the functioning of the banks for a while, but they do not change the exploitative nature of the system, its central objective of multiplying profits and attempts at speculation. the report therefore misses the central issue: public and democratic control of the entire financial sector. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has reinforced the need to look at ethical issues related to management in financial institutions in a more responsible way. aspects related to the remuneration structure and governance of the remuneration of directors and managers of financial institutions must be governed by ethical and deontological principles, which do not allow situations such as those experienced in the recent past, with the distribution of management bonuses in companies that soon afterwards went bankrupt or revealed tremendous difficulties. the eu must have a long-term productive, social and environmental model that respects the interests of all, companies, shareholders and workers.
in writing. − this report on corporate governance in financial institutions sets out a set of measures to be implemented in the corporations that govern financial institutions. in short, the aim is to draw lessons from the global financial crisis triggered by the collapse of lehman brothers in the autumn of 2008, coupled with the abusive securitisation of us mortgage debt. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the commission has also proposed that the new rules on the application of the principle of proportionality be amended to take account of the new rules on the application of the principle of proportionality. it is a package of measures to which i attach my vote, in the hope that the measures presented by the commission, and now by the european parliament, will be sufficient to prevent situations such as those we experienced in the autumn of 2008, and which are still reflected in the daily lives of the portuguese.
in writing. - i vote against for the following reasons. the report does not assume that the financial crisis of 2007-2008 was systemic in nature. in other words, a nature that arises from the way the financial system is organised, which implies recognising that the organisation of the system strongly influences the decisions of the directors of financial companies, whatever the levels of transparency required of the directors. for example, the report fails to recognise that a very important factor in the crisis was the possibility for commercial banks to exploit financial investments of a speculative nature. this is an organisational issue that remains untouched in this report, and there are no risk assessment committees or professional competence requirements for administrators to prevent the harmful consequences of using household savings for speculative profit. herd behaviour in financial markets is an inevitable phenomenon which inevitably leads to the formation of speculative bubbles and their bursting.
in writing. − no market in which financial institutions take on a central dimension can operate without the confidence of the various economic operators in its proper functioning. to do this, a balance must be struck between the freedom of enterprise of the institutions in what is essentially a private matter and the economic impact that a (new) crisis in the financial system could have on the real economy, on the lives of all as members of a community. in view of the causes of the recent financial crisis, it is necessary to find mechanisms to control investment risk, the composition of the boards of directors and the remuneration of directors, and thus to promote the strengthening of cooperation between public and private supervisory bodies, while ensuring their independence. because this resolution makes proposals in the areas mentioned, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, considering that the multilateral trading system remains by far the most effective framework for achieving fair and equitable trade worldwide. for that reason, achieving a balanced outcome in the wto doha agenda negotiations should be a priority for the union negotiators. the importance of this agreement lies in the fact that india is the seventh largest economy in the world, but it is important to note that despite sustained economic growth, huge inequalities persist. i stress the need to ensure that the acl does not limit the powers that the indian government needs to solve the problems of poverty and inequality. the final acl should include a binding inter-state dispute settlement mechanism, provisions on mediation on non-tariff barriers, anti-dumping measures and countervailing duties, as well as a general waiver clause based on articles xx and xxi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). however, i would point out the need for the commission to include strong and effective safeguard clauses in the acl and to insist during the negotiations that india ratify the npt.
in writing. the world's largest democracy today is a reflection of paradoxes and asymmetries which a history often spanning thousands of years seems to have integrated without difficulty. while the most severe poverty has not disappeared, it is no less certain that the surges and flows of prosperity have propelled india to a more prominent role internationally and revealed that its economy and society are thriving and innovating with speed and efficiency. a free trade agreement between the european union and india could be a happy conclusion to a process of deepening trade interaction. i hope that, beyond the sharing of values, the eu and india will continue to seek to know each other better and to benefit from that knowledge and the gains that come from that contact.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the middle east calls for the eu to take action to help the people of the region. trade relations between the eu and india are significant, with india being india's largest trading partner and largest foreign investor. the eu, in turn, is the main recipient of indian investment abroad and should continue to give priority to a multilateral trading system that favours developing countries. in fact, india is the largest beneficiary of the generalized system of preferences. given the importance of the eu-india strategic relationship and the fact that issues relating to agriculture, respect for human rights (in particular the issue of child labour), environmental protection, compliance with the recommendations of the international labour organisation on social issues and respect for copyright are safeguarded, the conditions are right for us to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - this free trade agreement the most comprehensive to date negotiated by the eu , beyond its concrete content, necessarily leads to a wider discussion on free trade, its role, its objectives and its consequences. free trade is one of the pillars of neoliberalism, emerging in the 1970s, in the context of the so-called washington consensus, as one of the axes of the capitalist system's response to the structural crisis that then (as now) was once again showing signs of itself. it has meant a way for powers with imperialist ambitions to extend their domination of markets and force new and more intense forms of exploitation of workers by competing with labour from very different countries and regions of the world, and thereby forcing a lower leveling of living and working conditions. with this they sought to gain renewed conditions for the continuation of the process of capitalist accumulation. and so it remains. the consequences are obvious: in addition to the pressure on workers and their rights, competition between production systems with very different levels of development tends to accentuate differences, i.e. to strengthen the strong and weaken the weak. this deal won't be any different.
in writing. - the liberalization and deregulation of world trade has caused a profound weakening of the productive apparatus of the weakest eu economies, such as portugal, which are run in accordance with the interests of the major economic groups of the european powers. in the face of the visible disaster caused by this path, the eu, instead of grabbing its way, continues to give signs of wanting to force a breakthrough. it is therefore in this context that we must look at this agreement - the most comprehensive to date negotiated by the european union. what is needed is an urgent and profound change in the current trade policies to take account of the specificities of each member state of the european union, by orienting international trade towards complementarity rather than competition; towards the establishment of fair and equitable economic relations, mutually beneficial, serving the development of peoples and countries and not just some economic and financial groups. the multifaceted crisis we face calls for a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality and the defence of each country's right to produce in a sustainable way - something that free trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism, clearly makes impossible.
in writing. − the eu is india's main trading partner, with trade in goods and services in 2009-2010 accounting for approximately eur 84 billion and the eu accounting for 20.15% of india's total exports and 13.32% of its total imports, but india accounting for 2.6% of the eu's total exports and 2.2% of its total imports. we cannot therefore fail to take into account that the objectives of the common commercial policy must be fully coordinated with the overall objectives of the european union and that, according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union's common commercial policy must be conducted in accordance with the principles and objectives of the union's external action, and must contribute, in particular, to sustainable development, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights. it is therefore very important that the use of child labour and the failure to comply with international social and environmental standards, which is a form of dumping harmful to european companies and workers, should not be forgotten in these negotiations. it is therefore essential that the commission clarifies these points before concluding a trade agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the conclusion of the eu-india free trade agreement. the negotiations between the european union and india for a free trade agreement have made significant progress. india is taking a new position in the international geopolitical context, having gone from a recipient country of development aid to a donor country. this agreement is of particular importance. indeed, if the cooperation between the eu and india, which is now being negotiated, is based on a system of shared universal values, it could serve as a model for cooperation with other countries. i would highlight from the context of these negotiations the emphasis placed on the protection of the sme sector in india, suggesting that all eu-india development cooperation programmes aim to strengthen smes with measures to help finance local market-oriented projects. in india, as in the countries of the union, smes are a motor of economic growth and, consequently, of job creation.
in writing. − given the significant benefits that both sides can achieve, i hope that the negotiations between the eu and india can continue with a view to the swift conclusion of an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive free trade agreement.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. in particular, japan is the third largest economy in the world in terms of gdp. in this regard, it is important to raise investment and trade in services in all trade discussions with japan, ensuring that greater market opening does not compromise the ability of either the eu or japan to take measures in the general interest and does not undermine their provisions on the protection of public services and cultural diversity. i believe that the multilateral trading system, as represented by the wto, remains by far the most effective framework for achieving fair and equitable trade worldwide; i reiterate my strong support for a successful conclusion of the doha agenda negotiations, and am concerned that the bilateral negotiations are disrupting the achievement of this objective. finally, i would stress that effective safeguard mechanisms must be in place if, as a result of the possible liberalisation of trade between the eu and japan, imports increase to the point of causing or threatening to cause damage to european industry.
in writing. − trade relations between european countries and japan go back several centuries and have intensified since the end of the second world war. japan has been the subject of one of the most remarkable success stories and economic and social recovery in world history, and today it is a respected and admirable state. the tragic events that have befallen the country call for our solidarity with our partners. the tenacity and courage that its people have shown in the face of difficulties should be an inspiration to a europe that seems to be too settled and not always sufficiently attentive to what is happening outside its borders. i believe that both sides could benefit from a free trade agreement which would further strengthen their trade relationship and remove the barriers which unjustifiably hindered that relationship. i regret that such a goal still seems to be a long way off and i hope that europe and japan will persevere in their efforts to achieve it.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. trade relations between the eu and japan are not only important but also fundamental to their respective economies (in 2009, they accounted for more than a quarter of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade). in addition, the eu is japan's third largest trading partner. i therefore support this report, although i agree with the rapporteur that the eu should require japan, among other things, to remove non-tariff barriers and obstacles to access to public procurement before negotiations are opened. the european parliament should also send a positive signal in the wake of the tsunami that devastated part of the japanese coast with enormous loss of life and property (not to mention the fukushima nuclear power plant).
in writing. - the resolution is very clear about the view it takes in the opening recitals. the committee welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the wto's multilateral trading system, which is the most appropriate framework for regulating and promoting open and fair trade, while ensuring that the doha round is completed. it is a view of trade, so-called free, as a class instrument in the service of the big economic and financial groups, promoting an increasing exploitation of workers and peoples, with social dumping, which is associated with the destruction of productive forces and environmental degradation, with environmental dumping. this trade policy and the agreements which give it concrete expression are increasingly lacking in democratic legitimacy. in almost all cases, they are negotiated in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens, seeking to conceal their economic, social and environmental impacts, avoiding informed debate and clarification. the choice of profit by the big economic groups, at the expense of meeting the needs of the population and workers, and even of industry in the eu's weaker economies, can only be condemned and deserves our strong opposition.
in writing. - negotiations with japan to deepen trade relations cannot be used as a class tool in the service of the big economic and financial groups, promoting the growing exploitation of workers and peoples, the destruction of productive forces and the destruction of the environment. the eu is increasingly lacking in democratic legitimacy, being pushed by the right and social democracy, negotiating trade agreements in secret and turning its back on the sovereignty of the peoples and the member states, trying to hide the enormous economic and social impacts that these will have, without informing, clarifying, debating and taking into account the opinion of the peoples. the choice of profit by the large economic groups, at the expense of meeting the needs of workers and the working classes and even of industry in the countries with the weakest economies in the european union, continues to generate loss of rights, unemployment and poverty and also affects small and medium-sized farmers, fishermen and smes, all of whom are its victims. this blind profit-seeking option limits democracy and sovereignty, creates greater dependence in countries like portugal, which need to create jobs, produce and create wealth to generate better living conditions and not more deindustrialization, less agricultural production and less fisheries.
in writing. − in 2010, the total amount of bilateral trade between the eu and japan, the world's third largest economy in terms of gdp, amounted to €120 billion, with japan being the eu's sixth largest trading partner and the eu japan's third largest trading partner. however, there is a large untapped trade potential and a strong determination is needed to strengthen eu-japan trade relations by focusing on the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, including numerous restrictive rules and regulatory measures for european companies to access the japanese market. in this sense, the eu-japan fta has great potential to be beneficial for both economies.
in writing. − the rules-based multilateral trading system established by the world trade organisation (wto) is the most appropriate framework for regulating and promoting open and fair trade, and the eu is in favour of integrating developing countries into the international trading system. bilateral agreements, such as the one under consideration, are specific mechanisms which can, in parallel, contribute to the pursuit of the above objectives. i voted in favour of this resolution on eu-japan trade relations because i am convinced that the eu-japan free trade agreement has the potential to be beneficial for both economies. in fact, the existence of open and fair trade is a powerful tool for generating more growth and social well-being, taking advantage of the comparative advantages of each economy and the potential synergies of greater economic integration and new contributions to a knowledge-based economy. it is about boosting a market, the eu-japan, which already represents, as a whole, more than a quarter of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade.
in writing. − i support this proposal, as the scale of the threats and the total area of eu forests require increased funding for forests through the second pillar of the cap, subject to the existence of nfps and operational management plans integrating the eu biodiversity strategy, as well as long timelines for forestry projects under the gfs. eligibility should be extended to public officials and producer groups, by shifting to a land-based remuneration and including conservation measures. a gfs should be clearly integrated, give priority to research and practice and take account of the public ownership of 40% of eu forests. species conservation and treatment practices should be extended to microbial and associated fungal species. in situ research on mycorrhizal symbiosis should be actively encouraged. payments for ecosystem services (eps) should be formalised for the next financial perspective, based on the success of forest and water projects. when setting up an eu adaptation fund, particular attention should be paid to forest adaptation and resilience.
in writing. − europe's large forest area generates a considerable volume of business and a number of jobs within the union. in view of this, and without forgetting the environmental importance of these green spaces, i consider it essential to take measures to combat the negative effects of climate change that have recently occurred at global level in order to safeguard european forests and all the positive externalities associated with them. i therefore welcome this initiative by the commission, which is translated into a green paper on information for forest protection, because in order to act effectively we must first of all know the damage suffered recently by our forests as a result of the new global climate, particularly in relation to storms, increased fire risk, pests and fungal diseases.
in writing. − forests and wooded areas cover 42% of the eu's surface. although some 500 000 hectares of forest are lost annually as a result of forest fires and illegal logging, the trend towards increased forest cover in the eu appears to be stable in the long term. as forestry policy is the primary competence of the member states, it is nevertheless the eu's responsibility to coordinate and complement member states' forestry initiatives and programmes, adding value to them by defining a common eu strategy and action plan. enhanced forest protection should be part of eu and member states' strategies, especially in view of the proliferation of climate-related extreme events such as fires, floods, landslides and desertification. i therefore support the creation of new instruments and increased funding for eu forest protection measures, in particular to meet the new challenges posed by climate change. information on forest resources, the state of forests and the impact of climate change is also essential to ensure that decisions taken in relation to forests deliver the greatest possible socio-economic and ecological benefits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on preparing forests for climate change. taking into account the potential of forests for climate change mitigation and adaptation, as well as their economic, social and environmental value, it is necessary to strengthen european policies in the field of sustainable development and forest conservation, in particular legislation on forest fire risk prevention and management.
in writing. − currently, 42% of the eu's surface is covered by forest and other wooded areas, and forest represents 2 million jobs, mainly in smes, and a turnover of €300 billion. these figures reflect a fundamental need for good european forest policies and for their use and sustainability, not only as an environmental but also as a key economic resource. in the logic of protecting the forest as a fundamental economic and environmental resource, i cannot forget, as a portuguese, that fighting the forest fires with which my country has been plagued must be an absolute priority for any european policy in this area. as for the national forestry programmes (nfps), i fully support their development, but i would just point out that the existence of a nfp is not enough. it has to go beyond paper and actually reach into forest areas for it to be really effective, as we intend it to be.
in writing. − this report focuses on the commission green paper entitled 'protecting forests and forest information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change'. over 42% of the eu's land area is wooded or forested, which is an important source of income, generating over €300 billion annually and providing over 2 million jobs. furthermore, forests are essential to all of us and are part of our identity. in recent times, we have seen disasters and weather threaten the forests. without forests, the consequences of climate change would be much more severe. despite their importance, they have not been properly funded. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report which draws attention to the disregard for this sector, calls for the recognition and appreciation of the diversity of species in the eu and for the need to implement a modern and effective forestry policy which takes advantage of new management of biomass, carbon credits, in addition to traditional activities.
in writing. − forests and other wooded areas cover over 42% of the eu's surface and provide a livelihood for millions of workers. the conservation of forest heritage is an important contribution to the well-being of the population and the creation of employment in rural areas and must be inseparable from the prevention of forest fires, a catastrophe which decimates large areas of forest annually in southern europe, particularly in portugal. it would be important to follow up the recommendations on the prevention of natural disasters recently adopted here. the report takes a comprehensive approach to the forestry problem, focusing on some aspects which we consider important. but it is important to move from paper to practice, particularly in terms of mobilising sufficient financial resources through community support programmes and measures, which will allow for the monitoring of the ecological and phytosanitary status of forests and, where necessary, their requalification, including reforestation measures. it is also essential to provide the natura 2000 network - given that many forest areas are included in it - with adequate financial means for its management and the effective pursuit of its objectives. it is also important to recognise the diversity of forest ecosystems that occur in europe and to value the multifunctionality of many of them, such as the mediterranean woodland.
in writing. - this report covers the forestry problem in a comprehensive way, focusing on some aspects which we consider important. but it is important to move from paper to practice, particularly in terms of mobilising sufficient financial resources through community support programmes and measures, which will allow for the monitoring of the ecological and phytosanitary status of forests and, where necessary, their requalification, including reforestation measures. it is also essential to provide the natura 2000 network with adequate financial means for its management and the effective pursuit of its objectives. forests and other wooded areas cover more than 42% of the eu's surface and provide a livelihood for millions of workers. its conservation is an important contribution to the well-being of the population and to job creation in rural areas and must be inseparable from the prevention of forest fires, a catastrophe which is destroying large areas of forest in southern europe, particularly in portugal. it would be important to follow up the recently adopted recommendations on the prevention of natural disasters. it is also important to recognise the diversity of forest ecosystems that occur in europe and to value the multifunctionality of many of them, as is the case, for example, of the mediterranean woodland.
in writing. − the eu has a forest area of 42%, an industry that provides some 2 million jobs and a turnover of €300 billion. in the face of these figures, european forest policies are needed to make forestry environmentally and economically sustainable. only in this way can it be protected from the various attacks on it, in particular the fires, which are the main causes of its destruction, especially in the countries of southern europe, in particular my country, portugal, where many thousands of hectares of forest are destroyed every year.
in writing. the report on the commission green paper entitled 'protecting forests and forest information in the eu: preparing forests for climate change' sets out the european parliament's concerns in this area. forests in the european union cover more than 42% of the eu's surface and represent 16 million forest owners, providing more than 2 million direct jobs, mainly in smes, and representing a turnover of €300 billion, in addition to their positive and essential impact on combating climate change due to their capacity to fix carbon dioxide and release oxygen. the figures show the importance of forests for all eu member states, particularly for portugal, which has a forest with very specific characteristics and plays a key role in land use planning and fighting forest fires. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the measures advocated in this report contribute to combating the destruction of forests, in particular by fires, pests, forest fragmentation, changes in species composition and increasing demand for woody biomass.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering it absolutely essential to strengthen european policies with a view to the conservation and sustainable management of forests, whose invaluable economic, social and environmental value must be preserved.
in writing. - i approve this proposal, taking into account that the report has achieved a balanced approach to the most important issues of the organisation and activities of the european external action service and to the key issues of security and defence policy. the balance has been achieved through military and civilian cooperation in the resolution of eu-nato interactions. the amendments proposed by the s&ds and approved in committee contribute to a more inclusive definition, covering freedom of religion or belief and the expansion of the list of minorities in need of international protection.
in writing. - i welcome the council's annual report and welcome the efforts made to develop a european foreign policy. i consider it essential that member states adopt a harmonious position in external relations, as such cohesion will contribute to peace, security, solidarity and conflict prevention at international level, as well as to sustainable development and the eu's ability to influence the international order. i therefore encourage the continuation of the good work towards the formation of a united front which improves relations between europe and the other world powers, which promotes a more effective response to international crises and which strengthens europe's position on the world stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the council's annual report provides a clear overview of policies and actions in the field of the common foreign and security policy and contributes to a strengthened interinstitutional dialogue.
in writing. − this year's report is similar in structure to the 2009 cfsp report. a special chapter is devoted to the implementation of the treaty of lisbon. as before, it calls for more dialogue with the council on the main objectives of the cfsp. the rapporteur stresses, and i agree with him, the need to move beyond a mere description of cfsp activities to more dialogue with a strategic approach. it called on the council to take account of parliament's positions in its decision-making. i believe that there is a need for further discussion of the strategic framework for the union's external policy and for greater knowledge of the scope of the cfsp and the mechanisms for its conduct to be made available to the various political actors. the large number of amendments tabled shows the growing interest of members in these issues.
in writing. − this report concerns the annual report from the council to the european parliament (ep) on the main aspects and key options of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) in 2009, submitted to the european parliament in accordance with point 43 of part ii-g of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. this report is based on the institutional framework established by the treaty of lisbon and, as a result of its restructuring, is more transparent in its presentation of the common foreign and security policies. it addresses the situation in various parts of the world where countries and regions are in crisis, such as the western balkans, neighbouring countries in eastern europe, central asia, russia, turkey, the middle east, the mediterranean region, asia, africa and latin america. while recognising the possibility of improvements, in particular in the detail of events by country, in the description of the means needed to achieve the objectives of the eu's external policy, and in a more qualitative assessment of this policy with the inclusion of strategic and organisational recommendations for the future, i welcome the preparation of this report and i hope that the eu will continue to develop effective multilateralism, which is one of the hallmarks of the eu's geostrategic concern.
in writing. - another report on support for the development of the european union's common foreign and security and defence policy. the arguments are repeated, tediously. we therefore reiterate the objection and the reasons for it: we are faced with the defence, by various means, including military and diplomatic, of the economic and geostrategic interests of the european powers, in concert with the usa and nato. it is not too much to recall the list of services provided by these institutions and their dramatic consequences: iraq, afghanistan, the balkans, libya, with other countries also on the list. cooperation and development aid policy, which in the present international context should be one of the main pillars, if not the main pillar, of a foreign and security policy, is relegated to a very secondary role. the hypocritical attitude of protecting the economic interests of european arms companies, which have made millions by selling arms to dictators who use them to massacre their own people or neighbouring peoples, is also a classic and repetitive one. this and other questions remain unanswered: the necessary policy adjustment. the support for israel's policy of aggression and occupation, the non-compliance by that country with un resolutions, and others such as morocco, are further examples that we denounce here.
in writing. - this is another report which also reaffirms, in essence, support for the european union's common foreign and security and defence policies. these are mainly policies to defend the economic and geostrategic interests of the european powers, increasingly in line with the us and nato, with development cooperation and aid being pushed into the background. the results are generally disastrous, as is clear in afghanistan, palestine, iraq, libya and other countries. we know how much the policy of double standards prevails, which protects the economic interests of european arms companies, which have made millions by selling arms to dictators who then used them to massacre their own people or neighbouring peoples. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − the eu should continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests on a global scale, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication. these objectives will only be achieved through an effective common foreign and security policy shared by all eu member states.
in writing. - the eu's foreign policy has seen a strong increase since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the european union needs a coherent foreign policy strategy based on the objectives and principles enshrined in article 21 teu. the union's action on the international scene is based on the principles which guided its creation, development and enlargement, and its objective is to promote throughout the world: democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. i voted in favour of this report on the annual report from the council to the ep on the main aspects and key options of the common foreign and security policy in 2009 because i agree with most of the comments made by the ep. i would stress that the report does not propose any approaches to resolving the conflicts and issues it so transparently presents. i therefore support the rapporteur's request to the council that this report not be limited to a mere description of the activities of this policy but that it be transformed into a policy instrument focused on solutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which, on the basis of the council's annual report on the cfsp for 2009 - the transparency of which is welcomed - stresses the need for the european union to continue to develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests on a global scale, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication.
in writing. - i support this proposal and recommend that measures be taken to overcome the difficulty of finding professionals for civilian missions, which are the most commonly used form of intervention. recommends further that, in the framework of gender mainstreaming, in line with unscr 1325 and for the enhanced effectiveness of civilian and military missions, female personnel be adequately associated at all levels of crisis management; stresses the need for women to be included in senior decision-making positions, for regular consultations with civil society and for strengthening the capacity to address gender issues in missions; appropriate public complaint procedures shall be established in the context of csdp missions; calls on the vp/hr to include a detailed report on women, peace and security in the semi-annual evaluation of csdp missions; i believe that this would allow the experience gained from political, strategic, technical, legal and operational points of view to be used and, in the long term, could provide a basis for improving ongoing interventions and applying criteria to emerging crises, thus allowing a better balance between strategic interests and available resources.
in writing. − i consider it essential that member states adopt a harmonious position in external relations, as such cohesion will lead to peace, security, solidarity and conflict prevention at international level, as well as to sustainable development and the eu's ability to influence the international order. i therefore encourage the continuation of the good work towards the formation of a united front which improves relations between europe and the other world powers, which promotes a more effective response to international crises and which strengthens europe's position on the world stage.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty was a step forward for the eu. it has brought greater political and institutional involvement to relations between member states, bringing them closer together on key policies and strategies for internal and external action. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the analysis it contains is of the utmost importance for the development of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the document presented maximises the eu's role by enhancing synergies between member states and between member states and the community institutions. the development of the csdp is all the more relevant given the current economic/financial crisis, which calls for sharing of resources between member states in order to effectively ensure the security of citizens, crisis/conflict management and the building of a lasting peace scenario. it adds further value by the observation of the legal structure which is presented, seeking to clarify the institutional barriers which occur in the post-lisbon treaty period and attempting to objectivise legislative solutions to the problems encountered. lisbon is demanding a cfsp! i feel that the european citizens want it. the reality will be more rational, more synergistic, more european!
in writing. − the idea behind this resolution is that the common security and defence policy, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, provides for the union's firm political intention to act as a force for stability in the world and has a clear legal framework for strengthening its capacity to pursue its objectives. however, there are still no clear signs of a sufficiently holistic post-lisbon approach, allowing traditional procedural and institutional obstacles to be overcome and keeping in mind the security and defence of european citizens and states. i hope that the present economic austerity will help the states to spend resources more intelligently and to be able to cooperate more effectively.
in writing. − this report assesses the development of the common security and defence policy following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this report is based on the new institutional framework created by the lisbon treaty, which requires the european union (eu) to speak with one voice and, as a result of its restructuring, to be more transparent in the presentation of its common foreign and security policies. however, it is recognised that a comprehensive post-lisbon eu approach that overcomes the traditional institutional and procedural obstacles has not yet been possible. the european union must be able to take action in the field of foreign policy, and the european union must be able to take action in the field of security. while recognising the need for a public debate on external security and defence in order to define a future ep policy on this matter, i welcome the drafting of this report and express my hope that the eu will continue to develop effective multilateralism, which is one of the hallmarks of its geostrategic concern.
in writing. - some of the contents of this report are disturbing in several ways. in essence, they confirm many of the warnings and warnings we made when the treaty of lisbon was discussed and came into force: the european union is in the midst of an unmistakable process of militarization, which we are now seeking to accelerate and intensify. the militarization of the eu obviously does not serve peace, it does not serve the interests of the peoples. the transformation of the eu into the european pillar of nato, as called for in the treaty of lisbon, is part of the process of disputing zones of influence on a world scale, in the framework of (still) concertation with the usa, which takes the lead in this process of asserting an imperial hegemony, which guarantees them control of markets and resources, some of them progressively scarcer. as the gue/ngl amendments stated, military interventions designed to allegedly stabilise certain countries or regions are the wrong way to go. instead of stabilizing, they destabilize. instead of solving them, they deepen the problems. the situation in libya is one more example, which is added to afghanistan and iraq. the development of the common security and defence policy serves the interests of the eu's military-industrial complex, but not the interests of the peoples or peace.
in writing. - as we have been warning, and this report consolidates this path, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the militarisation of the european union will be accelerated even more sharply and at a faster pace. as our group's amendments have pointed out, military interventions or a military approach to resolving conflicts in order to allegedly stabilise certain countries or regions are the wrong way forward, which, instead of resolving them, actually exacerbates them, as the current situation in libya, afghanistan and iraq shows. the militarization of the eu serves no people. the ongoing transformation of the eu into the european pillar of nato is part of a process of international division of zones of influence, led by the us, in the quest to secure greater exploitation of the labour force and access to and control over increasingly scarce natural resources, notably hydrocarbons, and control over markets. the development of the common security and defence policy is a threat to peace, an element of deepening the policy of interference, a contribution to the arms race, including nuclear arms, to promote fabulous profits for the eu military-industrial complex.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has given the european parliament increased responsibilities in the field of foreign and security policy. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that it promotes its values and interests on a global scale, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, security, solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights, gender equality, respect for international law, support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between nations, sustainable development, free and fair trade and poverty eradication. only then will we be able to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the development of the common security and defence policy following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the common security and defence policy is an integral part of the common foreign and security policy. both dimensions have been integrated into the institutional, legally binding framework of the eu's principles (democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, respect for the principles of the united nations charter and the principles of international law, including the responsibility to protect), and their objectives have been merged with the general objectives of the eu's external action. in this area i support the rapporteur's proposal to step up cooperation with the eu's national parliaments in the democratic control of the cfsp and the csdp, with a view to strengthening mutual influence on the political choices made by the other european institutions and the member states, while fully respecting the prerogatives of national parliaments in defence matters. within the framework of the eu's values and principles, it is essential that its common security and defence policy be conducted through a transparent and democratic process.
in writing. − the european union can only achieve its international standing through concerted action by the member states and the union's institutions. in this context, a common security and defence policy capable of meeting the challenges facing it is a priority objective. the union's active voice at international level can only be ensured by its own adequate defence instruments. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i support this proposal as it suggests strengthening the eu's role in the multilateral system. it is entirely right that the eu should have a more effective representation in international organisations and that this representation should be valued, as the eu is the organisation that contributes the most to development aid. the eu's principles and values promoting better and more preventive multilateral action should position the eu as a major international player in the emerging interpolar world. in particular, the eu must make efforts to move beyond being a mere observer at various un programmes and conferences. it should also strengthen its position in international bodies in the field of economics and monetary and financial stability, in line with its role as one of the world's major economic powers. i also welcome the report's suggestions to seek to strengthen the eu's role in multilateral security organisations, the g8, the g20 and others.
in writing. − i welcome the efforts made to improve europe's multilateral action, stressing the importance of an active and leading role for the eu in the reform of world governance. this is a good opportunity for the european union to use its foreign policy instruments and to take the lead in the most effective approach to current and future international crises. i therefore welcome the focus on the eu's position in the united nations system, in the international financial institutions and in the other multilateral institutions, and i agree with the proposals for reform and strengthening of the various positions we have taken.
in writing. − the oft-repeated phrase 'not a political dwarf but an economic giant' takes on new meaning when we look at the eu's presence in the international/other regional organisations to which it belongs. we must change this reality! i therefore consider this own-initiative report to be timely and i support it in general. this report examines the eu's role as a global actor in international bodies. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur that there is still a lot to be done to ensure the credibility, coherence and visibility of the eu's external action, since there is no european strategy for each organisation to which the member states or the eu belong. the increasing complexity of the international system requires that relations between member states and between member states and the eu be objectively coordinated at the various stages where we interact. that is why we adopted the treaty of lisbon! and there is already an example of good practice, our presence in the wto! it is therefore urgent that the eu should be represented with one voice in the various international bodies. and i think that the drawing up of a white paper on this subject, as proposed in the report, could be a good start to the end of this very bizarre reality!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates strengthening the eu's role in world peace, security and regulation. for the union to be able to make a definitive statement on foreign policy, and in the light of the objectives set out in the treaty of lisbon, further work is needed to ensure that the eu will one day have a permanent seat on the un security council.
in writing. − in this resolution, parliament addresses the role of the european union in the united nations system, international financial institutions, multilateral security organisations, summit diplomacy and other multilateral organisations and calls for a strengthened role for the union at multilateral level. the need for better coordination of the union's action as such with that of the member states is clear. i believe that the union should play an active and leading role in reforming global governance so as to make international institutions and organisations more legitimate, effective and conducive to shared responsibility. i am not unaware of the many difficulties that a radical overhaul of the current institutional representation of the union in multilateral bodies would entail, particularly with regard to a possible strengthening of the eu's position within the un. the house's insistence on the need for a comprehensive reform of the un security council and the need to strengthen its legitimacy, regional representativeness and effectiveness by granting the union a permanent seat remains therefore a goal that is difficult to achieve in the short term.
in writing. − this report by ms maría muñiz de urquiza looks at the performance of the european union (eu) as a global actor and its role in multilateral organisations. the world is currently experiencing a process of great growth in terms of globalisation, especially with the revolutions and transitions to democracy of countries traditionally closed and governed by totalitarian regimes, which is a set of opportunities that the eu should not ignore. in turn, effective multilateralism is the guiding principle of the eu's external policy, as committed in the 2003 european security strategy. the legal personality conferred on the eu by the treaty of lisbon, which requires the european union (eu) to speak with one voice, enhances its capacity to intervene as an authorised voice in the various international organisations where foreign, security and defence policy issues are discussed. while i support the eu's strengthening of development cooperation and aid, i agree with the proposals of the rapporteur whose report i am voting in favour of.
in writing. - the eu does not have the legitimacy that is claimed. only states and their people have it. this report seeks to legitimize and consolidate a process which has been gradually taking place at the expense of the peoples, in defiance of their sovereignty, national sovereignty and legitimacy. the aim is to ensure that the eu is represented in multilateral organisations (nato, imf, osce, world bank) as if it were a (super) state, seeking to replace states and thus distorting the spirit of bodies such as the un general assembly, where each country and its people still have the same weight, regardless of their size. the report also proposes to strengthen the means, particularly through the external action service, put at the service of a political and diplomatic agenda whose aim is to increase the weight and influence of the eu in various forums and organisations, with a view to its instrumentalisation. we are facing an attempt to subvert the existing international order and replace it with a new, less democratic one, which guarantees economic and financial groups better conditions for pursuing their ambitions in the constant competition for markets and resources.
in writing. - the majority of the ep seeks to consolidate a path and a policy that goes beyond the organs of national sovereignty and the sovereignty of the peoples, presenting the eu with a legitimacy that only the states and their peoples have, no matter how much it costs them. they want to legitimize the eu in multilateral organisations (nato, imf, osce, world bank) by seeking to replace states with regional integration organisations, such as the un general assembly, where each country and its people still have the same weight, regardless of their size. they propose to strengthen the means, particularly through the external action service, to implement a political and diplomatic agenda whose first objective is to strengthen their weight and influence in these organisations with a view to their instrumentalisation. the objectives are clear: to establish a new international order that is less democratic, to ensure better conditions for permanent competition between economic and financial groups in the struggle for markets and the domination of natural resources in the world, for which the eu needs greater militarization and permanent integrated cooperation with nato, led by the us and the major eu powers. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - the eu must not forget its role as a leading player on the world stage in all areas. it must therefore strengthen its role in all multilateral organisations, particularly the un, where its role must be increasingly active following the launch of the european external action service (eeas).
in writing. − this report on the eu as a global actor: its role in multilateral organisations provides an overview of the eu's role. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the vision it presents and its ambition for a strong eu on the international scene. in addition to the value of each member state per se, the eu as an organisation can bring its organisational expertise to the international community. indeed, the eu's mechanisms for building consensus and taking concerted action make the union an exemplary model for a rules-based international order. in this regard, cooperation with the major regional powers should be fostered so that the eu can play an active part in creating and improving an international environment which enables it to promote its values and interests, as required by the treaty. in this sense, it is essential, with regard to the eu's aspiration to be a global player, to strengthen internal coordination in order to speak with one voice. only in this way can multilateral cooperation be shaped and international challenges met, in particular those arising from the responsibility to protect and the need to strengthen global security.
in writing. − in the current context, it is very important that the eu can assert itself as a global actor, capable of responding effectively to the demanding challenges facing the world. in this respect, it should focus on strengthening internal coordination so that the eu can speak with one voice, thus increasing not only the prospects for success of its action but also its legitimacy and credibility in the international arena.
in writing. - the european union is now a true player on the world stage. its role in multilateral international organisations is noticeably increasing and has been proving ever more important. in this sense, the european union should play a more active and leading role in the reform of world governance. i am referring in particular to the need to reform the united nations system in order to give the european union a place and, in particular, its representation in the united nations security council. this implies a demanding coordination of positions between member states, but would result in greater coherence, visibility and credibility of eu action at international level. the european union should be inspired by the model it follows in the wto and, for greater coherence and better integrated cooperation, have observer status in nato, closer coordination with the council of europe and full participation in the activities of the g7/g8 and g20.
i would like to express here the deep indignation and protests that are being heard in portugal against the policies that have led to the crisis we are experiencing, especially against the genuine pact of submission and aggression imposed on the portuguese people by the so-called troika (international monetary fund, ecb and european commission), charged with implementing the shameful act of external interference which does not even respect the exclusive rights and powers of the national parliament, let alone take into account that we are on the eve of legislative elections. these are anti-social policies, policies of regression and renunciation of development, which condemn the portuguese workers and people to unemployment, poverty, underdevelopment and extreme dependency, turning portugal into a mere protectorate or a mere colony of the powers of the european union. and all this when it is already known that such measures do not solve anything, as the example of greece shows. even if we ignore the real responsibilities of community policies in the current portuguese situation - and we are talking about the irrational criteria of the stability pact, the policy of the strong euro, the guidelines and statutes of the european central bank, which do not respect the specificities of the weakest economies - nothing justifies applying to portugal a package that punishes the portuguese population in exchange for a loan paid at higher interest rates than those which the ecb habitually practices. against all the proclamations of solidarity during the election campaign, what we have is a policy of social regression and prolonged economic recession. with all this, they only want to favour international banking and a handful of portuguese economic and financial groups and some of their servants. so we are saying that the euro zone itself is at stake, that the european union may be facing its own implosion, that a change of policy is needed... (the president cut the speaker off)
what is unacceptable is that such a question is being raised here, when european leaders have failed to take responsibility for their policies in time and in time, worsening the situation of portugal, which, as we know, had a fragile economy and had to be subject to the policies of the strong euro, which serve the interests of germany, france and others, but which do not serve the interests of portugal and other countries with more fragile economies. that is why the portuguese people are fighting against this policy, as are the people in greece, the workers, a little bit outside europe. we need a different policy in europe too.
the crisis caused by sovereign debts requires a european response. a response that looks at the different situations in concrete terms, that defends the euro, so that it is strong, and that defends the states. that is why the set of proposals on economic governance which are currently being discussed in the european parliament are particularly important. parliament has helped to take positive steps towards a smart management of debt: by advocating a reasonable transitional period, by advocating that the necessary reduction of debt should not be done year by year but over an average of three years, by advocating the need for budgetary discipline, by advocating that growth and greater transparency in european policies are needed through debates in the european parliament, by advocating the necessary solidarity. solidarity with portugal has now been achieved. i wanted to leave you with a word, as a portuguese. portugal has 900 years of history. portugal is capable. portugal is able to put its public accounts in order with discipline. portugal is capable of reforming the banking system, it is capable of reforming the labour market, the tax system to be more competitive, the health and justice systems, with innovative measures. portugal is capable of having a more efficient and controlled public administration. portugal is capable of being a successful liberal economy with more competitiveness. but, fundamentally, portugal is able to participate in the european project. the commission has also been asked to take part in the work of the european parliament and to help ensure that the challenges of the future can be solved. that's why we're so good at this space and we want to help it get stronger and stronger.
europe is in the midst of an unprecedented crisis which could threaten the euro area and the european project. a eurozone crisis of which greece, ireland and portugal are the first victims. the attacks on the sovereign debt of these countries are aimed at weakening the single currency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. if there is no firm response from the european union to calm the markets, the pressure will spread to other member states. portugal has no problem with the sustainability of public accounts or with the insolvency of national banks. portugal needs to continue the structural reforms already initiated, increase productivity and promote economic growth. as in the past, the portuguese will rise to this challenge and make the necessary sacrifices, but no more than the necessary sacrifices. it is not understandable that the european union will charge portugal higher interest rates than the international monetary fund. portugal will pay the european union almost 3 billion euros in interest each year. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget. what is at stake is a loan, not a gift. this is a loan which will be repaid in full and at interest rates similar to those which portugal was paying on the market about a month ago. in a globalized world, no country can solve all problems on its own. the financial crisis has shown that what happens on the other side of the world can have a devastating effect on one's home. that is why we need more and better europe, a more united and more ambitious europe. we are all in the same boat: if the boat sinks, no one is saved. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i would like to thank all the finns and the finnish parliament for taking this decision, which is in keeping with the spirit of community and solidarity which presided over the founding of the european community. in reply to your question, i would say that the portuguese will comply with these austerity measures and that, although it is a tough, heavy package, we will do everything we can to increase economic growth, create more jobs and get out of these difficulties.
i would like to begin by saying that i naturally think that the agreement which has been reached for portugal is a balanced agreement. it is a very tough agreement for the people, but it puts its fundamental emphasis on structural reforms to increase growth and competitiveness. i think that's very positive. i do not take the view of others who think that countries like greece, ireland and portugal have done everything right: they have not made mistakes, they have not exaggerated. they did everything right and it was only the international crisis that caused problems. no, our governments have made mistakes and have had wrong policies, but that does not mean that there is no opportunity now, in the context of the union, to have the possibility here of getting back on the right track and the correct track. so it's important to remember here that, in fact, we have to tell the public that they are against supporting countries in trouble, that they are not giving money to those countries, they are just lending money to those countries. moreover, they are lending it at very high interest rates and therefore they are making a deal that is good for their budgets and for their populations. but i also say here that perhaps it is time to have a global european response, with the admission of eurobonds, with the admission of the possibility of selling on the primary market, to respond to international markets. it is perhaps time for the european commission itself, the fund and the imf to review interest rates in such a way as to make it possible, by lowering these rates, to achieve sustained growth in these countries which are now in difficulty. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure)
i think the rate should be lower not only for portugal but also for ireland and greece. i think that without lower interest rates it will be extremely difficult to achieve the objectives, as we are now seeing in the greek case. but in any case, i think there's a chance here and there's an open window here. if portugal is able to comply strictly with the terms of the agreement in these first months, i think it will be able to present itself to the european fund and the imf and ask for a revision of the rates within six to nine months. i think that would be good news for the portuguese people, i think it would be good news for the european union.
in april, the president of the republic of my country asked the european commission for imagination and you replied to the president of my country with the arrogance of a colonial governor: i am not going to go into the details of the matter. that's why i want to answer you now. the european commission has shown a great deal of imagination when it imposes on a country, three weeks before elections, a government programme for three years and a government preference. the european commission has imagination when it asks the same country for 6% interest when portugal is plunged into recession in the next two years. the european commission just doesn't have the imagination for what it took because we all need to restructure the debt, to renegotiate the debt, to involve the creditors in the solution. please, commissioner, put your hand on your conscience, resign, for europe is grateful.
, in writing. other the debt issue, because of its scale and associated constraints, besides being a real problem for countries like portugal, is a central part of the violent social, economic, political and ideological offensive under way (which hides its true causes) whose most recent expression is the illegitimate intervention in portugal by the imf-ecb-ecb troika. we are facing an intolerable process of extortion of national resources, of the portuguese workers and people, for the pockets of financial capital. the eu by revealing its nature and real objectives mediates this extortion process, creating the institutional conditions for it to become effective and deepen. the process of external interference under way is a good indication of this. it incorporates the essence of the anti-social measures applied in other countries, such as greece and ireland, as well as those contained in the euro pact imposed by the european powers. if it comes to fruition, it will worsen the national situation by worsening economic recession, unemployment, poverty, social inequalities and national dependency. if implemented, this genuine programme of submission, as is demonstrated by the situation in other countries, will actually exacerbate the conditions which allegedly determine this intervention, namely: the difficulties in coping with the unbearable rising costs of public debt.
i do not wish to undermine the work and commitment of the workers, technicians and specialists in the four existing european agencies with expertise in the field of employment, working conditions and training, but greater coordination and synergy in the work carried out is certainly necessary and possible, so that its benefits are clearer. there are studies which are important and which give us a better understanding of the problems of working conditions, training, the quality of employment itself and even the lack of democracy in the workplace, but then there must be concrete action by the european commission to respond positively to these problems. that is the challenge i am leaving to the european commission, mr commissioner.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, commissioner, innovation does indeed contain within itself the possibility of giving a strong impetus to the economic and social development that is so necessary in our times. more than that, we can even say that innovation is a necessary means to help answer many of the problems and challenges facing humanity today. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have tried to support this idea by drawing attention to some of the main challenges we face in these areas: scarcity and resource efficiency, waste recovery and treatment, food quality and safety, demographic change, new epidemics, nature conservation and biodiversity - to name just a few examples. i have tried to argue that innovation should be guided, above all, by criteria of defending the public interest, improving the quality of life of the population, promoting social welfare and preserving the environment and natural balances. it should be a key element of public policies in areas such as the environment, water, energy, transport, telecommunications, health and education. i drew attention to the fact, recognised in the 2009 european innovation panel, that the economic and financial crisis is having a disproportionate impact on different countries and regions, undermining the objective of convergence. the current constraints on member states may result in further restrictions on investment in science, technology and innovation, particularly in the most vulnerable countries. the result could be, instead of the so-called innovation union, a genuine division in innovation between the most innovative countries and regions and the others. unfortunately, the original proposal for an opinion that i submitted was eventually distorted by the amendments that were adopted in the commission. where there was, where there should be, the public interest, development, cohesion, progress and social welfare, what ended up prevailing were the so-called business opportunities, competition, the instrumentalisation and commercialisation of innovation. this is the prevailing view in the commission's communication, and it is not our view. this is not the vision of the future we need.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work. europe needs a sustainable and competitive economic model that responds to today's major social challenges and ensures more and better jobs. the innovation union initiative introduces a strategic, integrated and business- and people-oriented european innovation policy. the concept of innovation must go beyond technological innovation. it must be associated with products, but also with processes, services, movements, systems and structures of organisations. in particular, social innovation aims to find new and effective solutions to pressing social needs. on the other hand, young people are the engine of innovation. it is therefore essential to implement policies that promote young people's access to the labour market. it is also essential to create genuine support mechanisms for smes. the success of innovation policy depends on the existence of an efficient, simple, unbureaucratic system of science and higher education. appropriate funding for these two areas is a necessary condition for the development of innovation. i therefore call on the commission, in view of the objective of financing research and technological development by 2020 at 3% of gdp, to consider the possibility of establishing for the eu an effective system of governance of this objective in the light of what is happening with economic governance.
mr president, commissioner, and rapporteur, this strategy is important for all european countries, especially those whose economies are not particularly competitive. it is essential for the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises. the creation of new jobs is more active today. it is essential for universities and laboratories whose survival depends in part on their relationship with the productive sectors. it is essential for the financial system, which will have a new market in innovation as the classic manufacturing model is exhausted. innovation is at the top of the european agenda and, as a pillar of the eu 2020 strategy, will have to be served by new financial instruments if it is not to succumb to short-term budgetary constraints. finally, i would like to congratulate judith merkies on her important contribution to a more innovative europe and a more knowledge-based economy.
madam president, at a time of serious economic and social crisis, such as that which is currently being experienced in several member states of the european union, a debate on innovation in all fields of knowledge and in all areas of economic and social activity is welcome, but such innovation must be guided by criteria of defending the public interest, improving the quality of life of the population, promoting social well-being and preserving the environment and natural balances. in this context, it is essential not to forget unemployment, which already affects almost a quarter of young people, many of whom have a higher education; not to forget the increasing precariousness of employment, especially for women and young people, and the growth of poverty and social exclusion. it is therefore time to move from words to deeds and to demand the necessary budget and policies which effectively value people, their creativity, their capacity for innovation and which respect the dignity of those who work.
madam president, i fully agree with what has already been said by my colleagues in the s&d group who have gone before me. i would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee on employment, mrs pervenche berès, on this initiative which allows us to discuss a very important subject. i also thank the commissioner for his participation and the sensitivity he has shown. domestic work is important, economically and socially, but it's low-paid, routine and socially devalued work. it has already been said that domestic work is mostly done by women, who are subject to all kinds of discrimination. in addition, on the subject of discrimination, i would like to point out that in my report on the revision of the maternity leave directive, i advocate the inclusion of domestic workers in the scope of the directive. at present, domestic workers are excluded from the maternity leave directive and from any european legislation guaranteeing the right to maternity protection, and are not even covered by the framework directive on health and safety. it is an unacceptable discrimination which must be corrected. and that is why we welcome this ilo convention, which must be supported to dignify domestic work and give these women back the rights they have as other women.
i consider the debate we have had here and the initiative of our chairman of the committee on employment and social affairs to be important, because it is necessary to give greater value to domestic workers, who are mostly women workers, who provide domestic assistance, cleaning and catering services, and who are commonly the victims of great exploitation and great discrimination, which is even more acute when they are also immigrants. and that is why it is of the utmost importance to face this problem head on. and i also believe that a new ilo convention and recommendation, if it can be adopted at the 7th international labour conference, could be of great help. and in this respect, the commission's role, the commissioner's role, in encouraging the member states, but also in motivating them to pay greater attention to the exact contents of this convention, can undoubtedly be of great importance. but i also challenge you to give full attention to community legislation to guarantee workers' and domestic workers' labour, wage and maternity rights, sickness and social security protection.
on behalf of the s&d group. the consequences of the use of antibiotics in the treatment of animal diseases are well known and increasingly worrying. it is a subject which is already subject to fairly stringent standards, to which the european parliament has also devoted attention and on which positive initiatives have been taken, such as the creation of the data collection network on antibiotic resistance, but which are still insufficient. i therefore call on the commission not only to improve the monitoring mechanisms but also to take the necessary measures to make the data collection more comprehensive and to include in the cap legislative package which is being prepared the set of incentives to promote good practice in this field. the text of the resolution tabled by the agri committee, which has received broad support in its most important recommendations, as mrs jeggle has just confirmed, deserves careful examination by the commission and, above all, the commission's efforts to translate the recommendations into concrete measures to better protect public health and the image of the quality of european products of animal origin.
, in writing. antibiotic resistance in livestock and domestic animals has become a problem in recent years. to deal with this growing problem, i call for more research and better monitoring of its effects on the food chain. if used correctly, antibiotics are a useful tool, but i ask the commission to take concrete measures to use them more efficiently, so as to reduce antibiotic resistance in animals, because this is a problem that is reflected throughout the food chain, affecting above all the level of antibiotic resistance and therefore having repercussions on human health. to that end, the budget for the food and veterinary office and the budget for the european food safety authority should take into account the means necessary to increase fieldwork and to monitor the problem effectively. finally, given the importance of this issue, i urge the commission to draw up a plan for its eu-wide approach which takes into account the full dimension of this issue, namely the fight against antibiotic resistance, in particular in the link between animal health and its use and the link between animal and human health.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, which is a very important one, and i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, which is a very important one. i think that in the case of the creative industries, it is very clear that europe probably has the greatest concentration of potential for the creative industries. of course, in our urban areas, in our cities, which have, on the one hand, very good connectivity and, on the other hand, strong and very differentiated cultural personality, a lot of diversity. some of our urban macro-regions also have the elements that creative industries need to be sustainable on their own, namely capital intensive, talent and knowledge concentrated and a wide range of businesses already based there. we can see this, for example, in the region between paris, london, antwerp. however, this is not true in all of europe. in other words, in some of europe's peripheral regions, there is a concentration of talent, there is history, there are cities that could play a major role in the relaunch of the european economy, but which cannot do so without support, either at union or state level. and therefore, we cannot fool ourselves here either. until europe has put its economic house in order, for example by issuing debt securities, there is nothing to be done. we are here in parliament with very good ideas and governments are at the same time tearing the euro apart and making recovery impossible. as regards foreign policy, and since i have little time left, i would like to say that the european union has a unique opportunity to develop a completely different kind of foreign policy from that pursued by the member states. and, in its cultural aspect, this is not about creating a potential european identity and an illusory european identity and then exporting it or selling it abroad. on the contrary, europe can very well position itself to use culture in external action as a two-way street, on which we teach but also learn, and on which we have a fruitful dialogue with other major regional blocs such as mercosur or asean. it is in this way that the rest of the world benefits most from the example of european democracy, but it is also in the best interests of the european union, because it can learn from others.
mr president, first of all we must look at the context in which this debate is taking place. it is worthwhile to confront the beautiful words we have heard here about the importance of culture and education with reality. the unmistakable reality is that there is a marked disinvestment in these areas, a retreat of the state which calls into question its social function and results in the accentuation of inequalities in access to education, knowledge and culture and, consequently, the reproduction and deepening of social inequalities. the reality in member states such as portugal is that of the closure of thousands of educational establishments, the unemployment and precariousness of employment of thousands of teachers, the chronic underfunding of the public higher education system and the increase in the costs of attendance. the reality is that budgets for culture have been reduced to poverty. we must not ignore this reality, which must be reversed, especially since it will only get worse if the sordid and obscurantist intervention plan prepared by the imf, the european central bank and the european commission is implemented.
mr president, this is an opportunity to make an extraordinary effort to encourage the mobility of young people and to make a decisive effort to train a generation with an open view of the world. a generation with skills, with a global vision and mindset, able to contribute to the development of their regions and the progress of europe. because if every young european has an experience of studying, doing a traineeship or working in a different country, he not only acquires more skills, greater independence and a better outlook, but above all he gains enormous added value from contact and the exchange of experiences with other young europeans. and europe needs more than ever a generation of europeans who know themselves, who trust themselves, who know europe and who trust europe, to carry forward its project. so that everyone, from fajã grande in the azores, where europe begins in the west, can participate. we must ensure that no one is left out for financial reasons either.
in writing. − i support this proposal as it aims to achieve the europe 2020 strategy's major objectives of reducing the rate of early school leaving from 15% to 10% and increasing the percentage of people with tertiary education from 31% to 40% by 2020. the youth on the move initiative also focuses on promoting learning mobility, and it is also essential to ensure that the education they receive is compatible with labour market needs in order to equip them with the skills and knowledge they need. mobility is important for getting to know other cultures, but also for getting to know yourself. less than a third of the eu population has a tertiary education, compared with 40% in the us and over 50% in japan, and europe needs to increase these numbers if it is to become more competitive in a growing world economy.
in writing. − the youth on the move initiative is part of the europe 2020 strategy and contains 28 measures to better adapt education and training systems to the needs of young people by encouraging them to take advantage of eu support to study or undertake training in another country. this initiative aims to increase the mobility of young people by ensuring that by 2020 all young people in the european union have the opportunity to study abroad. the present report, which has my support, draws attention to a number of situations which deserve special attention. in order to prevent this initiative from being a mere concept, it is necessary that member states commit themselves both in terms of financial support and implementation, and that an eu budget be adopted for this purpose. practical barriers and obstacles to mobility need to be overcome, as well as additional mechanisms need to be put in place to ensure that people with disabilities enjoy the same opportunities as everyone else. the mobility of secondary school students is equally important and programmes such as comenius should be further promoted in the member states.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. in addition to improving the chances of european students finding their first job, learning mobility promotes greater european awareness and citizenship, and therefore greater involvement of young people in the democratic processes of the union. that said, i support the efforts made to ensure the quality and accessibility of educational mobility and i stress the importance of the rapporteur's call for more member states to sign the commission's european charter on quality mobility.
in writing. - today, young people are one of the social groups most affected by the global economic and financial crisis. the eu and the member states have an obligation to support concrete and effective measures to enable people to make the transition to the labour market through better education, training and mobility. the youth on the move initiative responds precisely to this desire by addressing the challenges faced by young people and helping them to succeed in the knowledge economy. in the face of unacceptable youth unemployment, i believe that quality education and training, proper integration into the labour market and a strong focus on youth mobility are crucial to unlocking the potential of all young people and achieving the europe 2020 objectives. on the other hand, although this initiative focuses on employment as the end result, it does not dissociate aspects related to education, youth participation, active citizenship, mobility, language learning and a whole range of skills which are now fundamental in the context of non-formal education. i support the report presented and call for strong funding for the initiative, which is essential for sustainable growth.
in writing. - young people are largely characterised by their dynamism, their enormous generosity and their immense capacity for learning and assimilation. a europe with a future and which wants to become increasingly competitive and dynamic needs this important capital. the youth on the move programme, which is part of strategy 2020, is therefore an important systematization of programmes to support young people, with ambitious but very clear objectives, which i look back on and which i hope will be the target of strong participation by those to whom it is addressed. this initiative advocates the need to improve access to the labour market for young people - a very relevant objective at the moment, given the value of youth unemployment in several member states. the importance of the mobility of young europeans, both during their training and during their professional experience, is also of note. this multicultural and pluri-geographical training will provide a more complete and richer education, contributing to the building of an effective sense of european belonging which will help to cement the concept of european citizenship enshrined in the treaties. in supporting and strengthening these measures, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − the focus on education and training to achieve a higher level of qualification for young europeans is a key objective of the eu 2020 strategy and an instrument which i consider essential to combat unemployment and encourage entrepreneurship. the youth on the move initiative is therefore to be welcomed, particularly in its support and encouragement of student mobility and the recognition of qualifications, and in the importance it attaches to non-formal and informal training, which is often as important as or more important than formal learning. if europe is to succeed in meeting the ambitious objectives of the eu 2020 strategy with a strong focus on innovation, research and training , it will have to invest in better qualifying its young people, opting for education models that are more geared towards future integration into the labour market, paying particular attention to the skills that really prepare young people for the future.
in writing. - this report deals with the youth on the move initiative, which is expected to be a framework for improving education and training systems. it is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, which has as interlinked priorities smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this initiative consists of 28 key actions and concrete measures aimed at promoting education and training for young people through mobility and employability, meeting the eu 2020 strategy objectives of reducing school drop-out to below 10%, increasing the level of tertiary education from 31% to 40% by 2020 and reducing unemployment, especially among young people, which currently stands at around 21%. that is why, as the proponent of the preparatory action for young people your first eures job, i could not agree more with the proposals contained in the report and voted in favour of it, aware that the eu must continue and strengthen all measures to support our young people. only then will we achieve a stronger, more united and more inclusive europe.
in writing. - given the subject matter of the report and its length, it necessarily ends up addressing relevant issues, in some cases correctly, in others incorrectly or very insufficiently, and contradicting itself in some points. it refers, in particular, in the recitals, to important issues such as the decline in public investment in higher education, the increase in its attendance costs and its consequent elitisation - a question which is not properly addressed in the operative part. it also refers to the difficulties many young people have in joining mobility programmes for economic reasons, the problem of school drop-outs and unemployment and job insecurity among young people. and here are where their contradictions become more apparent: in endorsing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, it defends the path leading to the problems it identifies, namely the precarious employment of young people and unemployment. on the one hand, it advocates an end to discrimination against young people in the workplace, including pay; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. for these reasons we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - it is not enough to set out interesting principles if reality is not taken into account. quality education is needed from the earliest years of life to ensure the development of the human person and societies. but there is less and less money for quality public education, and students are faced with lack of support, unemployment from families and dropout, as is the case in portugal with the restrictive policies that are being practiced. the reality is therefore that there is a marked divestment in these areas. in the name of the crisis, the state is retreating, here too, calling into question its social function, with the result that inequalities in access to education, knowledge and culture are accentuated and, consequently, social inequalities are reproduced and deepened. the reality in member states such as portugal is that thousands of educational establishments are closing down, coupled with youth unemployment and the precarious employment of thousands of teachers, the chronic underfunding of the public higher education system and the rising costs of attendance. the reality is that budgets for culture have been reduced to poverty. the most serious of all is that the situation will worsen if the programme of intervention and aggression prepared by the imf, the ecb and the european commission is implemented.
in writing. − in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the skills and knowledge of young people are essential to achieving the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. youth therefore have a key role to play in achieving the five major eu 2020 goals: jobs, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction. the youth on the move initiative is thus emblematic of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to enhance the attractiveness of the higher education system in europe, the overall quality of all levels of education and training and the mobility of students and workers by making better use of existing european programmes. support for this initiative is therefore essential if we are to have young people in the future who are increasingly qualified and prepared to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this report is based on the creation of a framework to improve european education and training systems. this measure is one of the key actions of the youth on the move initiative, which is part of the europe 2020 strategy of the european commission to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth. the aim is to increase education and training for young people through mobility and facilitating the transition of young people from education to the labour market. we are faced with a very topical issue, in that young people, being one of the social groups most affected by the global financial crisis and having done the least to cause it, must be supported in accessing the labour market to secure their future and boost the economy. in fact, mobility can be a driver of this transition from education to the labour market. in this sense, i believe that one of the most important factors in educational mobility is to ensure a high quality of education and at the same time make it accessible to all young people. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − at a time when young people are facing the effects of the global financial crisis in a particularly acute way, everything must be done to ensure that they can develop the skills, qualifications and knowledge that will enable them to actively contribute to the growth and sustainable future of the european union. the youth on the move initiative is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the european commission's europe 2020 strategy to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, comprising 28 key actions and concrete measures to increase education and training for young people through mobility and ease of transition of young people from education to the labour market. it is therefore very important that the conditions be created to ensure that it is actually implemented and that the objectives for which it is intended are achieved.
in writing. − the youth on the move initiative, one of the seven eu 2020 initiatives, is made up of 28 key actions to improve education and training for young people through mobility and the integration of young people into the labour market. the relevance of this report in times of european austerity is evidenced by the increasing percentage of young people unemployed in the different member states, concluding that this age group is one of the most affected by the global financial crisis. i therefore consider it essential that measures be taken to reduce early school leaving, to increase the number of graduates and to make vocational education and training more attractive. the commitment to education and training should not be seen as an expense but as an investment in the future. as such, i believe it is important to reinvest in existing mobility and education/training programmes and to establish minimum conditions at european level for traineeships, as they should not be seen as employment but rather as the acquisition of practical knowledge. finally, i would stress the need to coordinate these measures with national, regional and local authorities in the form of partnerships in order to make the youth on the move initiative a success.
in writing. - i support this proposal, as pre-school and early childhood education is given according to different traditions across the european continent, which makes the creation of a universal european system for early childhood education very complex, and common goals and objectives are easier to implement so that practices are harmonised in a coherent way.
in writing. − building a strong foundation in the early years of a child's life in education and care, in addition to the central role of the family, is the essential foundation for success in lifelong learning, social integration, personal development and future employability. the first experiences of children form the basis of all subsequent learning, conditioning children's development and helping to reverse any situations of disadvantage and of poverty transmission between generations. by empowering children to realise their potential, quality education and care structures can make a strong contribution to achieving two of the major goals of the europe 2020 strategy: reducing early school leaving to below 10% and lifting at least 20 million people out of poverty and social exclusion. i therefore support the development of a european framework of common goals and values, including shared rights and structures, contributing to the design of appropriate early childhood education and care services, which should be effectively and equitably funded.
in writing. - i voted for the report on early childhood learning because i believe that parental leave is an essential component of the early years of a child's life. the appropriate response to the needs of children is to advocate better conditions for maternity, paternity and parental leave, thus placing both parents at the centre of the education of their children.
in writing. − as i said in connection with the youth on the move initiative, education is an essential tool for achieving the ambitious objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. this applies not only to secondary and tertiary education but also to the first learning, which is done in childhood. it is essential that european children have access to quality education that prepares them in a demanding way for the basic skills of their mother tongue, mathematics and one (or more) foreign languages and enables them to acquire the working methods necessary for the successful and productive pursuit of studies that we want for young europeans.
in writing. − this report focuses on early childhood learning in the european union. we all know that building a building starts with the foundation. when the foundation is bad, sustainability is compromised and the building can collapse. the same is true of education. a sound and quality basic education guarantees citizens a better future. early intervention is crucial for the future of the child: it improves health and family relationships, and makes it possible to obtain a better job in the future. early learning is a very important aspect which has not been given the attention it deserves. more important than the quality of the buildings is the preparation of the human resources. the quality of services and the professional qualifications of workers in the sector need to be improved. i agree with the definition of parameters and values common to all member states, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report focuses on the crucial issue of early learning and its positive impacts on cognitive, physical, behavioural, affective and emotional development. these are the determining factors for a healthy and balanced mental and physical growth of children. the report acknowledges some relevant aspects in its recitals, such as the link between a poor and disadvantaged environment and low qualifications, or the great difficulties of many families in articulating family obligations with the deregulation of working hours and job insecurity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. early learning should be based on the guarantee of a free, quality, public pre-school network, accessible to all, as essential for social development and the fight against poverty. education cannot be at the mercy of mercantilist logic. a public network of day-care centres must be developed, covering a wider geographical area and offering greater openness to educational models that encourage the development of the child and society, combat social segregation and discrimination, and provide a better life and future.
in writing. − the issue of early learning is the crucial topic of this report, which focuses on its positive impacts on cognitive, physical, behavioural, affective and emotional development. these are the determining factors for a healthy and balanced mental and physical growth of children. the report acknowledges some relevant aspects in its recitals, such as the link between a poor and disadvantaged environment and low qualifications, or the great difficulties of many families in articulating family obligations with the deregulation of working hours and job insecurity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. early learning should be based on the guarantee of a free, quality, public pre-school network, accessible to all, as essential for social development and the fight against poverty. education cannot be at the mercy of mercantilist logic. a public network of day-care centres, kindergartens and kindergartens must be developed, covering a wider geographical area and being more open to educational models, encouraging the development of the child and society, combating social segregation and discrimination, so as to provide a better life and future.
in writing. - it is agreed that early childhood learning is the foundation for successful lifelong learning. at this stage in their lives, children have a special curiosity, a desire to learn and a capacity for absorption, and it is during this period that important language and expression skills, but also social skills, are shaped; this is the age when the foundations for future school and professional careers are laid. we must therefore make the necessary efforts to ensure that all children in early childhood have access to the same learning conditions without discrimination of any kind.
in writing. − early childhood care and education is provided in different ways across the european union, with different definitions of quality depending strongly on the cultural values of the states and regions and their interpretation of childhood. early childhood learning is the foundation for successful lifelong learning, which is central to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. in this context, i voted in favour of this report on early childhood learning which sets common objectives for the european union to pursue the objectives of the barcelona european council, namely to ensure that by 2010 at least 90% of children between the age of three and the age of compulsory schooling and at least 33% of children up to the age of three are enrolled. i join the rapporteur in calling for these objectives to be made even more ambitious. it is a child-centred approach and recognises that the early years of childhood are crucial for cognitive, sensory and physical development, for emotional and personal development, and for language acquisition, and also form the basis for lifelong learning.
in writing. − early childhood is the prime time for children to develop a set of cognitive and social skills whose repercussions will be felt throughout life. for example, consider the ability to speak several languages. however, studies of this stage of learning and its importance in the general context of education are residual, with negative repercussions, for example, for those who grow up in the most disadvantaged families, where children's cognitive development is often less stimulated. there is therefore an urgent need to increase early childhood care and education (ecce). i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission will also be proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment. it welcomed the european commission's proposal to open negotiations for the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania. welcomes the european commission's proposal to include a human rights clause in the agreement and calls on the commission to open a dialogue with mauritania to help it further develop a responsible fisheries policy which meets conservation requirements and its objective of promoting the economic development of fisheries resources. it also called on the commission to take urgent measures to reduce by-catches by european vessels fishing in mauritanian waters.
in writing. - i welcome the commission's proposal to open negotiations on the renewal of the protocol between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania. this country has been losing added value because of the lack of opportunity to exploit its own fisheries resources. however, all the implications arising from this, especially at economic and social level, need to be studied. it is essential to take into account that the fisheries sector is extremely important for the mauritanian economy, and that this is one of the poorest countries in africa, being financially dependent on external aid and subject to strong political instability. for all these reasons, which require the special attention that has been duly given to the epp motion for a resolution, i support the legislative text presented today by this group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania, because i regard the renewal of the agreement, which should include a human rights clause, as a positive step. i think it is necessary to continue to help the country to develop further a responsible fisheries policy which meets the requirements for the conservation of fishery resources.
in writing. - in view of the future expiry of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement currently in force, it is logical that the commission intends to enter into negotiations with the counterpart for its renewal. mauritania is a poor country, heavily dependent on this sector, so maintaining the agreement with the european union could be beneficial for both signatories. like the rapporteur, i believe that a rigorous assessment of the current state of stocks and the various types of fish in mauritanian waters is necessary.
in writing. - the proposal for a european parliament joint resolution on the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania, which expires on 31 july 2012. the european commission, aware of the importance of renewing this partnership and in accordance with the council's mandate, has initiated a process aimed at renewing this protocol, in full respect of article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the current agreement with mauritania has contributed to the economic development of mauritania, where the fisheries sector is one of the key pillars of the economy, accounting for about 10% of gdp, 29% of national budget revenue and almost 50% of exports. but it is also essential for the european union (eu), and in particular for its fishing fleets. i agree with this proposal, which i voted for, but i think that scientific monitoring of the control of catches, the modernisation of the navigation control systems and the cleaning up of wreckage is necessary. in addition, surveillance and the seizure of illegal vessels must be strengthened.
in writing. - this resolution raises important questions, in line with the questions, criticisms and suggestions we have been making for a long time about the fisheries partnership agreements, and especially about the very insufficient achievement of their cooperation objectives. we welcome the fact that several of the points in our resolution have been incorporated in this joint resolution. among the most relevant aspects, we highlight: the need to make an exhaustive and detailed assessment of the causes of the insufficient achievement of the objectives of development cooperation and the various lines of support for the fisheries sector in mauritania; the advocacy of support for the construction, as soon as possible, of suitable landing facilities along the central and southern coast of mauritania (including nouakchott), so that fish caught in mauritanian waters can be landed in national ports and not outside the country, as is often the case today; that fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries should be preceded by a broad debate in the countries concerned that allows the participation of the public, civil society organisations and national parliaments, thus promoting greater democracy and transparency.
in writing. - the fisheries partnership agreements, as they are currently undertaken and implemented by the eu, give rise to a number of reservations. it is a special one, it is clear that its objectives in the field of cooperation are not sufficiently achieved. we support the principle, enshrined in the united nations convention on the law of the sea, that access granted to the eu must cover the quantities that the mauritanian fleet is not able to catch. in addition, this resolution contains a number of positive aspects, such as: - that fisheries agreements between the eu and third countries should be preceded by a broad debate in the countries concerned, which allows for the participation of the public, civil society organisations and national parliaments, thus promoting greater democracy and transparency; - the financial support granted to the multiannual fisheries programme of mauritania must be adjusted to the country's needs for the sustainable development of fisheries; - the need to carry out a thorough and detailed assessment of the causes of the insufficient achievement of the objectives of development cooperation and of the various lines of support for the fisheries sector in mauritania. for these reasons, we voted in favour.
in writing. − the current protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with mauritania expires on 31 july 2012 and has to be renegotiated so that eu-flagged vessels can continue to fish in mauritanian waters. it is therefore a good opportunity to add improvements to the existing agreement. infrastructure improvements and the construction of adequate landing facilities along the central and southern coast of mauritania should be promoted to allow the eu fleet to operate more effectively, facilitating investment flows and increasing the impact of this agreement on the local economy. as regards the stocks caught, the surplus stocks and those which cannot be caught by the mauritanian fishing fleet should be used, so that the environmental balance is maintained and the activity is sustainable over the years.
in writing. − fisheries agreements with third countries should ensure a fair balance between economic interests and the promotion of sustainable fisheries. in this respect, it is important that the eu, under the partnership agreements it establishes, ensures good cross-border fishing practices, in full respect of the fundamental principles of the cfp. the fight against illegal fishing, the creation of jobs, the reduction of poverty levels in third countries and the supply of quality consumer products to the community market are fundamental objectives to be ensured under this agreement with mauritania. it is also urgent to ensure that mauritania requires third countries with which it has other agreements to respect the same rules as those applied to community-flagged vessels, thus avoiding competitive inequalities which are to the detriment of the community fleet.
in writing. − i support this proposal, considering that it will benefit the eu, as a well-functioning public procurement market is essential to promote the single market, stimulate innovation, promote a high level of environmental and climate protection, and social inclusion across the eu. particularly in view of the need to overcome the financial and economic crisis and to protect against possible future crises, public procurement is of crucial relevance as a catalyst for the revitalisation of the eu economy and, consequently, for employment and welfare. i share the conviction that a sound and properly considered process of optimising the legal framework for public procurement is of vital importance for the well-being of eu citizens, eu consumers and businesses, national, regional and local authorities and thus for the acceptance of the eu as a whole.
in writing. − public procurement represents important economic opportunities for businesses, is of significant importance in promoting the single market, stimulates innovation, promotes environmental and climate protection, and social inclusion. public procurement policy should ensure the most efficient use of public money and keep public procurement markets open, contributing to the revitalization of the european union's economy, job creation and welfare. public procurement also plays a key role in the europe 2020 strategy and is one of the instruments to be used to achieve the proposed objectives. this motion for a resolution calls on the commission to address the issue of balanced access to public sector markets and to review public procurement and concessions, thus allowing for the involvement of the european parliament, the member states and citizens and businesses. it also called on the commission to give priority to modernising the rules on public procurement. equally important is the request it makes to the commission to assess the problems associated with the abnormally low tenders and to propose appropriate solutions. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - given that public procurement represents millions of euros annually, its economic importance cannot be called into question. for this reason, although there is a long tradition of community legislation on these same contracts, it is never too much to ask for better and more effective laws, which ensure full transparency of procedures; which prevent all forms of corruption or manipulation of tenders for the benefit of a competitor; which limit to the maximum the number and value of contracts awarded without a competition or without negotiation; and which ensure effective competition in the internal market between competing undertakings, regardless of their country of origin.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. the eu has adopted a number of documents on this subject, including directives (2004/18/ec, 2004/17/ec, 93/13/ec and 2007/66/ec), resolutions (ep, 18 may 2010), reports (mario monti, a new strategy for the single market at the service of the european economy and society), the european commission communication an act for the single market towards a highly competitive social market economy and the european commission green paper on the modernisation of eu public procurement policy. a well-functioning public procurement market is essential to overcome the current financial and economic crisis in order to revitalise the economy and safeguard equal treatment. i declare that i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it goes against the principle of better lawmaking and gives priority to the modernisation of the rules on public procurement and concessions, which is a significant improvement in eu law.
in writing. - we are facing another attempt to force the liberalization of public procurement. the eu is pursuing this aim both at home and in third countries through free trade agreements. in both cases, the intention is the same: to prevent countries from protecting their companies in public procurement, to make life easier for the economic groups of the powers that want to dominate the awarding of public contracts, through sacrosanct competition. we do not agree with this approach, but we do recognize that there are important changes to be made in this area. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities is based on the principle of proportionality. the committee on budgets has also called for a balanced composition, including trade unions and representatives of enterprises, particularly smes, and for greater transparency both in the committee on budgets and in the advisory committee which the commission intends to set up to deal with public-private partnerships.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. while in one case or another this may be true, in most cases it is not. what they want to do is to prevent any country from trying to protect its companies in public procurement, just to make life easier for the economic groups of the powers that want to dominate the awarding of public contracts as well. that is why we are voting against it. however, there are some aspects of the resolution with which we agree, in particular the criticism of the lack of transparency in the composition and work of the commission's internal services' consultative group on public procurement procedures (acpp) and the role and powers of the advisory committee on public procurement (acpp), calling on the commission to ensure a balanced composition, including trade unions and representatives of companies, particularly smes, and greater transparency, both of that committee and of the advisory committee which the commission intends to set up to deal with public-private partnerships. similarly, it seems appropriate to stress in the context of the european union's commitments to public procurement at international level the importance of strengthening anti-corruption mechanisms in the field of public procurement and draws attention to the need to focus efforts on ensuring transparency and fairness in the use of public funds; calls for the european parliament to be duly informed and to be provided with all available information at all stages and at the end of the procedure.
in writing. − a well-functioning public procurement market is of key importance for promoting a single market, stimulating innovation, boosting employment, growth and competitiveness, promoting a high level of environmental and climate protection and the protection of social rights across the eu, and for delivering the highest value for public authorities, citizens and taxpayers. with the aim of overcoming the financial and economic crisis and protecting against possible future crises, public procurement is of crucial relevance as a catalyst for the revitalisation of the eu economy and, consequently, for employment and welfare in the eu. a sound and well-balanced process for optimising the legal framework for public procurement is therefore of vital importance for the well-being of eu citizens, eu consumers and businesses, and national, regional and local authorities.
in writing. − a well-functioning public procurement market is of key importance to promote the single market, stimulate innovation, promote a high level of environmental and climate protection as well as social inclusion across the eu, and to deliver the highest value for public authorities, citizens and taxpayers. for these reasons i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on equal access to public sector markets in the eu and in third countries and on the review of the legal framework for public procurement, including concessions. in this respect, i join the proponents of this resolution in calling on the commission to give priority to modernising the rules on public procurement and to deal with service concessions in order to avoid further fragmentation of eu public procurement law, in line with the principles of better regulation.
in writing. − a well-functioning public procurement market is of key importance to promote the european single market and stimulate innovation and investment. in order to overcome the current economic and financial crisis, public procurement is proving to be of enormous importance as a driver of the european economy, contributing to job creation. the european union rejects the possibility of protectionist measures and aims at equal access to public sector markets in the european union and in third countries. in this respect, the eu strongly believes in the principle of reciprocity, mutual benefit and proportionality in this area. to this end, i advocate better coherence between the common commercial policy and the practices of states that accept exceptionally low bids from companies from countries not party to the agreement on government procurement, putting companies from eu member states at a disadvantage. i therefore reiterate the call of this house for priority to be given to modernising the rules on public procurement in order to avoid their fragmentation and to encourage companies to use this route.
in writing. - the need for the european fisheries fund (eff) to continue to grant aid to improve the selectivity of fishing gear and to replace engines for reasons of safety, environmental protection and/or fuel economy, especially for small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing; by calling on the commission to draw up a medium- and long-term plan to improve fuel efficiency in the fisheries sector (including aquaculture); it also called on the commission to improve fuel efficiency in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, suggesting an action plan tailored to coastal and island regions with a dynamic fisheries sector.
in writing. - i express my deep solidarity with the european fishermen whose wages have been directly affected by the increase in the price of oil, which has seriously aggravated their economic fragility linked to the irregular nature of activity in this sector. i think it is essential to introduce mechanisms to promote the appreciation of prices paid at production, and to this end to keep prices paid at final consumption as low as possible. i therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe group, which duly emphasizes the points mentioned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the crisis in the european fisheries sector due to the increase in the price of oil, which has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector, with direct impacts on the income of fishermen. emergency measures of a temporary nature are needed to deal with the difficult economic situation facing european fishermen, but the commission should develop a medium- and long-term plan to improve fuel efficiency in the fisheries sector, including aquaculture.
in writing. - fishing is an essential economic activity for european countries, especially for maritime countries such as the one i come from, and as such this parliament must pay particular attention to the conditions affecting the fishing population. the increase in the price of fuel - an essential cost for the continuation of fishing - has had a huge impact on fishermen's income. at a time of severe economic and financial crisis, when all possible support to maintain businesses and jobs is scarce, i welcome the proposal made in this resolution by my colleagues from the epp to support eu fishermen and to raise the de minimis aid threshold from eur 30 000 to eur 60 000 per company over the three-year period. this will help the fishing industry to cope with the increase in operating costs linked to the price of oil.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. this increase is felt above all at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) often family-level whose workers begin to see their jobs as being at stake. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal and hope that the member states will soon be able to increase support for fishermen and that the european union, through the european fisheries fund (eff), will increase the rates of participation for the improvement and modernisation of vessels and equipment and will set up a fund to which smes can turn in case of difficulty. support for small-scale fishermen is particularly important.
in writing. - it was good that the ep adopted this resolution. the significant increase in fuel prices has seriously aggravated the crisis facing the fisheries sector, its economic viability and has reduced the already meagre incomes of fishermen. the current sales dynamics do not allow the fluctuations in the cost of production factors, including fuel, to be reflected in fish prices, which is also due to the current import policy. average first selling prices have in many cases been stagnating or declining for several years without this being reflected in a decrease in prices to the final consumer of fresh fish. the current common market organisation (cmo) for fishery products has not been able to contribute sufficiently to improving prices at first sale and to a better distribution of value added in the value chain of the sector. the economic situation of a large number of companies has deteriorated in recent years, leading to the disappearance of many of them, and there is a real risk that thousands of fishing companies will disappear and thousands of jobs will be destroyed due to the increase in fuel prices. small-scale coastal fishing is particularly vulnerable. these measures must be implemented.
in writing. - the recent increase in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the fisheries sector and is causing concern among many fishermen who do not know how to cope with these additional costs. we must not forget that the increase in the price of oil directly affects the income of fishermen. the uncertainty of the incomes and wages of fishermen, due to various factors such as the irregular nature of the activity, the marketing approaches used and the way in which prices are formed at first sale, makes it necessary to maintain certain national and community public aids. the financial and economic crisis is having a particular impact on industrial sectors and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and is affecting activity and employment in the primary and secondary sectors. as in the past, we now have to adopt emergency measures of a temporary nature to overcome the difficulties facing the fisheries sector in the context of rising fuel prices.
in writing. the world economic crisis, aggravated by the political crisis in the maghreb and the middle east, has led to a further increase in fuel prices, with the price of a barrel rising above $100. in the face of the political instability that has plagued the arab world, this figure could still soar. the energy bill represents the largest share of the operating costs for the fisheries sector and, unlike other activities, the sector cannot counteract the increase in this cost by increasing production, due to the catch ceiling established by the tacs and quotas. despite the diversity of opinions on how the fisheries sector should be managed, there is a consensus point that should be highlighted: fishing is a very important activity for the food supply of the european population and a source of employment for many of the eu's coastal communities where there are no alternative occupations. to ensure the continuity of fishing activity and to avoid supply disruptions and increased unemployment in the sector, the eu should raise the ceiling set by the de minimis regulation to values close to eur 60 000, as well as adopt other measures capable of mitigating the recent increase in fuel prices.
in writing. - the cost of fishing activity is highly dependent on the price of oil. in this respect, and since the recent increase in oil prices has affected the economic viability of the sector, it is important that emergency measures be taken to deal with the difficult economic situation facing european fishermen.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's public authorities, including the public procurement authorities. the excessive administrative bureaucracy which is a hindrance to most small and mediumsized enterprises must be eliminated. the system of access to such financing by enterprises needs to be simplified and improved.
in writing. − the small business act (sba) is the strategic framework for more effective exploitation of the growth and innovation potential of smes, to be implemented in the eu and the member states. there are some 23 million smes in the eu, representing some 99% of all businesses and creating over 100 million jobs, playing an important role in economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. this resolution, which i supported, acknowledges that several of the sba initiatives have been initiated. however, much more can be done to help european smes, including: the swift transposition by member states of the late payment directive; the need for the commission to have more effective mechanisms to encourage member states to apply the principles of the sba; the adoption by member states of the latest pending proposal on the statute of the european private company as soon as possible; the importance of the commission and the member states ensuring that the sme test is regularly carried out in impact assessments; the imperative of reducing the bureaucratic and administrative burden on smes; the permanent institutionalisation of the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs with an appropriate budget.
in writing. - i welcome the creation and development of the small business act, which in my view provides timely solutions to the main obstacles smes face in expanding their activities and entering the market. many of these obstacles are due to excessive bureaucracy and difficulties in obtaining funding. the small business act encourages member states to improve the business environment for the benefit of smes and therefore its principles should be properly worked out and adopted.
in writing. - small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) alone account for about 99% of all businesses and create more than 100 million jobs in the european union. it is therefore vital for economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. the small business act (sba) is based on fundamental principles such as access to finance and markets and better regulation. however, it is undeniable that smes continue to face a number of problems, such as the difficulty of expanding their activities, difficult access to markets or the numerous difficulties in obtaining financing. in this respect, i welcome the conclusions of the commission's analysis and i welcome these new proposals, which aim to improve access to finance and markets and to move forward with the process of de-bureaucratisation.
in writing. − this european parliament resolution examines the small business act (sba), a set of policy principles aimed at supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in terms of access to finance and markets, and improving legislation. the role of smes in the european union (eu) at social, economic and financial levels is unquestionable. in the eu, there are some 23 million of them, representing 99% of the business sector and creating over 100 million jobs. the current financial crisis has had a negative impact on these companies. hence the need to review existing legislation in order to facilitate access to finance, reduce administrative costs and all the red tape, encourage energy saving (currently only 24% of companies value this issue), improve business technology through eco-innovation, encourage the improvement of the level of qualifications, education and vocational training, and promote internationalisation and good governance. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution. i hope that all smes will benefit from these measures and become prosperous, because all european citizens will benefit.
in writing. - we are faced with another resolution full of contradictions. on the one hand, it welcomes the commission's appointment of the new sme representative and supports his mandate to monitor progress made by the member states in implementing the sba and to defend the interests of smes in all commission services, in particular by ensuring the effective application of the 'think small first' principle. a positive recommendation is made: member states are asked to appoint national representatives for smes to coordinate policies relating to smes and to monitor the application of the sba in the different administrations. we also welcome the fact that the commission points out that the smaller the enterprise, the higher the administrative burden, and therefore calls for a distinction to be made between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. but on the other hand, the resolution does not address (or does not address enough) many of the constraints, direct and indirect, which today weigh on smes - many of them stemming from the dominant policies at eu level.
in writing. - welcomes the commission's appointment of the new sme representative and supports his mandate to monitor progress made by the member states in implementing the sba and to defend the interests of smes in all commission services, in particular by ensuring the effective application of the 'think small first' principle; calls on the member states to appoint national representatives for smes to coordinate policies relating to smes and to monitor the implementation of the sba across administrations.' but on the other hand, it does not criticize or propose alternatives to the neoliberal and restrictive policies of the stability pact, which are causing so many problems for smes and the general population. welcomes, however, the fact that administrative burdens are relatively higher the smaller the enterprise and therefore calls for a distinction to be made between micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european company register is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in the labour market. we will be keeping an eye on the development of its application.
in writing. − we must not forget that the 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu represent around 99% of all businesses and create over 100 million jobs, play a key role in contributing to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation, are an important source of innovation, are vital for maintaining and expanding employment, and contribute to achieving the main objectives set out in the flagship initiatives under the europe 2020 strategy. the small business act (sba) is based on a number of key policy principles, such as access to finance and markets (single market, international markets, public procurement) and improved regulation. we must encourage the member states to adopt their guidelines in order to help smes in this crisis scenario.
in writing. - the purpose of this resolution is to give parliament's view on the commission's review of the small business act. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used in a fair and transparent manner. as i have said, the strengthening of smes is fundamental to promoting economic growth. in this context, i would stress the proposals made by the ep in the field of research and innovation, in particular the simplification of the financing of research, development and innovation (rdi) activities and the promotion of proper programme management, especially for the benefit of smes, as well as the strengthening of the financing of innovation capacities throughout the cycle, including non-technological innovation, within the framework of the future financial framework for research and innovation. i also support investment in local support for smes through, for example, the involvement of innovation centres, chambers of commerce, business organisations and innovation hubs throughout the single market.
in writing. − smes account for around 99% of all enterprises in the eu and make a key contribution to economic growth: in addition to being a source of employment and wealth, they are also particularly suitable vehicles for innovation. it is therefore essential to continue to offer them the conditions to develop and establish themselves in the market, guaranteeing them access to finance and the potential of the single market. in this respect, the commission's review of the small business act should be welcomed and the new proposals put forward to pursue the objectives of supporting smes should be supported.
in writing. - i support this proposal, agreeing with the rapporteur that unity makes strength. joining forces to innovate, finding solutions to common problems in europe, means faster developments, (cost) efficiency and more creative power. the innovation union should also strengthen europe's competitive strength, helping to find a way out of the economic crisis. since europe is heavily dependent on imports, member states feel a common need to look for smart and sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials needed for energy production as well as for industry or food production. the ageing of the population is another challenge facing almost all eu countries. to ensure longer life spans in good health, with proper care and medicines, but at the same time reducing costs, a joint approach could yield faster results. today, europe's economies are so interdependent that a joint approach is needed not only to ensure the stability of the euro but also to strengthen the competitive position of the member states. a joint path towards a fair and stable economy.
in writing. - i welcome the focus in this report on research and innovation as a way of overcoming the economic and social crisis europe is currently experiencing. indeed, new sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials more intelligently and efficiently are increasingly needed. it is therefore necessary to create space for new ideas and, more importantly, to create the mechanisms necessary to put these ideas into practice. i therefore support the report on the innovation union and its importance in the present context and for europe's success in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents a set of measures to successfully tackle a number of societal challenges, including climate change, energy and resource scarcity, an ageing population and difficult access to quality public and health services. the eu should make every effort to achieve the proposed objectives. it is estimated that by 2020 it will be possible to create 3.7 million jobs and increase annual gdp by close to eur 800 billion by 2025.
in writing. − this own-initiative report follows the european commission's communication on an innovation union and is one of the eu 2020 strategy initiatives, aiming to stimulate innovation and competitiveness through the creation of robust policies that stimulate the exchange of ideas and solutions to a range of cross-cutting problems across all member states. the key to this idea is to stimulate and promote activities which prove effective and competitive, both in crisis and post-crisis situations, and which enable the union as a whole to overcome the shortcomings of several sectors, particularly industry. so this is an ambitious report, given the issues it covers, from the protection of intellectual property rights to greater cooperation between member states and the commission. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on her commitment and hope that, with more of this contribution, we can achieve all the objectives proposed in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this report, by judith merkies mep, proposes an innovation union as a way of preparing europe for a world after the current economic and financial crisis. the unprecedented world crisis, which is likely to persist and which could put the european project in jeopardy, requires a firm and motivating stance from everyone, and in particular from the european union. so, in addition to voting in favour of this report, i would like to commend the work of the rapporteur, who gives us an optimistic view of the future and appeals to the capacity for innovation that we all have. it is important that the proposals advocated in this report are implemented, such as better access to credit and financial support, more investment in r & d, clearer legislation, less red tape, a one-stop shop, better interregional cooperation, a simple and cheap european patent.
in writing. the report highlights the importance of innovation, in its many dimensions, for the development of societies. it does so by making important contributions in a number of areas and by making proposals - for example, on increasing the spread and uptake of innovation in a number of sectors - which we consider relevant. in the opinion i was responsible for in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on this same subject, i tried to summarise the essence of our vision and concerns in this field. the commission's proposal for an opinion will make it clear that there are clear discrepancies with the commission's communication. they focus mainly on aspects which are also incorporated in this report and which are the source of some of the contradictions which make it sick: the view of innovation as essentially a business opportunity, the predominance given to the market, competition, the instrumentalisation and commercialisation of innovation, the defence of the internal market, community patents. these are the aspects that deserve our disagreement. another issue that was not sufficiently addressed was the risk of a division in innovation between the most innovative countries and regions and the others, as we expressed in the debate, a risk that was clearly evident in the results of the 2009 innovation panel.
in writing. - the report gives sufficient emphasis to innovation as a necessary means of helping to respond to many of the problems and challenges facing humanity today. it should be a key element of public policies in areas such as the environment, water, energy, transport, telecommunications, health and education and help to solve problems such as scarcity and resource efficiency, waste recovery and treatment, food quality and safety, demographic change, emerging epidemics, nature conservation and biodiversity. but the report contains some contradictions, considering that the context of some of it is neoliberalism, with the defence of the internal market and community patents, which we disagree with. the current constraints on member states may result in further restrictions on investment in ct&i, in particular in the most vulnerable countries. the result could be, instead of the so-called innovation union, a genuine division in innovation between the most innovative countries and regions and the others. where the public interest, development, cohesion, progress and social welfare should have been, what ended up prevailing were the so-called business opportunities, the market, competition, competition, the instrumentalisation and commodification of innovation.
in writing. − innovation is finding solutions to common problems in europe, meaning greater focus, faster developments, (cost) efficiency and more creative power. the innovation union should not only solve common problems, but also strengthen europe's competitive strength, finding a way out of the economic crisis. since europe is heavily dependent on imports, member states feel a common need to look for smart and sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials needed for energy production as well as for industry or food production. today, europe's economies are so interdependent that a joint approach is needed not only to ensure the stability of the euro but also to strengthen the competitive position of the member states. a joint path towards a fair and stable economy. the objectives of the 2020 strategy can only be achieved by a united europe.
in writing. − this report on an innovation union: transforming europe for a post-crisis world contains a set of measures which represent major societal challenges. the rapporteur presents the key idea of creating a union among all europeans to innovate. indeed, as is argued, finding solutions to common problems in europe is a challenge for faster developments, greater (cost) efficiency and more creative power. the innovation union also aims to strengthen the competitiveness of europe as a whole and to find a way out of the economic crisis. given the widespread dependence on imports, member states feel a common need to look for smart and sustainable ways of using resources and raw materials needed for energy production as well as for industry or food production. the problem of an ageing population is another challenge facing almost all eu countries. a joint approach to issues such as health can ensure more years of life with proper care and medication, while reducing costs. these are just some of the major points of common ground between the 27 member states which motivate this initiative and justify my vote in favour.
in writing. - innovation is structural, in any area and community. indeed, the ability to recreate what is offered to us and, from there, to make room for something new is essential for the development of any economy and, above all, for achieving social well-being. that is why the innovation union is one of the flagships of the europe 2020 strategy. it is a path which clearly must be followed for the affirmation of europe in the international context and for meeting the needs of its citizens. these are the reasons for my vote in favour.
in writing. − the innovation union scoreboard shows that japan/usa invest more in innovation as a percentage of gdp than the eu, with a growing gap over the last 4 years. compared to the brics, the eu has higher investment, with a narrower spread between brazil and china and a wider spread between india and russia. in this context, i consider it essential that the european union adopts a genuine innovation strategy, taking into account the europe 2020 smart specialisation, with a view to strengthening support for r & d & i activities as a key element of the future of the union, extending its action to all the themes, sectors of activity and societal actors that make it up. a consistent, integrated innovation policy with a long-term view will make it possible to build on strengths and address weaknesses identified at regional level, and it is vital to adapt and simplify development policies (e.g. esf, erdf). the new strategic agenda will make it possible to build an increasingly modern, competitive and world-leading europe. as innovation is a key objective of regional policy, europe must in future adopt a strategic management approach, defining the appropriate policy instruments to monitor its development and make the necessary adjustments.
in writing. - i approve this proposal taking into account that the crisis is eliminating millions of jobs and has aggravated precarious employment and poverty; that 17% of eu residents are at risk of poverty; and that 23 million eu residents are unemployed and that much of domestic work is done in the informal economy, in precarious employment conditions and/or as undeclared work and that, in addition, in industrialized countries, domestic work accounts for between 5 and 9% of all employment, that the vast majority of workers employed in this sector are women and that this work is undervalued, poorly paid and informal, and that the vulnerability of domestic workers means that they are often subject to unfair or abusive discrimination. i welcome and support the ilo's initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation on decent work for domestic workers; i call on the eu member states belonging to the ilo to adopt these instruments at the ilo conference in june 2011.
in writing. - it is well known that domestic work is often precarious and informal and that this precariousness and informality seriously jeopardises the rights of providers of this type of service who nevertheless participate in the economic activity of their countries and should be considered as workers like others. the degree of trust between employers and employees which such an activity requires is such that the employment relationship is not burdened with excessive formalities, but at the same time it justifies the worker's being able to exercise his profession with dignity. the ilo convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, could be a further step in this direction.
in writing. - this european parliament resolution (ep) deals with the proposal for an international labour organisation (ilo) convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers. the ilo will hold another conference in geneva in june on the problem of domestic work. the eu, although prevented from formally participating, since it is the member states that are part of it, aware of its responsibilities for cooperation with the ilo, has not been unwilling to make its contribution in a matter that we can call fundamental rights. the importance of housework is unquestionable. this is a local work (support for upwards and downwards) included in the eu 2020 strategy and represents between 5 and 9% of all eu employment, with a tendency to increase. however, domestic workers - mostly women and immigrants - are often exploited by employers who do not guarantee their social rights. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the adoption of the ilo convention, supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, is an important step forward which we welcome. in the various countries, as was clear during the debate, these workers are mostly women, with an increasing proportion of undocumented immigrants. these are among the most vulnerable groups and are more exposed to phenomena such as violence or sexual abuse. it would be important that action be taken in this respect at the next international labour conference. the serious conditions of exploitation and discrimination in which they work are well known. many of these domestic workers work in undignified conditions, subject to intense exploitation, without guaranteed rights such as the right to social security, health and safety protection and maternity protection, limits on working time, rest, freedom of association and representation. the need for regulation of domestic work is thus evident. effective policies to combat precarious work, false green certificates, undeclared work and illegal work are therefore urgently needed.
in writing. - we consider it important to move towards the adoption of an ilo convention supplemented by a recommendation on domestic workers, who are mostly women and increasingly undocumented immigrants, and who are among the most vulnerable groups and subject to violence or sexual abuse. it would be very positive if the next international labour conference took a decisive step in this direction. the serious conditions of exploitation and discrimination in which many of these domestic workers work are well known, and it is therefore of the utmost urgency that domestic work be regulated to prevent them from continuing to be exposed to very poor working conditions, without guaranteed rights such as the right to social security, health and safety protection and maternity protection, limits on working time, rest, freedom of association and representation. effective policies to combat precarious work, false green certificates, undeclared work and illegal work are therefore urgently needed. it is essential to transform all precarious work into stable work with rights and a decent wage.
in writing. − with domestic work accounting for between 5% and 9% of all employment, and given that the vast majority of workers employed in this sector are women, that this work is undervalued, poorly paid and informal, and that the vulnerability of domestic workers means that they are often discriminated against and can easily be subject to unequal, unfair or abusive treatment, solutions need to be found to eliminate these types of situations. i therefore welcome this ilo convention which draws attention to the problems of domestic work.
in writing. - the european parliament wishes to express its support for the ilo's initiative to adopt a convention supplemented by a recommendation on decent work for domestic workers. in fact, migrant workers who accept low-skilled temporary jobs on the periphery of the labour market or jobs as domestic workers are exposed to multiple discrimination. these workers are often in poor and irregular conditions, are more likely to be victims of ill-treatment, irregular pay, subject to violence or sexual abuse, and do not dare to contact the authorities to ask for protection and claim their rights for fear of being sent back to their country of origin and/or punishment by their employers. this is the reason why i am voting in favour. i support the aim of the convention to provide for the legal recognition of domestic work as a professional activity, extending the rights to all domestic workers, in order to prevent violations and abuses and to define a legal framework in which it is ensured that work cannot be prosecuted outside this regulatory framework.
in writing. - domestic workers are often penalized for the informal nature of their work. the fact that they escape the formal structures of economic activity means that they often see their rights as forced labourers, a situation which must be combated in a determined way.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering that antimicrobial resistance (amr) is an animal health problem for the european livestock sector, in particular when treatment is unsuccessful; that guidelines on the prudent use of antibiotics have already been published in several member states, which has led to a decrease in the use of antimicrobials; that the livestock sector (production of milk, beef, pig and poultry meat, eggs, sheep milk, goat milk and meat) plays an important role in the european agricultural economy; and that the primary objective of farmers is to keep their animals healthy and productive through good agricultural practices (hygiene, proper feeding and rearing, responsible animal health management). i therefore call on the commission to develop a comprehensive multiannual action plan against amr in the framework of the eu animal health strategy (2011-2015).
in writing. − it is positive that there has been a decrease in the use of antibiotics, which has been helped by the publication in several member states of guidelines on the prudent use of antibiotics. any decision leading to the administration of antimicrobials, whether to humans or animals, should be carefully considered and take into account the potential threat of antimicrobial resistance. in fact, this resistance affects both humans and animals and can be transmitted from humans to animals and vice versa. while antimicrobial resistance in humans is often caused by inadequate doses of antibiotic drugs and improper treatment... however, it may also be caused by the transmission via animals of pathogenic bacteria carrying antimicrobial resistance genes, with serious consequences for public and animal health. we are therefore faced with a truly cross-cutting issue which requires a coordinated approach at community level, which should seek to ensure that antimicrobials can remain an effective tool in the fight against disease in both humans and animals, encourage prudent and responsible use and limit any recourse to them to what is strictly necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on antibiotic resistance because i believe that the commission and the member states must take measures to deal with the growing problem of antibiotic resistance in animals, given that the use of antibiotics in livestock feed also contributes to human antibiotic resistance.
in writing. - antibiotic resistance is a serious problem affecting the livestock industry, which is why i support the committee on agriculture in its concerns on this subject and in its proposals not only to reduce animal resistance to antibiotic treatment but also to encourage other ways of combating animal diseases, which do not necessarily involve the use of antibiotics. as regards the use of antimicrobials as growth promoters in animal feed, i would point out that this poses risks not only to animals, which become resistant to antibiotics, but also to populations, as products of animal origin enter the food chain, thereby affecting humans. it is therefore urgent to study the possibilities of a ban on the use of antimicrobials in animal feed, and to promote further measures to reduce antibiotic resistance and thereby ensure better animal health and food safety.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the fight against drug abuse in the european union (ep) is a welcome step towards the creation of a european drug policy. this has implications for human health, especially for workers handling these animals, but also for the economy, since the competitive future of community livestock farming is at stake. the ep has already debated this issue on more than one occasion and adopted some initiatives, such as the database which must be kept up to date, but it is time to move from words to deeds so that the regulations in force are no longer a dead letter. it is therefore essential that the new cap takes this issue into account and encourages good livestock practices. i therefore voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on agriculture and rural development, because it is a very balanced text whose proposals not only protect human health and defend animal welfare but also ensure the viability of businesses.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is an animal health problem for the european livestock sector, which includes milk, beef, pig and poultry meat, eggs, sheep milk and goat milk production. antimicrobials, if used correctly, are useful in helping farmers keep their animals healthy and productive. in humans, antimicrobial resistance is often caused by inadequate doses of antibiotic medicines. the transmission of pathogenic bacteria poses a particular threat to farmers and farm workers who are in daily contact with animals. this report helps to guide joint data collection actions in this field, analysing results and proposing solutions. a complete picture indicating when, where, how and on which animals antimicrobial medicinal products were actually used is desired, without creating new financial or administrative burdens for farmers or other animal owners, taking into account that practices and livestock intensity differ from one member state to another. we stress the importance of promoting good animal husbandry systems that reduce the need to prescribe antimicrobials and research into new antimicrobials. we welcome the content of the resolution, which is guided by the need for prudent and responsible use of these agents.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is an animal health problem for the european livestock sector, which includes milk, beef, pig and poultry meat, eggs, sheep milk and goat milk production. antimicrobials, if used correctly, are useful in helping farmers keep their animals healthy and productive. in humans, antimicrobial resistance is often caused by inadequate doses of antibiotic medicines, the transmission of which to pathogenic bacteria poses a particular threat to farmers and farm workers who are in daily contact with animals. this document helps to guide joint data collection actions in this field, analysing their results and proposing the respective solutions. thus, a complete picture is sought indicating when, where, how and on which animals antimicrobial medicinal products have actually been used, without creating new financial or administrative burdens for farmers or other animal owners, taking into account that practices and livestock intensity differ from one member state to another. it is also important to develop research on new antimicrobials as well as on other alternatives, stressing the importance of developing good animal husbandry systems that reduce the need to prescribe antimicrobials.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance (amr) is an animal health problem for the european livestock sector, in particular when treatment is unsuccessful. guidelines on the prudent use of antibiotics have already been published in several member states, which has led to a decrease in the use of antimicrobials. despite the positive results, much remains to be done in this area. hence the need for common european policies to eradicate this problem.
in writing. the resolution on antibiotic resistance comes at a time when antimicrobial resistance (amr) is a major animal health problem for the european livestock sector, which needs to be assured of the safety and effectiveness of antimicrobial treatments in the near future. the administration of antimicrobials to animals must take into account the potential threat of antimicrobial resistance in humans, often caused by inadequate doses of antibiotic medicines, incorrect treatment and the constant exposure of pathogenic organisms to antimicrobials in hospitals. i voted in favour of the report because the transmission of pathogenic bacteria carrying antimicrobial resistance genes poses a particular threat to humans through ingestion and/or through daily contact with animals. i believe that the emphasis on research is essential, contributing to the development of antimicrobials as an effective tool in the fight against diseases in both humans and animals, but that their use should be limited to what is strictly necessary.
in writing. - livestock play a vital role in the european economy. antimicrobials are often used to ensure the health of animals. the problem that can be posed is the development of antimicrobial resistance, which both animals and humans can develop, with reflexes that can be serious for human health. it is therefore essential that appropriate strategies are adopted to guard against such risks.
in writing. - i support this report because culture can be a crucial element for international relations by contributing to development, inclusion, democracy and conflict prevention and should therefore be included in the evolution of the european external action service.
in writing. - i consider the cultural dimension to be important in the context of european policies aimed at greater european cohesion. i commend all cultural programmes which aim to create a european identity through shared values and mutual understanding. i believe in the power that certain cultural initiatives can have in relations within the union as well as in diplomatic relations with third countries. the cultural elements of the various countries can be used as bridges for peaceful cooperation for stability.
in writing. - the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has led to the creation of the european external action service (eeas), which should include a coordinated and coherent strategy for cultural diplomacy. this report, in which i am briefly reviewing my position, deals with this important question. in fact, many of the proposals in this report, such as the promotion of youth exchange programmes and closer links with civil society organisations in third countries, are proposals which i myself supported and which were approved by the plenary in my report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. the report also stresses the importance of respecting the preservation/promotion of the linguistic/cultural wealth of each member state, the importance of the dissemination of european cultural values as a means of promoting fundamental rights, democracy and good governance, and finally the importance of the existence of a cultural attaché in each of the eu's external representations.
in writing. - in addition to being an economic power, the european union is also a cultural power whose influence extends far beyond its borders. the fact that several states have traditional historical relations with several european states strengthens europe's capacity to penetrate other cultures and to make itself understood in other parts of the world. it is never too late to stress the importance of the language factor as a vehicle for maintaining and deepening these direct contacts. i regret that, despite all the declarations of intent, the european union still does not understand the extent to which it should promote the teaching of european languages with particular communicative abilities in its institutions. on the contrary, the eu has opted for an inward-looking language policy. i wish i could turn that trend around. the cultural dimension cannot be overlooked in the foreign policy that the union is planning to develop, but must be seen as an asset, not always tangible but particularly important in a world increasingly sensitive to the soft power of states and international organizations. the european external action service will have an important role to play in this respect. i hope you're up to the challenge.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by marietje schaake, mep, deals with the cultural dimensions of the european union's (eu) external action. although it may seem a little strange to talk about culture, a non-essential good, when many european citizens are confronted daily with difficulties in obtaining the goods essential to their survival, we cannot sit idly by and think that, in addition to being fundamental in improving our quality of life, culture can and should be an opportunity for economic development and job creation for young people, and, of course, a factor of union and cohesion between peoples. the eu must be a community of cultural values where diversity is an asset and a factor of unity and cohesion, or, as the rapporteur says, an instrument of peace and global stability. it is therefore urgent to review the absence of a foreign policy in the cultural field. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree with its proposals and i hope that culture will help to find solutions to the crisis and will be an asset to the well-being of european citizens.
in writing. - this report confirms the current approach to culture in the european union: an instrumental view of culture, considering it to be at the service of foreign policy, through the concept of cultural diplomacy. in other words, culture is seen as a kind of vanguard for promoting and disseminating the interests of the european union and its member states in the world (point 22 of the report) and look how far this vision goes for promoting international trade (point 23 of the report). how often is this not synonymous with policies and practices that nullify or disrespect the identity and cultures of each country? the report also underlies a fallacy, which is repeatedly mentioned in the eu's discourse on culture: the existence of a unique european identity and culture, based on values such as freedom, democracy, tolerance and solidarity. culture, like all historical phenomena, is not made up of any homogeneous and common identity. on the contrary, it is an expression of antagonisms, conflicts and contexts of cultural domination. european culture is indebted, as we know, to many cultures in various parts of the world (such as those of the peoples subject to european colonialism). we are faced with a report which distorts and exploits the notion of culture.
in writing. - this report confirms the current approach to culture in the european union: an instrumental view of culture, considering it to be at the service of foreign policy, through the concept of cultural diplomacy. in other words, culture is seen as a kind of vanguard for promoting and disseminating the interests of the european union and its member states in the world and for promoting international trade. how often is this not synonymous with policies and practices that nullify or disrespect the identity and cultures of each country? the report also underlies a fallacy which is repeatedly mentioned in the eu's discourse on culture: the existence of a unique european identity and culture, based on values such as freedom, democracy, tolerance and solidarity. culture, like all historical phenomena, is not made up of any homogeneous and common identity. on the contrary, it is an expression of antagonisms, conflicts and contexts of cultural domination. european culture is indebted, as we know, to many cultures in various parts of the world (such as those of the peoples subject to european colonialism). the european union cannot put cultural diversity in question or distort and exploit the notion of culture.
in writing. - europe is a community of freedom, responsibility and democratic values. there is an interconnection between culture, identity, values and the eu's global position. european interests are served when cultural aspects are strategically conceived through cooperation and partnership in cultural programmes, and when cultural aspects are an integral part of economic, foreign and security policies, as well as development policies. through the sharing of literature, films, music and heritage, doors of understanding are opened and bridges are built between peoples. european identity in all its diversity, as well as european values, is expressed through these cultural expressions. the role that culture has and should have in the eu's external actions should be explored and strengthened in the development of the eeas. the integration of culture into other policies can promote mutual understanding, peaceful cooperation and stability, and can also provide economic benefits.
in writing. − this report deals with the cultural dimensions of the eu's external actions. i agree with the rapporteur that we need a common strategy for the cultural dimension. it's not about more investment, it's about better investment. the promotion of culture is the promotion of democracy. the proposed coordination could help to ensure a more efficient use of resources, especially at a time of budget cuts, especially in the cultural sectors. the existing european network of national cultural institutes should be an important partner for the sector. the members of this network have a long experience not only in field work but also in organising cultural activities with due distance from governments, which is crucial in this sector. in addition to coordination, there is cultural diplomacy at member state level. however, there are many third countries which seek to address themselves specifically to the european union and not just to the individual member states. to this end, only a common strategy can prevent the existing fragmentation which prevents the full and efficient use of resources and budgets dedicated to culture. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - culture plays a very important role in the context of the european union, a space that is meant to be united in diversity. the upstream side emphasises its undeniable integrating dimension, providing the existence of common places, that is, points where people from different cultural backgrounds meet in a common representation. it is no coincidence that the explanatory statement of the report opens with a curious quote: culturally speaking, rock-and-roll was a decisive element in opening up communist societies and bringing them closer to a world of freedom (andras simonyi). the undeniable economic benefits of investing in the dissemination of european culture are also highlighted. the aim is to promote and protect european values on a global level and to ensure that their core values are respected at all levels (e.g. freedom of expression on the internet). reasons which are the basis of my vote in favour.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering that a community dynamic is needed to stimulate the cultural and creative industries, which must therefore develop innovative economic models and access new legal offers of online services. it is therefore imperative to create a genuine single market for online content and services, to take specific measures to strengthen the role of the cultural and creative industries as catalysts for innovation and structural change, to bring together actors at regional, national and european level and to create new products and services that generate growth and jobs. in europe, the cultural sector plays a crucial role and attracts citizens, businesses and investment, valuing europe as a dynamic and stimulating place in which to live and work. it is clear that a vibrant and growing cultural sector is essential to europe's success as a creative, knowledge-based economy. the cultural sector also attracts skilled and creative people. it is now recognised that ccis are also an important driver of economic and social innovation in many other sectors.
in writing. - i welcome the interest shown in the potential of the cultural and creative industries. i believe in the positive impact that its development can have both economically (in terms of job creation and contribution to gdp) and socially (in the form of social and cultural integration of citizens). i therefore welcome the support for the creative sector, because i believe that this is the right way to achieve lasting and sustainable growth in the european economy in the face of the global situation we are facing today. innovation, structural cohesion and the creation of new products and services must be a priority in the design of any european policy.
in writing. − over the past two decades, the growth of cultural and creative industries has been exponential in terms of job creation and contribution to member states' gdp. it is for this reason, and also because of the extremely favourable moment in which we find ourselves, that it is important to explore and deepen the potential of these industries. it is therefore necessary to exploit the potential of the digital age, to implement a community dynamic and to stimulate the cultural sector by equipping these industries with innovative economic models. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur and support her in calling on the commission to produce a more ambitious green paper that would lead to the emergence of a genuine internal market, stimulate job creation and ensure greater social cohesion.
in writing. − this report, by marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, mep, looks at how the european union (eu) can harness the potential of the creative industries. this is a debate launched by the european commission's green paper at a time when the digital age is invading our lives and globalisation is becoming a challenge for the creative cultural industries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe in the potential of these creative industries and their promising future. however, if they are not to be overtaken by their international partners, they must make a rapid and vigorous effort to use new technologies (in particular information technologies) and factors of development and innovation. the eu should also support and encourage artistic creation and the mobility of cultural professionals so that it becomes increasingly universal and global.
in writing. - a community dynamic is needed to stimulate the cultural and creative industries, which must develop innovative business models and access new legal offers of online services. it is therefore imperative to create a genuine single market for online content and services, to take specific measures to strengthen the role of the cultural and creative industries as catalysts for innovation and structural change, to bring together actors at regional, national and european level and to create new products and services that generate growth and jobs. with the development of cultural and creative industries, we are contributing to sustainable economic development and job creation.
in writing. − this report on realising the potential of the cultural and creative industries is based on the european commission's green paper on the same subject and deserves my vote in favour as it is the official recognition of the economic and social importance of this sector. within the european union, and since the 1990s, the growth of cultural and creative industries (ccis) has been exponential in terms of job creation and contribution to gdp. coordinating and exploiting synergies in this growing sector can be crucial for the eu's economic development. the cultural and creative industries have a very high potential to become one of the engines of growth in the eu.
in writing. - the contribution of the cultural and creative industries is multifaceted. on the one hand, its intrinsic value in recreating cultural patterns and contributing to the construction of a common european identity. but on the other hand, it is an economic activity which creates jobs and products in circulation, i.e. it is also a source of wealth in an economic sense. however, there must be incentives for this kind of activity, such as the recognition of economic exploitation rights for these products, fully protecting the position of the creators. it is also a commitment which will make it possible to affirm (and differentiate) the added value that the community area is capable of offering. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission's green paper on realising the potential of cultural and creative industries aims to contribute to economic growth in the european union and to job creation in its member states. in the report adopted today, the european parliament advocates a genuine european strategy in this sector, through the creation of new spaces for experimentation, innovation and entrepreneurship, support for mobility and the promotion of access to finance and new financing instruments, and greater involvement of regional and local authorities. the rapporteur proposes the creation of pilot projects under the erasmus and erasmus young entrepreneurs programmes and the creation of a european-level platform to promote the exchange of experience. initiatives of great interest to craft production at regional and local level also include the development of a network of good practice for regional and local authorities and the implementation of financing advisory services to enable smes in the sector to obtain better information on the production and distribution of cultural and creative goods and services.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, expressing the same conviction as the rapporteur that the award of the title of european capital of culture to a city which was the scene of such tragic events during the 20th century would represent an important step towards overcoming the european divisions of the past and promoting the new europe.
in writing. − those who have followed with horror the events that have taken place in the martyr city of sarajevo during the war in bosnia and which have damaged its buildings, cannot but rejoice at the designation of this city as european capital of culture 2014. i hope that this event will not forget what happened, but will help europeans to have more pleasant memories of sarajevo and will help to bring the different ethnic groups closer together in their own country. i hope that the sarajevo capital of culture programme celebrates life, the human capacity to survive and rebuild, and signifies for all of us the extent to which the human spirit can cultivate and transmit the good and the beautiful, even after experiencing the deepest suffering.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on the european union's action in the field of asylum and immigration policy; the european capital of culture community initiative was set up to highlight europe's cultural richness and diversity, sharing it and promoting mutual understanding between europeans. sarajevo, the martyr city where world war i began in 1914, was to be destroyed during the siege of 1992-96. today, it has globally recognized brand images such as the violinist of sarajevo who, dressed in black and amidst the war wreckage, wanders the streets seeking to alleviate the suffering of a martyred people who could not leave the city. despite the adversities, this city has retained its cultural spirit. i think it is good and right that sarajevo should be the european capital of culture.
in writing. − i express my support for the european parliament's call on the council to designate sarajevo as european capital of culture in 2014. i agree with the resolution that the award of the title of european capital of culture to a city which has been the scene of such tragic events in the course of the 20th century would be an important step towards overcoming the european divisions of the past and promoting the new europe.
in writing. − although the decision establishing a community action to support the european capital of culture 2007-2019 currently covers only the eu member states, the truth is that on several occasions cities from third countries have been given the opportunity to win the title of european capital of culture. in this respect, and in view of the special place that sarajevo occupies in european history and culture, i believe that the award of the title of european capital of culture 2014 is justified, not least because of its symbolic value.
on behalf of the s&d group. the conclusions of the darusman report on behalf of the united nations point to the massacre of tens of thousands of civilians, war crimes and crimes against humanity and other egregious violations of humanitarian law committed by both the ltte forces and the sri lankan government. the continuation of an independent investigation and the prosecution of those responsible is not a political choice but an obligation under international law. the government-created conciliation commission does not meet basic requirements for independence. the international community, in particular the european union and the un security council, must therefore declare its unconditional support for the report's recommendations and urgently move forward with the establishment of an independent international mechanism to monitor the government's actions, ensure that the crimes committed by both sides are investigated and that justice is brought to the people of sri lanka.
the process of replacing the director-general of the imf is inseparable from the difficulties and contradictions facing the capitalist system today, in the face of its deepening crisis. this change in one of the institutions at the top of the system is inseparable from the dispute between different factions of big capital in which contradictions between the great powers emerge. it is also inseparable from the unresolved question of the reform of the monetary system and, with it, from the monetary war over the dollar's hegemony on the world stage. the consequences of this war, as we shall see in the european union, are being borne by the workers and peoples of the periphery. without at any time shirking the heavy responsibilities of social democracy and its longstanding commitment to neo-liberalism, this process is also inseparable from the confrontation between those who are surrendering to the evidence of the need for some debt restructuring in the euro zone and those who are forcing a flight forward to new forms of institutionalised intervention of an openly colonial character. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take them up.
we are here in a debate which is avoiding the essential issues, that is, avoiding this serious problem of international capitalism, this serious problem of financial markets controlling our economies, trying to impose their rules on their own countries, continuing to deepen inequalities, discrimination, attacks on workers' rights, on essential public services, contributing to the increase of poverty and social exclusion, not only at international level, in the least developed countries, but also here in the european union and in many of our member states. and so what was needed was for the european commission to take a firm stand to change this situation to finally tax havens, to control the financial markets, to end the worsening of inequalities and exploitation.
on behalf of the ppe group. other i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report and on the way he has conducted the proceedings. the current framework programme is of strategic importance for competitiveness and employability in the european area. the mid-term review of the current framework programme, more than 50% of which is still to be financed, is therefore important if the latter is to make an effective contribution to the recovery of the european economy during the second part of its life. as key recommendations for the review, i would highlight the simplification of access to funds, the adaptation of thematic priorities and the adaptation of participation rules to new challenges. simplifying access to research funding will make rules and processes simpler, clearer and more transparent. therefore, the recommendations of the simplification report which do not require the revision of the financial regulation should be included in the 7th framework programme. i congratulate the commission on the measures already taken. secondly, i stress the need for greater emphasis on thematic areas crucial to the future of europe, such as energy security, the environment and health. thirdly, adapting the rules of participation to the new challenges should allow, for example, for a greater participation of smes and young researchers in research projects. finally, i welcome the guidelines for the next framework programme. i would particularly stress the recommendation to substantially increase the budget devoted to science and innovation in the next eu financial framework. only then will we be able to make europe more competitive and more prosperous.
i would like to thank mr audy for his work and for the excellent cooperation he has had with all of us in all the groups and for the openness he has shown throughout this process. i think that the evaluation of a framework programme of the scale of the seventh framework programme is absolutely fundamental. it is never too much to insist on issues such as transparency, simplification, redistribution, which are essential and are evident in this report and in what has been the position of parliament. i think that research and innovation are fundamental contributions if we want to think about a development model that is fairer, more redistributive and more sustainable, and that is why we cannot let go of some dimensions. as many have already been mentioned, i refer to those that are often forgotten: firstly, the evaluation has shown us, and we must not forget it, that there is still too much concentration in the distribution of research funds. some countries and some research centres and units and large industries are able to make much more easily available research funds than others. we can't make a deal with this model. we must ensure that the new member states and the countries of the south, which happen to be those most in need of access to this funding at the moment, are more involved. secondly, i think that the participation of the actual participants and civil society organisations should also be extended. small and medium-sized enterprises remain a very important challenge. thirdly, a note on the precariousness of the research work: we cannot have quality research or research of excellence if we continue to allow researchers in some european countries to be held hostage to working conditions that are not worthy of the name. but above all, i want to thank you for the work that has been done. i think this is a very important step by parliament.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr audy on his excellent report. the mid-term evaluation, although late, highlighted the critical aspects of the seventh programme: its excessive bureaucracy, the lack of interest from industry, the number and complexity of the new instruments, the slow pace of disbursements. there is also a greater risk of large transfers of funds from the current framework programme to large programmes with questionable added value. but it also highlighted positive aspects such as greater international coordination and cooperation between scientific groups on joint projects, some success stories, including the european research council, and a greater gender balance. there are priorities to be developed: firstly, simplification and secondly, the promotion of scientific excellence, not just in some countries but throughout europe, a stronger link between the framework programme and innovation and with instruments aimed at small and mediumsized enterprises and entrepreneurship, of which the most successful is the eurostar programme, which should be extended.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the trade barriers that exist in the world. two years after they started in may 2009, there are indications that they may be completed as early as this year. given the progress of the negotiations, it is therefore appropriate to obtain public information from the european commission on a number of the most relevant points of these negotiations. the text of the question adopted in my committee is known and, to save you the trouble of reading it, allow me, madam president, to read it as if it were reproduced. as we know, since the treaty of lisbon this parliament has had the right to be informed of all the steps of the negotiation of international agreements, which obviously includes international trade agreements which, moreover, are the exclusive competence of our parliament and therefore where parliamentary scrutiny is more justified. it should be said that the commissioner for trade, karel de gucht, and the directorate-general for trade have not failed to inform the parliamentary committee i chair in this and other cases. it is important, however, to share with the whole of this parliament and with the public information on the most important issues involved, given the progress of the negotiations in this case, including some very sensitive issues for this parliament and for european public opinion, such as the issue of tar sands, the famous oil sands and the canadian challenge in the world trade organisation to the european ban on seal products. that is why we think that our oral question and the development it may have is particularly important. it remains to inform the house that this oral question is accompanied, as usual, by a resolution on the same subject which will be voted on next wednesday. both initiatives bear witness to the high importance which the committee on international trade and, in our view, parliament too should attach to this issue.
madam president, we are looking at one more piece of the european union's trade policy edifice. a building that is growing before our eyes, with consequences that affect the different member states profoundly but differently. the agreements which give concrete expression to this policy are based fundamentally on free trade, the aims and effects of which are well illustrated by the rhetoric associated with it of offensive interests, as if it were a war. these agreements are increasingly lacking in democratic legitimacy, since they are negotiated almost always in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens, seeking to conceal their economic, social and environmental impacts, and avoiding informed debate and clarification. and so it is, once again. with the negotiations said to be well advanced and expected to be concluded as late as 2011, their full sectoral and country-specific impacts are yet to be discussed. the content of the directive is not new: the opening up of markets, the liberalisation of services, including public services, which are increasingly commodified at the mercy of multinationals, with the added difficulties imposed on the states in the exercise of their social role in these areas. the consequences are also well known: domination of markets by some, the targeting of weaker production systems and increased pretexts for attacks on rights and living and working conditions.
madam president, indifferent to the economic and social devastation caused by imf-led structural adjustments in countries like greece, the gentlemen of this european union are deepening their offensive and are now launching into portugal with the same recipe and with unbridled colonial arrogance. in return for a loan of €78 billion, it is prepared to hand over companies and national resources, cut salaries and pensions in a country where the minimum wage is less than €500, close down public services, raise the prices of essential goods and services and pay out, in interest only, €30 billion, about 40% of the loan amount. more than two thirds of this interest goes to the european union itself: this is the meaning of the so-called european solidarity. persistence in this direction will inevitably lead to an intensification of the social struggle which has been raging throughout europe and also in portugal. we are here and will be here to support and encourage it, certain that it will be the one that will bring about change and will assert the alternative that is increasingly necessary and urgent in this europe.
madam president, after all the statements made on the occasion of the european year against poverty, the european commission remains totally indifferent to the worsening of poverty, especially child poverty, unemployment, the increase in the number of millions of poor workers because of precarious and poorly paid work. but it is no longer limited to neoliberal orientations, with all the serious consequences in the countries with the weakest economies, where it was imperative to deepen public policies to support public services, create jobs with rights and eradicate poverty. in memoranda such as the one the troika of the imf, the european central bank and the european commission made with portuguese governments, it demanded anti-social policies, including the amendment of the law on dismissals, privatisations and attacks on public and universal social security that can only lead to social regression, condemning workers and the people to unemployment, poverty, underdevelopment, extreme dependence, turning portugal into a mere protectorate of the powers of the european union. all this in return for a loan which the portuguese have to pay at very high rates to feed the profits of international financial capitalism, even though it is already known that such measures solve nothing, as the example of greece shows. so here is the protest against these measures, a protest that will continue in portugal and also here in the european union.
mr president, reality has already fully demonstrated that credit rating agencies are not credible, but their actions continue to be very damaging, both to the economies of some countries and to the sovereign debt itself, which is now affecting countries with weaker economies. and that is why this intervention by the rating agencies, which have lost all credibility, but are still highly damaging, needs to be properly controlled. and a control which is not limited to transparency rules but goes deeper and is part of a complete control of the international financial system, which also imposes a tax on tax havens, which properly regulates the financial sector with taxes on the movements of speculative capital and which prevents financial capital from continuing... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, knowing that the ilo's 2010 world report on social security states that more than 50% of workers do not have social protection, it is easy to conclude that in most cases there is no social responsibility of companies. in the meantime, the european commission continues to negotiate free trade agreements which, in general, only serve the interests of economic and financial groups and do not give due attention to labour rights, do not promote the right to collective bargaining and free association, and do not take steps to effectively eliminate discrimination in employment, occupation, forced or precarious and poorly paid work, including child labour. that is why this report, which is a denunciation of these situations, is still far from what is desirable, and we hope that the commission will go further and that tomorrow it will also go into this in depth... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the infectious outbreak in germany presents us with one of the most difficult public health crisis management exercises in memory, and one which the commission and, above all, the german state have not been handling in the best way. we are facing a huge human tragedy which includes the loss of many lives and which puts many thousands more at risk and we are facing a crisis of confidence in the consumption of basic foodstuffs, with economic and social consequences that are difficult to predict. society expects a rapid and enlightening response from national and community authorities to the causes of this crisis, as well as an effective response. but we must also minimize the harmful consequences that are affecting another world of innocent victims, the fruit and vegetable growers - as has already been said here today - who have been blamed in a hasty and unfair way and who have seen their income lost and their future seriously threatened. preventive action is also urgently needed to prevent similar situations from recurring. one of the aspects of the action is to strengthen the effectiveness of the monitoring and control mechanisms for antibiotics in animals, as i mentioned here in the debate less than a month ago. another important area of action is the design of the new cap, which we are reforming. it is essential that the incentives and the incentives should be geared in future towards quality based on sustainable production methods, as the socialist and democratic group has been insisting on.
mr president, in the face of the swirling of conflicting news about the origin of this outbreak, it is worthwhile to weave some considerations. the first to point out that, more than 15 days after the first cases were reported and more than 1 month after the first contaminations, the european rapid alert and response systems have not yet been able to determine the true source of contamination, with all the resulting damage already mentioned. the second is to remind you that this is a serious, but not isolated, case of food insecurity in the european union. i am reminded of the recent debate we had here on the problem of dioxins. these cases are inseparable from a cap which promotes intensive export-oriented production models and which makes it impossible, rather than promoting as it should, to produce and consume locally, which would ensure much more effective traceability and hence better quality and food safety. finally, european producers, and not just those in the geographical area of the outbreak, must be compensated for the losses they are suffering. this should be done with community measures because the agricultural policy is common and not just national ones, given the obvious inequalities that this would generate.
in writing. i would like to begin by expressing my condolences to the families of the victims. the eu and its member states must immediately focus their efforts on finding the source of the contamination, to stop the outbreak and the deaths and to restore consumer confidence in the food chain, because without that confidence it is not possible to put an end to the despair of our farmers either. this requires joint work between the european food safety authorities and the health ministries of the member states, which has been delayed by germany's disastrous handling of this crisis. in this situation the eu cannot neglect its farmers. it must create a mechanism to compensate rapidly for the enormous negative impacts of this crisis, which is already threatening the survival of many farms. consumer protection is a top priority, but we must correct the procedures. it is essential to define who is issuing the alert, when it is issued and how it is issued, in order to avoid the information chaos we have been witnessing, with disastrous consequences, without even identifying the source of the problem. we also need clear action from bodies with a pan-european character.
in writing. - the proposed candidate has above all political experience, and also audit and financial experience, although the latter may not be as strong as desirable. i am voting for this candidate, but i think that we need to continue to reflect on the kind of qualifications that members of the court of auditors should have.
in writing. - i wish mr wessberg every success in the important task for which he is appointed, and i am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with all the dedication and competence he can muster.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. mr h. g. wessberg (sv) submitted his cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, and provided sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties there in a competent and independent manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr wessberg as a member of the court of auditors. all the data presented for this option, including the replies to the questionnaire for candidates for members of the court of auditors annexed to this report, justified my decision by indicating that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the need for full independence of the members of the court of auditors are met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr wessberg.
in writing. - given that the charges date back to 2004, which means before the defamation accused entered the european parliament as a member, i vote in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of ágnes hankiss.
in writing. − at the sitting of 6 september 2010, the president informed, pursuant to rule 6 (2), that he had received a letter from the central district court of budapest on 6 july 2010 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ágnes hankiss and forwarded the request, pursuant to the same rule, to the committee on legal affairs. the report of the committee on legal affairs, which was unanimously adopted, concluded that the case in question does not fall within the scope of the political activities of mrs ágnes hankiss as a member of parliament. i refer to a statement made in 2004, long before i was elected to parliament. the rapporteur also found no evidence of fumus persecutionis, i.e. a sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the case was brought with the intention of causing political damage to the member. for these reasons i support the proposal of the committee on legal affairs and i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of agnes hankiss.
in writing. - i am in favour of this report, since it is consistent with the commission's aim of simplifying existing legislation in order to create and make better and clearer legislation for businessmen, particularly as regards customs formalities carried out by textile importers.
in writing. - i support the repeal of the council regulation on proof of origin for certain textile products, as i believe that in order to create a clearer legislative framework for businesses, efforts are needed to simplify the legislation in force. i should add, however, that i think it is important to maintain alternative mechanisms for monitoring imports of these products into the eu in order to prevent the increase in imports from causing market disturbances.
in writing. - i am naturally in favour of measures to reduce bureaucracy and simplify administration. when it comes to solving anachronisms, the more enthusiastic i get! that's the case. the existence of unnecessary administrative burdens, such as the proof of origin for certain textile products, in cases where there are no quantitative restrictions on the importation of these products into the european area or where there is a need to present an import authorization, only adds to the obstacles to the flow of international trade. that said, and although not directly related to this measure, i would also like to stress the importance of maintaining the status quo with regard to the current wto rules, in particular with regard to the global textiles and clothing (t&c) market and very specifically to changes to the rules for importing t&c products into the european union at a time of severe economic contraction in several member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european commission's proposal contributes to reducing administrative burdens and additional costs for businesses by strengthening the standardisation of import rules for certain textile products.
in writing. - the repeal of council regulation no 1541/98 is intended to relieve importers of the burden of providing proof of origin for certain products. since products can be freely imported, it appears that proof of origin is unnecessary, but doubts remain about the goodness of this facilitating measure. i cannot but stress the need to ensure the quality of products sold in the european union and to guarantee the safety of their users. more than knowing the origin of textile products from outside the union, it is essential to ensure european standards and not to allow raw materials and processed products to enter and be sold in the union without having minimum conditions that allow it. i also believe that it is more important than the type of products used in the manufacture of textiles to assess whether they are produced in compliance with the rules of competition and with respect for the dignity and rights of workers, since there are more and more cases of violation of both, with unacceptable consequences for the owners and for the viability of the european textile sector, particularly the portuguese sector, which is forced to compete with those who systematically violate these rules and rights.
in writing. - the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation repealing council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 as regards proof of origin for certain textile products and the conditions for admissibility of proof, and amending council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products from third countries. the amendments now introduced in the regulatory framework make it possible to improve trade policy measures, especially following the increase in imports from the people's republic of china, by introducing control instruments for imports of textile products from third countries. i voted in favour of this report because, by significantly improving consumer information, it will allow all citizens of the member states to make an informed and responsible choice and to opt for products made in the eu.
in writing. the commission proposal, which the report approves, aims to simplify the formalities for importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the community. to this end, it is proposed to repeal the conditions for accepting proofs of origin for certain textiles and related products originating in third countries. the range of products covered is extensive: silk; wool, cotton; other vegetable textile fibres; synthetic or artificial filaments; felt and false fabrics; carpets and other floor coverings; special fabrics, lace, tapestries, embroidery; knitted or crocheted fabrics; clothing and accessories; among many others. the consequences of the liberalization of international trade in textiles, with the elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports and special safeguard provisions, are well known in countries such as portugal. this proposal, in line with previous measures, is intended to make life even easier for the major european importers their main beneficiaries, who thus have access to low-cost raw materials and final products, at the expense of national industries and thousands of jobs. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the information they need to ensure that the information provided is accurate and that the information is not misused.
in writing. - this report endorses the european commission's proposal to simplify the formalities for importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the european union. it is therefore proposed to repeal the conditions for collecting proofs of origin for certain textiles and related products originating in third countries. the range of products covered is extensive, including: silk; wool, cotton; other vegetable textile fibres; synthetic or artificial filament; felt and false fabrics; carpets and other floor coverings; special fabrics, lace, tapestries, embroidery; knitted or crocheted fabrics; clothing and clothing accessories. the consequences of the liberalization of international trade in textiles, with the elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports and special safeguard provisions, are well known in countries such as portugal. this proposal, in line with previous measures, is intended to make life even easier for the major european importers - their main beneficiaries - who have access to low-cost raw materials and final products, at the expense of national industries and thousands of jobs. a longstanding demand of the sector and consumers, which has already been the subject of resolutions in this parliament (the last one in 2010) is postponed: the indication of the country of origin and the provision of information on the origin of various goods, which we regret.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'produced in' in the labelling of foodstuffs. the community economy needs to be strengthened by improving the competitiveness of eu industry in the world economy. we can only have fair competition if it works with clear rules for producers, exporters and importers, taking account of common social and environmental considerations. the aim of this proposal is to codify the rules already in force for the indications or marks which enable the lot to which a foodstuff belongs to be identified. it is, however, regrettable that it is not yet possible to follow the product's journey from its origin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation repealing council regulation (ec) no 1541/98 on proof of origin for certain textile products falling within section xi of the combined nomenclature and released for free circulation in the community and on the conditions for the admissibility of such proof, and amending council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. it did so with reservations, but because it was overall positive and because it was in line with the european union's strategic commitment to simplify existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative framework for businesses, in particular with a view to simplifying the formalities followed by importers of certain textile products released for free circulation in the community and also with a view to reinforcing the uniformity of import rules by aligning the rules on the import of textiles with those for other industrial goods, which should also improve the overall coherence of the legal framework in this area.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 1541/98 was concerned with the requirements for proof of origin for textile products originating in third countries subject to quantitative restrictions on imports. in view of the changes that have occurred since then, in particular as a result of the wto agreement on textiles and clothing of 2005, it seems justified to remove that first proof of origin of the products and therefore supported the repeal of that regulation. the overall aim is to reduce the burden on products entering the european area without sacrificing the interests of purchasers at the last moment. to this end, it is important to maintain alternative mechanisms for controlling imports of such products into the eu.
in writing. − in 1998, the european union introduced the obligation for importing companies to provide proof of origin for products listed in section xi of the combined nomenclature, referred to in annex 1 to council regulation (eec) no 3030/93, which have been produced in third countries. it should be noted that in 2005 the quantitative restrictions on imports of textile and clothing products from wto member countries were removed and at the end of 2008 the provisions on the same type of products from the prc also expired. i therefore vote in favour of this report because i believe that it is a good thing to define a clearer and simpler legislative framework for european companies importing textile and footwear products from third countries, where quantitative restrictions still exist because they are not members of the wto. i also believe that import authorisations effectively help to monitor the import of this type of product in an efficient manner, effectively safeguarding its impact on the economic fabric of the eu and, consequently, of each member state.
in writing. - i am in favour of croatia's participation in the work of the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, since the centre is open to the participation of any third country and especially in view of the fact that croatia is a transit route for illicit drugs which are smuggled on their way from the producing countries to the consuming countries, and i therefore consider it essential that croatia should be involved as soon as possible.
in writing. - drugs are one of the biggest scourges facing our society today. it is a socially and culturally complex and dynamic problem, which is constantly changing, presenting new contours, the use of new substances and new groups of consumers. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda), set up in 1993, has as its main tasks the collection of data on drugs and drug addiction and the production and publication of objective, reliable and comparable information at european level. this information is very important because it provides a basis for analysing drug demand and ways of reducing it, as well as phenomena associated with the drug market in general. croatia is a transit route for illicit drugs, which are smuggled on their way from producing countries to consuming countries. it is therefore very important for europe that croatia provides objective information on drugs, drug addiction and their consequences, while also being able to obtain information on best practice. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the important work it has been carrying out to reduce the quantity of drugs and drugrelated phenomena in europe. i confirm my agreement to croatia's participation in the activities of the observatory, because, given the integration of this country into a transit route for illicit drugs due to its strategic geographical position, i believe that the adoption of the european programme will lead to the improvement of health and social peace, not only at european level but also worldwide.
in writing. − the emcdda plays a key role in collecting data on drugs and drug addiction, contributing to the availability of objective, reliable and comparable information at european level which serves as a basis for analysing the level of drug demand, ways of reducing it and, in general, the phenomena associated with the drug market. third countries which share the interests of the union and the member states in the objectives and work of the emcdda may participate in the work of the emcdda. croatia submitted its request in 2005 and the negotiations were successfully concluded in 2009. the approval of this agreement is important as croatia is one of the main routes for illicit drug trafficking into the eu and it is therefore essential that this country is associated with the work of the emcdda as soon as possible, especially as croatia's accession to the eu is planned for the end of 2012 or the beginning of 2013. croatia should have a link to the european reitox network and share data with the emcdda, in full compliance with the data protection rules provided for in union law as well as in national legislation.
in writing. − the phenomenon of drug addiction and in particular of drug markets is a global threat and a formidable obstacle, difficult to overcome because of its constant movement and mutation. the nature of the work carried out by the emcdda is of particular relevance in this field, as it allows the creation of an international knowledge and information base from different states. this information is crucial for analysing and developing strategies to reduce and combat the existence of drug markets and drug dependence. croatia's desire to join the eu in this important issue has been voiced since 2005 and it is now urgent that it be made a reality by being integrated into the work of the emcdda, based in lisbon. the proposal in the report, as regards croatia's compliance with its obligations to the emcdda and the eu, is very positive. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that this link between croatia and the eu will contribute not only to a more effective fight against the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction, but also to building greater solidarity between the eu and croatia, a candidate country for accession and a full member in the short term... at least i hope so!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'croatia's participation in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction' because i think it is positive, given the republic of croatia's accession to the european union which is due to take place shortly, but above all because illicit drug use and trafficking are global phenomena with very serious socioeconomic and health repercussions.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) aims to collect data on drug use and drug dependence in order to analyse trends in drug use among the population and to study the promotion of policies and actions aimed at reducing drug use. given that the emcdda is open to the participation of non-eu member states and that in 2005 the republic of croatia applied for participation; and given that croatia is on the route of illicit drug transit between producer and consumer countries and that significant seizures, especially of cocaine, are made in this state, i consider the participation of the republic of croatia in the emcdda an important step. i therefore vote in favour of the decision on the signing, on behalf of the union, of an agreement to this effect between the european union and the republic of croatia.
in writing. − this recommendation, drawn up by debora serracchiani and based on the proposal for a council decision on the signing of an agreement between the european union (eu) and the republic of croatia, concerns the interest expressed by the republic of croatia in joining the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. whereas croatia is one of the main drug trafficking routes to the eu and where significant seizures of illicit hallucinogenic products (cannabis, heroin, cocaine, ecstasy and amphetamines) have been made; whereas the croatian government has adopted a national programme for the prevention of drug use among young people; whereas the republic of croatia has applied for eu membership, which is expected to take place in 2013, i support the signing of the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia to enable the republic of croatia to join the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, based in lisbon.
in writing. − the global situation regarding the production, trafficking and consumption of illicit drugs is worrying. the 2009 report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction confirms negative developments in relation to drugs such as cocaine, heroin and new synthetic drugs, with persisting and even worsening trends in high levels of use. this development will be influenced by a number of factors, not least the deepening crisis of capitalism and its social effects in a number of countries. this report proposes to support the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on its participation in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. it is suggested, however, that these efforts need to be considerably improved, given that croatia remains one of the main eu drug trafficking routes. it would be important that this accession of croatia to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which we support, could contribute to improving the fight against drug trafficking.
in writing. - in adopting this report, the european parliament gave its support to the agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on its participation in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. although, as the rapporteur points out, croatia is expected to join the european union in the second half of 2012 or early 2013, its participation in the observatory can be accepted, given that the country is making efforts in terms of investigating and prosecuting drug-related crime. but efforts need to be considerably improved, as croatia remains one of the eu's main drug trafficking routes. we know that the development of the world situation in relation to the production, trafficking and consumption of illicit drugs is worrying. according to the 2009 report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, there are negative developments, with cocaine, heroin and new synthetic drugs being the main targets, with persisting high levels of use and even a trend towards worsening. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug trafficking.
in writing. - the scourge of drugs continues to be a concern throughout the eu. the more countries that contribute to its fight, the greater the chance of success we have. croatia's participation in the work of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is therefore welcome. however, croatia needs to step up its fight against drug trafficking in its country, as it remains one of the main trafficking routes in europe.
in writing. - i welcome the participation of the republic of croatia in the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda). the emcdda's main task is to collect data on drugs and drug addiction in order to produce and publish objective, reliable and comparable information at european level. the information is intended to provide a basis for analysing drug demand and ways of reducing it, and in general the phenomena associated with the drug market. in fact, croatia, like some other european countries, is a transit route for illicit drugs, which are smuggled on their way from the producing countries to the consuming countries. the majority of large-scale and major cocaine seizures in croatia are related to maritime transport. with the adoption of this report, the republic of croatia will participate in the observatory's work programme and share data with the emcdda, in compliance with the data protection requirements provided for in union and national law. the agreement provides for a financial contribution to the union to cover the costs of its participation.
in writing. − the republic of croatia has applied to take part in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda), set up in 1993 and based in lisbon. in fact, this is a state particularly interested in combating drug trafficking: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in combating drug addiction and drug trafficking, the republic of croatia has already developed measures in this field at the domestic level, both in terms of prevention of drug use and in support of the investigation of drug-related crimes. there is thus a mutual interest in the accession of the republic of croatia to the emcdda. however, as it is not yet a member state, it is necessary to define its status (its rights of participation and the duties which it should assume) in the context of the observatory.
in writing. − i agree with the extension of the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the professional crossborder road transport of euro banknotes and coins between euro area member states to the territory of member states which are in the process of joining the euro area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it necessary that the scope of this regulation be extended to the territory of a member state which is about to adopt the euro. this decision will contribute to a smoother transition to the euro by responding adequately to the increased need for cross-border transport of banknotes and coins during the period leading up to the changeover.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the territory of the member states that are in the process of joining the euro area.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, taking into account that satellite navigation systems must ensure interoperability between the different systems. the commission, in turn, must ensure the correct levels of funding. i should also like to point out that of the 15 measures included in the commission's action plan, 9 are to be implemented immediately.
in writing. - i agree with the policy on the implementation of global satellite navigation systems in transport, which i believe will contribute to more efficient transport and logistics management and monitoring systems. in view of the high value of the global market in this sector, which will continue to grow in the coming years, i would also stress the importance of creating the conditions for european industry to be able to compete.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the implementation of the proposed global navigation satellite system (gnss) action plan will contribute to the establishment of a more efficient transport network through safer, greener and more economical means of transport.
in writing. − global navigation systems are part of the daily life of the transport sector and will become increasingly important in a world which is increasingly networked and in which exchange and the speed of communications are part of its essence. the advantage and commercial value of such systems is clear, and it is understandable that it is in europe's interest to have as many of these solutions as possible and to have them operate independently of third parties. the action plan presented by the commission presents valid proposals for the future of the community's approach to these issues and allows the subject to be relaunched in a more solid and consistent way. the way in which these schemes will be financed requires particular rigour in order to avoid waste as well as imagination in order to attract support and partners. i hope that the union will still be able to develop global autonomous navigation systems and exploit their full potential in order to promote the strengthening of its economy, the increase in jobs and the safety of transport.
in writing. − this report, by sílvia-adriana ţicău, focuses on the application of satellite navigation systems in transport in the european union (eu), following the publication by the commission on 14 june 2010 of the action plan on global navigation satellite system (gnss) applications. since 2000, the year gps became available, this sector has grown exponentially (€124 billion in 2008), and is expected to have a global market value of around €230 billion by 2025. the eu could not afford to fall behind in this cutting-edge technology of satellite navigation, so it developed a european geostationary navigation system called egnos (european geostationary navigation overlay service), the precursor to the galileo system, which is expected to be operational by 2013 with a level of accuracy ten times that of gps. in the near future, it is expected to be accurate to within 18 inches. i welcome the rapporteur and welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, which will allow the eu to increase its market share and provide the industry with competitive conditions in a strategic and fast-growing market.
in writing. - global navigation satellite systems (gnss) can have important and very useful applications in the activity of all types of transport, and can, among other things, make them safer, greener and more economical. gnss can also play a vital role in supporting and promoting the use of so-called intelligent transport systems. the rapporteur touches on some of these aspects. but like other technologies, the practical results of gnss applications are inseparable from the economic and social context in which they are produced, and from the purposes and objectives they serve. in general and in this sector in particular. it is therefore not surprising that it is proposed that this system should also support, for example, the establishment of the single european sky - the aspect of the report from which we have distanced ourselves. we agree on a global satellite navigation system which can support the development, modernisation and diversification of public services, particularly in the field of transport. however, gnss must be analysed in all the many dimensions in which it can be applied. in doing so, we question the limits of the potential uses of these programmes in the context of the competition between the eu and the us in terms of the functionalities and efficiency of these systems.
in writing. - global navigation satellite systems can have important and very useful applications in the activity of all types of transport, and can, among other things, make them safer, greener and more economical. such systems can also play a vital role in supporting and promoting the use of so-called intelligent transport systems. but, like other technologies, the practical results of applications are inseparable from the economic and social context in which they are produced, and from the aims and objectives they serve. it is therefore not surprising that it is proposed that this system should also support, for example, the establishment of the single european sky - the aspect of the report from which we have distanced ourselves. we agree on a global satellite navigation system which can support the development, modernisation and diversification of public services, particularly in the field of transport. the system must, however, be analysed in all the many ways in which it can be applied. in doing so, we question the limits of the potential uses of these programmes in the context of the competition between the eu and the us in terms of the functionalities and efficiency of these systems.
in writing. − this is the time for the commission to coordinate the implementation of the action plan in order to avoid duplication at member state level and to ensure overall progress in the multiplicity of areas of action of the european union covered by gnss applications. the egnos system should cover the whole of the european union and, as a matter of priority, be extended to the regions of southern, eastern and south-eastern europe. for egnos to be fully effective from a transport point of view, its scope must cover the whole of the union and even beyond, to our closest neighbours. in the field of civil aviation, member states shall promote the development and use of egnos-based landing procedures; therefore, the certification of egnos-based services and procedures for civil aviation is a priority. this is a strategic requirement for the creation of a true single european sky. it is also clear that egnos and gnss systems can, in general, make an important contribution to environmental and safety objectives and to better traffic flow in the road transport sector through their provision in road toll systems. we have to find ways to finance this system.
in writing. − on 14 june 2010, the commission published its action plan on global navigation satellite system applications, containing 24 specific recommendations for further action. this sector as a whole has experienced a huge expansion since the first availability of gps services from us satellite facilities in 2000. in fact, the estimated value of the global market was eur 124 billion in 2008 and is projected to reach eur 230 billion by 2025. of this, 20% comes from intelligent transport systems and 5% from security applications, including transport security applications. the aim of this project is to provide secure signals for civilian use and to ensure that european industry at all levels is able to compete in this strategic and growing market. the current european market share of 25% is below expectations. egnos is compatible with the gps system, but will offer more possibilities when galileo becomes operational in 2013, with a level of accuracy now ten times that of gps. these facts, together with the immediate and important implications for the transport sector, which has included advanced driver assistance systems, among other things, justify my vote in favour.
in writing. − following the action plan on global navigation satellite system (gnss) applications published by the commission on 14 june 2010 with a view to enhancing the complementary european geostationary navigation system egnos, efforts should be made to extend the navigation system to the whole of europe. in fact, it is a system whose expansion can offer great economic and security advantages. however, this requires greater investment in innovation and development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is an area which has, moreover, seen enormous development. it is estimated, for example, that in the short term it will be possible to achieve a degree of precision of geographical location of up to 45 centimetres. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − gnss currently has implications for all eu policies, and its development and implementation will have a catalytic effect on the achievement of eu 2020 and the creation of a strategic and competitive european industry. in transport, gnss applications account for 20% of all applications in terms of volume and 44% in terms of value. an industry which represents a growing world market in which europe must take the lead and achieve its autonomy. gnss applications and services in the field of transport have a variety of implications for the safety, efficiency, economic and environmental costs of all modes of transport. another element i think is important to stress is that, in order to ensure a fair development, the egnos coverage must cover all member states and enable interoperability and compatibility with third countries, so as to make this market competitive and dynamic. finally, i support the rapporteur's idea that the new mff should ensure adequate levels of funding for both research and development and gnss application, and that mechanisms should be set up to facilitate access to it by smes for the development and marketing of gnss applications.
in writing. - i support the report in question, as a framework is needed to assess individual airline agreements, although meps need to follow the negotiations rather than being left behind, subject to the choice of accepting or rejecting the final text.
in writing. - i believe that the regulatory convergence brought about by certain international air agreements will be achieved by creating a level playing field, which is not only beneficial for industry in the countries concerned, but also an opportunity to standardise and strengthen social and environmental standards. the services provided to passengers and freight transport operators will also be considerably improved, which would otherwise not be as visible as through bilateral agreements.
in writing. − the conclusion of global air transport agreements with neighbouring countries or major global partners is of particular importance in terms of market access and regulatory convergence, promoting a level playing field, the same level of social and environmental standards, etc., which brings benefits to all parties: passengers, freight transport operators and airlines. it is also important to harmonise existing bilateral agreements with community legislation at the level of horizontal agreements in order to provide greater legal certainty, increase transparency and create additional benefits in terms of simplification, while ensuring that all eu airlines can enjoy the same rights. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has acquired a more important role in this area, with the approval of the ep becoming mandatory for the conclusion of these international agreements. i therefore support this report which seeks to define some general principles and a coherent set of rules for the evaluation of these agreements, stressing the importance of the ep being kept informed and able to follow the process from the outset and given the opportunity to express its concerns and priorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'international air agreements under the lisbon treaty' because it stresses the importance of parliament being 'immediately and fully informed at all stages' of the process of negotiating agreements between the union and third countries or international organisations.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has given new powers to the european parliament to approve international agreements. among these, international air agreements are of particular importance, given the multiple security and coordination needs they entail. assessing its goodness requires rigorous criteria of scrutiny and a monitoring of the terms of the deal. i hope that the commission and parliament will cooperate actively in order to continually improve the quality and the accuracy of such agreements.
in writing. - this report by brian simpson deals with international airline agreements within the framework of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). since 1 december 2009, with the entry into force of the tfeu, the european parliament (ep) has seen its powers strengthened, taking on co-decision responsibilities on many matters, including air services. in this connection, the committee on transport and tourism has presented this report, which is extremely positive and timely, and which sets out some general principles with which i fully agree. the ep is thus able to follow the whole process from the outset, thanks to the information it receives from the commission, particularly through the directorate-general for mobility and transport, and to make a conscious assessment of the agreements it is called upon to vote on, whether they are horizontal, global or security agreements.
in writing. − the international air agreements provided for by the lisbon treaty are supranational agreements which aim to supersede existing bilateral agreements concluded by member states. our position against this principle has been reiterated in the successive agreements on which parliament has been speaking, and has been duly accompanied by criticism of the overall meaning of these agreements, which aim, without exception, at the liberalisation and privatisation of the sector. the rapporteur (significantly from the socialist group) says that air transport agreements with neighbouring countries or important global partners can bring substantial benefits to passengers, freight transport operators and airlines. however, the reality in this and other sectors where liberalisation has advanced (see the case of rail transport) belies these promises of benefits. if there are indeed winners in the process of monopolistic concentration in the air transport sector - which inevitably follows liberalisation and free competition - it is not the passengers, not the workers, not many of the so-called flag carriers, but the large european groups in the sector. these are reasons for our vote against.
in writing. - this report refers to the international air agreements provided for in the lisbon treaty. these are supranational agreements aimed at harmonising and superimposing existing bilateral agreements concluded by the member states. the rapporteur notes that air transport agreements with neighbouring countries or important global partners can provide substantial benefits to passengers, freight transport operators and airlines through market access. however, the reality is that the practice of these agreements at eu level has already shown us that such promises of benefits are nothing but a lie both for workers and for passengers. most of these agreements have as their implicit objective the opening up of the market and the liberalisation of the sector, arguing for free competition or avoiding distortions of competition, the benefits that the most powerful companies can derive from it and the false environmental solution to reducing carbon emissions, namely the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading system.
in writing. - the adoption of the lisbon treaty has increased the number of cases where parliament's approval is required for the conclusion of international agreements. air service agreements now belong to this category because they cover an area to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. the committee on transport and tourism has therefore decided to propose this own-initiative report with the aim of laying down some general principles on how air transport agreements should be assessed in terms of substance and the procedures that the committee can adopt to keep itself properly informed throughout the negotiations and to have the opportunity to express its priorities well before it is faced with the final decision of approval or rejection. the new parliamentary powers provided for in the lisbon treaty create a new responsibility to ensure that parliament and its committee responsible are duly informed about the preparation of the agreements which they will later be called upon to approve. this obligation is matched by a responsibility to monitor the conduct of the negotiations more closely. these assumptions must therefore be taken into account in the future negotiations for international agreements.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon, in force after 1 december 2009, increased the number of cases where parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements. air service agreements now belong to this category because they cover an area to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. previously, only parliament had to be consulted on such agreements. in view of this amendment, the committee on transport and tourism has decided to draw up an own-initiative report which aims to define some general principles on how air transport agreements should be assessed by the european parliament in terms of their substance before it is confronted with the final decision and can only approve or reject them. the new parliamentary powers provided for in the lisbon treaty create a new responsibility to ensure that parliament and its committee responsible are duly informed about the preparation of the agreements which they will later be called upon to approve. this obligation is matched by a responsibility to monitor the conduct of the negotiations more closely. the possibilities identified in this report, which i vote for, can be understood as a list of elements to be adopted according to the particular circumstances of each agreement.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has increased the european parliament's powers to conclude international agreements, and the process of redefining its statute requires new forms of legal framework for its action. this is the spirit in which this report emerges. as the european parliament is now (also) competent for air service agreements, it is important to ensure that it is provided with means of information throughout the negotiation process. in fact, its intervention cannot be limited to the final stage of the procedure, when its action is limited to approving or rejecting the final solution, without it having at its disposal a range of relevant indicators for taking a weighted position. the need to involve the european parliament in the process is well-founded, but attention must also be drawn, albeit in general terms, to such matters as the terms under which information is provided and the times at which it should be made available.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has institutionalised new areas where the european parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements. air transport agreements fall into this category, as they form part of the ordinary legislative procedure. this requires that the ep be regularly informed, so that a concerted assessment of the whole negotiating process can be made, and that it can at the same time express its views and priorities. this report provides guidance on how air agreements should be analysed in terms of content and procedures to be adopted. three types of agreements are presented, covering different objectives, namely horizontal agreements, global agreements and security agreements. i am voting in favour of this agreement because i think it is essential that the position taken by the european commission, and underlined in this report, should state that the ep should regularly monitor the whole process by sharing information and that, at least every three years, the commission should present an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of existing agreements. the approval of the agreements must be achieved through a fruitful interinstitutional relationship, which allows the european institutions to participate actively in it.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the new elements introduced by the council, in particular as regards earmarking, more transparency and initiatives for fleet renewal, vehicle capacity and the possibilities for more efficient variation of infrastructure. eurovignette iii will allow member states to tax road users for external costs (pollution, air, noise) so that polluters-payers are introduced into road transport. in anticipation of the white paper, the legislation now envisaged obliges member states and the commission to take the next steps towards a more sustainable and interoperable transport system, a harmonised charging system and more internalisation of external costs.
in writing. - the imposition of a tax on heavy vehicles is a measure which penalises the peripheral countries of the european union, such as greece, italy, spain and portugal, which in turn are largely the most affected by the context of the financial crisis (which has become a budgetary and economic crisis in these countries). in view of the above, i am voting against the document presented, because i consider it unfair that these taxes should be levied unequally, since the peripheral countries would receive the bulk of the revenue, to the benefit of the countries of central europe.
in writing. - i voted against the report on 'taxation of heavy goods vehicles' because i believe that the application of infrastructure charges could have a negative impact on the european economy, particularly in peripheral countries. given that various taxes and charges, including excise duties on fuel, are already applied in the road transport sector, and given the current economic situation, i think that the internalisation of costs in the sector should be considered in order to merit a wider consensus among the various actors covered by these measures.
in writing. − the revision of the eurovignette directive requires heavy goods vehicles travelling on european motorways to be subject to the polluter pays principle, allowing member states to include the costs of noise and air pollution in national tolls. the average additional cost should be between three and four cents per vehicle/kilometre. this principle, at a time when the european economy is weak and competitiveness is more necessary than ever, can serve to make the transport of goods even more expensive, especially for the peripheral countries, for which the price of the good is added to the transport costs, which are not only already forced to internalize the costs of fuel but will now have to do the same with the additional costs at the toll, thus losing competitiveness. without wanting to minimize the environmental issue, i do not think that now is the time to burden european companies with another tax.
in writing. - the imposition of a tax on heavy vehicles is a measure which penalises the peripheral countries of the european union and at the same time constitutes an additional revenue in the countries of central europe. the text resulting from the trilogue is less negative for portugal than the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism (tran), as it reduces the rate of variation to 175%, and the hourly peak of taxation to five hours, extending the exemption of the least polluting vehicles for another 1 year (now for 4 years). however, the imposition of this tax will remain a reality and will bring an increase in the existing costs for the peripheral countries of the european union. these new provisions of the euro-vignette directive will allow member states to include in the tolls charged to heavy goods vehicles, in addition to the cost of using the infrastructure, an amount corresponding to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic. this average additional cost should be three to four cents per vehicle/kilometre. the least polluting vehicles will be exempt. i voted against the proposal for this report because i believe that the peripheral member states are being harmed.
in writing. - the heavy reliance on road transport is a real problem (in portugal, the reliance on this mode of transport is even higher than the eu average). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the oil crisis. it is therefore essential to promote the diversification of freight transport modes, particularly by focusing heavily on rail transport. unfortunately, this commitment has not only not been made, but in some countries - as in the case of portugal - what we have seen is the divestment of this type of transport. the trend towards greater divestment is the result of liberalization and privatization. the report in question, in addressing some of these issues, is simply seeking to impose a new tax on heavy goods vehicles (in addition to those already in existence, some of which have recently been increased in portugal), which is doubtful as to its effectiveness in achieving the stated objectives and represents an additional burden whose effects, in the face of the current economic and social crisis, may lead to liquidation situations for many companies.
in writing. - we know that the heavy reliance on road transport is a real problem (in portugal, the reliance on this mode of transport is even higher than the eu average). this situation must be changed, both for reasons of environmental and public health, due to the high levels of pollution associated with it, and also for reasons of an energy nature, linked to the progressive shortage of oil and the increased difficulty of access to this raw material. it is therefore essential to promote the diversification of freight transport modes, particularly by focusing heavily on rail transport. however, this commitment has not only not been made, but in some countries - as in the case of portugal - what we have seen is a disinvestment in this type of transport, which tends to be accentuated following liberalization and privatization processes. this report addresses some of these issues, but then confines itself to seeking to impose a new tax on heavy goods vehicles (to be added to those already in existence) - some recently increased in portugal, such as tolls on scuts - whose effectiveness is doubtful as regards the effective pursuit of the stated objectives, and which represents an additional burden, the effects of which, in the face of the current economic and social crisis, may generate liquidation situations for many companies.
in writing. - this directive provides that member states are to include in the tolls charged to heavy goods vehicles, in addition to the cost of using the infrastructure, an amount corresponding to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic. i believe that the polluter pays principle is not a solution which simply leaves the decision to the market. authorizing and legitimizing pollution if it's economically viable for the company is not a path to sustainability. i believe that the european union's priority must be to impose stricter measures on the pollution caused by heavy road transport and to make a decisive move towards rail freight transport. this directive, without solving the problem of pollution, aggravates inequality between member states by placing a greater burden on peripheral countries such as portugal, which are exporters but not transit countries. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. - environmental concerns can never be called into question. however, they cannot be dissociated from economic questions, especially at a time of crisis which we are still experiencing and which continues to plague the countries of southern europe, and in particular my country, portugal. i cannot therefore agree with the adoption of the polluter-pays principle, because this situation will greatly harm the industrialists in the freight transport sector in the peripheral countries, particularly portugal, to the detriment of the wealthier countries of central and northern europe.
in writing. - this report presents a pragmatic approach to waste no more time with the adoption of the so-called eurovignette iii directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain infrastructures. the aim is to achieve the best possible compromise within parliament and with the council. the proposed amendments are the result of consultations with the political groups. in this context, i voted in favour of this report, which will allow member states - if they so wish - to also charge road users some (limited) external costs in order to introduce the polluter-pays principle in road transport. it will also give member states additional opportunities to make their national road charging systems more efficient, which means a better tool for managing transport demand. these objectives were confirmed by the council's position. the proposal to reserve revenue for external costs and infrastructure to be used in particular for sustainable transport and transeuropean networks should be emphasised. an effective revenue reserve (increasing accountability and transparency) will not only increase public acceptance but also ensure the reduction of the external costs of road transport.
in writing. - this directive provides that member states are to include in the tolls charged to heavy goods vehicles, in addition to the cost of using the infrastructure, an amount corresponding to the cost of noise and air pollution caused by traffic. i believe that the polluter pays principle is not a solution which simply leaves the decision to the market. authorizing and legitimizing pollution if it's economically viable for the company is not a path to sustainability. i believe that the european union's priority must be to impose stricter measures on the pollution caused by heavy road transport and to make a decisive move towards rail freight transport. this directive, without solving the problem of pollution, aggravates inequality between member states by placing a greater burden on peripheral countries such as portugal, which are exporters but not transit countries. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. - the proposal to revise the eurovignette directive in question aims to introduce the polluter-pays principle in road transport, allowing member states to include the costs of noise and air pollution in national tolls, which translates into the imposition of an additional charge on heavy vehicles. this is a penalising measure for the peripheral countries of the european union, which is particularly serious in the context of the current financial crisis. for these reasons i voted against this report.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the eurovignette is a measure which penalizes the peripheral countries of the european union and at the same time constitutes an additional revenue in the countries of central europe at a time when those countries are going through a period of economic and financial difficulties. the revision of the directive in line with the european parliament's position will have a considerable negative impact on the competitiveness and development of the economy of several member states, such as portugal. although i recognize that the final text adopted today in strasbourg is less negative than the previous text agreed in committee, the imposition of this tax will remain a reality and will bring an increase in the existing costs for the peripheral countries of the european union. for the reasons stated, in the national interest and as a member of the transport committee in the european parliament, i voted against the document presented in plenary.
in writing. - the report is approved, taking into account that, with the necessary negotiations, the rapporteur had the opportunity to ensure the inclusion of a revision clause for the regulation in question for the possible introduction, following an implementation report by the commission, of new models covering a variety of environmental goods. this review should take place before the year 2013. in addition, the possibility of estimates has been introduced, which makes it possible to fill in gaps in case member states do not provide data in time.
in writing. - for sustainable development, it is essential to make sound environmental policy decisions based on reliable data. i therefore support and welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the economic accounts for the environment of the european union, as i believe it will help to evaluate policies, in particular by providing data on the environmental impact of economic activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the economic accounts of the european union for the environment, as i considered it necessary to have indicators relating to sustainable development and the well-being of citizens, in addition to gdp, which would also allow the evaluation of european environmental policies.
in writing. the report also calls for the commission to take action to ensure that the environmental impact of the eu's activities is taken into account in the environmental assessment of the eu's policies. this is an important idea and is, in fact, the only way to obtain concrete data on the real impact of environmental policies. while economic growth cannot ignore the environment, environmental policies cannot ignore (or turn their backs on) economic activities and the competitiveness of european firms and industries. it is always in this light that i see the problem of sustainable development, which necessarily implies economic growth with respect for the environment, two sides of the same coin that europe, especially at the present time, cannot (and must not) forget.
in writing. − on 28 september 2009, the commission presented a communication entitled gdp and beyond: measuring progress in a changing world, proposing measures to create a database on eu environmental accounts with a view to better public debate and better informed decision-making. the commission should, by the end of 2013, present a report answering questions such as: what is the state of our forests? how much are our fisheries resources depleted? to this end, we need a credible and up-to-date statistical base to be created by this regulation. the legal framework created by this proposal will enable the eu to assess environmental accounts in the light of sustainable development. it's never been more important to pay attention to the environmental/economic bipolarity. i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to enabling more comprehensive and informed political decisions to be taken, it meets the maxim that we do not own this world, we have inherited it from our grandchildren. it is essential that we leave a healthy environment for future generations.
in writing. − the development and provision of indicators and descriptive statistics to monitor the evolution of economic and environmental factors and their possible interactions is undoubtedly a useful tool to support strategic planning, the definition of public policies and the delineation of sustainable development pathways. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the information obtained can provide an important basis for environmental policy decisions. the proposal for a regulation only provides for the collection and compilation of data in the field of emissions into the atmosphere, environmental taxes by economic activity and the accounts of material flows to the economy. other data could be acquired in other areas. the rapporteur also suggests that pilot studies should be carried out to ascertain its practical applicability. however, account should be taken of the necessary adaptation of national statistical systems and their costs. the commission seems to take this into account in its proposal, albeit only partially, by providing for derogations for member states when large-scale adaptations are necessary.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation under discussion only provides for the collection and compilation of data in the field of emissions into the atmosphere, environmental taxes per economic activity and material flow accounts for the economy. other data could be acquired in other areas. the rapporteur also suggests that pilot studies should be carried out to ascertain its practical applicability. but the development and provision of indicators and descriptive statistics to monitor the evolution of economic and environmental factors and possible interactions between them is undoubtedly a useful tool to support strategic planning, policy-making and the development of sustainable development pathways. the data obtained can and should contribute to policy evaluation by allowing the environmental impact of economic activities to be measured. the information obtained can provide an important basis for environmental policy decisions. however, account should be taken of the necessary adaptation of national statistical systems and their costs. the commission seems to take this into account in its proposal, albeit only partially, by providing for derogations for member states when large-scale adaptations are necessary.
in writing. − i believe that a better range of statistics on the environmental consequences of member states' and eu policies, as well as on the accounting of certain taxes that underpin environmental policies, is needed. it is regrettable that statistics and taxes are indiscriminately included in environmental accounting. the aim of this assimilation is the implementation of the climate market and its pollution stock exchange rights. the delegation of powers to the commission is also moving in that direction. i voted in favour, because i support the idea of statistical instruments being needed, even if i reject the policies they serve.
in writing. − it is very important that environmental economic accounts contribute to policy evaluation by providing data on the environmental impact of economic activities. this information can provide an important basis for environmental policy decisions. we must be able to define the object, the purpose and the contribution of the proposal in this regulation to the overall strategy of gdp and beyond. this regulation provides only for the collection and compilation of data in the field of emissions to air, environmental taxes per economic activity and material flow accounts for the economy. it is a first step towards the development of more complete economic accounts of the environment, since, according to information from the competent european and national statistical services, only data at european level are currently available for these areas. further progress is therefore needed to make environmental statistics more reliable and more frequent.
in writing. − in 2006, the european council invited the eu and its member states to extend national accounts to the main aspects of sustainable development, proposing measures to be taken in the short and medium term to develop global indicators that would provide a better public debate and help decision-making based on the economic impacts of the environmental measures to be implemented. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with this first step towards the development of more complete environmental economic accounts, since at present, according to the relevant european and national statistical services, only data at european level are available. other priority modules already under work should be identified in a work plan and for which corresponding data, in particular data on the environmental impact of economic activities, may also be submitted in the near future. recycling and waste prevention, air emissions and climate change, along with sustainable consumption and production, could be better monitored if quality data were available that combined the environment with the economy. this data can provide important support for decision-making on environmental measures.
in writing. - a sustainable development policy requires, in order to achieve the desired effects, that information is included in decision-making processes to enable sound solutions to be adopted. it is therefore necessary for the member states to compile a broad set of indicators which, in aggregate terms, provide a global picture of the community environment. this is the subject of the commission's proposal to the european parliament and the council, which is now before the european parliament. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, i would also like to know, mr president of the commission, whether the whole question of the regulation of financial markets, in particular the application of a tax on capital movements, capital gains, the end of tax havens, the end of derivative products and of rating agencies, has been postponed once again, given their total credibility at the moment and the lack of transparency, and finally the question of the problems that are here in the european union, with greece, portugal and ireland, where a process is being imposed which is aimed above all at imposing on workers and countries instruments and processes of worsening exploitation and worsening their economic decline, which in the short or medium term will contribute to greater poverty, unemployment and greater inequalities. do you not think that this is in contradiction with all the principles that have been enshrined, including the treaty itself?
madam president, the eu must keep up pressure on the government of sudan to withdraw troops from the border town of abyei. a solution to the abyei problem is needed urgently to prevent the escalation of armed conflict between sudan and south sudan. this conflict is jeopardising the peace process that should have followed the referendum of january 2011. the firing of shots by militia men at a un helicopter at the end of may was an outrageous and cowardly act; as outrageous as the call by the khartoum government for un peacekeepers to withdraw after 9 july. the un presence is more necessary than ever to help observe the parties and stabilise the region, thus preventing the conflict from expanding. ensuring a peaceful transition to independence in south sudan also requires that the fight against impunity remains at the top of the eu agenda for both countries and for their unhelpfully meddling neighbours. the eu should not be tempted to make any potentially ‘convenient deals’ with president al-bashir in exchange for forgetting that he and his henchmen must be brought before the international criminal court (icc) to answer for the war crimes and the crimes against humanity committed against the sudanese people in darfur.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, six short notes. the first is to strengthen schengen. the free movement of persons is one of the european union's greatest successes and achievements. schengen is one of the great pillars of the union. we are therefore among those who believe that it should not be weakened, but rather preserved and strengthened. i support the views expressed by commissioner malmström in this connection a short while ago. the five founding member states gave rise to the present 25 - 22 states in the union and three outside the union. the free movement of persons is thus guaranteed in a territory with almost 43 000 kilometres of external maritime borders, more than 7 700 kilometres of land borders, covering 25 countries, as i said, and 400 million citizens. second note: mutual trust. the abolition of internal border controls requires a high level of mutual trust between member states. there is a need for a rapid and adequate exchange of information through the schengen information system, good police cooperation and the existence of effective external border controls. the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and efficiency with which each member state carries out its controls at its external borders. when this is not done, the schengen area is weakened, the union's credibility is undermined and mutual trust is destroyed. third note: equal rules. there must also be trust in procedures, which must be clear and fair. the applicant countries must be able to implement and apply effectively and correctly all the schengen criteria, the same criteria that were required of all previous applicants for accession, no more and no less. fourth note: transparency. in the name of freedom, but also of security, greater transparency must be ensured. i regret that once again the council has not behaved in the best possible way towards the european parliament by refusing members of parliament access to the evaluation reports. the problem was only overcome thanks to the diligence of the romanian and bulgarian ambassadors who requested that these reports be declassified and sent to the european parliament, thus allowing members of this house to have access to the content of the final assessments, recommendations and conclusions. the council has unfortunately once again failed to respect this parliament. the same transparency is required for the outstanding problems identified which, although not constituting an obstacle to the full accession of the two countries to schengen, should be monitored by the evaluation committee in order to verify the follow-up given to these recommendations as well as any changes still in progress. the european parliament demands access to this information. the fifth point is european citizenship. how often do we invoke the value of european citizenship in our speeches? since their accession to the union in 2007, both bulgaria and romania had a legitimate expectation that their citizens would become full eu citizens and be able to enjoy the same rights as other eu citizens, including freedom of movement within the schengen area. it is therefore european citizenship that we are strengthening by extending the schengen area. sixth and final note: you did a good job. it is clear that both countries are to be congratulated on the effort they have made to meet all the requirements of schengen. this is clear from the evaluation reports and subsequent follow-up of the expert missions that carried out the evaluation and it is clear from the mission we carried out in bulgaria and romania, for which i thank the collaboration of our romanian colleagues marian-jean marinescu, ioan enciu, renate weber and our bulgarian colleagues andrey kovatchev and mariya nedelcheva. we are therefore in a position to welcome bulgaria and romania into the schengen area and i hope that the council will adopt the same position as soon as it receives our positive opinion.
the rapporteur. - during the debate a colleague said that allowing romania and bulgaria to enter would be a childish decision. i don't agree with that. i think that when we reach adulthood we appreciate rational arguments, and if we're well-educated adults, we appreciate rational judgments that are fair. and to be fair, we can't go around with double standards. what we have to ask is whether bulgaria and romania fulfil the conditions for joining schengen or not. and if they do, they should come in. it is legitimate that its citizens should be considered full-fledged european citizens. and the citizens of bulgaria and romania must not be held hostage to populist speeches. we know that everything is not going well with schengen. we are therefore advocating a new schengen evaluation system, so that we can identify problems, respond accordingly and take decisions if problems persist. but the debate on the new schengen evaluation system must not make the citizens of bulgaria and romania hostages to this legislative process either. they're different processes, each with its own rhythm. finally, mrs gyõri, thank you very much for the kind reference to portugal and the one-sis-for-all which has facilitated the entry of several countries, including your own, into the schengen area. i am very grateful to you for that kind reference and reminder. i would like you to take to the council the picture of this debate and, above all, as i hope, the picture of the vote we will be having tomorrow, which i believe will be very expressive, that the council will understand that when the assembly which represents the citizens of europe by such a large majority, as i hope, says yes to bulgaria and romania, i hope the council will do so in the shortest possible time.
for the gue/ngl group i have been listening to this debate and i shall therefore be speaking against the tide. and the first question is this: is a sound currency sustainable without a strong european budget? the answer, in my opinion, is no, it's not possible. and the sovereign debt crisis proves exactly that. it proves that if we had a strong budget today, there would have been no speculative attack on the sovereign debts of greece or portugal. and this is exactly what we have to answer to, and i think this is the main problem which mr garriga's report fails to address. this report lacks ambition. the possibility of a marginal increase of 5% in european budgets only seems too great in the light of the views of her majesty the queen of england. actually, the problem is something else. it is not possible to set priorities for growth and job creation with a european budget that is essentially frozen. it is not possible to meet the new obligations arising from the treaties with a budget that is essentially frozen. it is not possible to think that cohesion policy is enough, because it is not enough when europe returns to social divisions within its own territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, it is unacceptable that at this time of serious crisis in the eurozone, due to neo-liberal policies and the lack of solidarity and economic and social cohesion, there should be no call for a break and a change in the european union's policies and its financial resources. when we are experiencing an economic and social crisis, one of the greatest challenges is to find a new multiannual financial framework in which there is a significant increase in the community budget to support economic and social cohesion, accompanied by a reduction in the obligation of national co-financing, reducing it to a maximum of 10% of the project submitted, especially in the countries with the greatest financial difficulties, which focuses on investment, public services, support for production, the creation of jobs with rights, the eradication of poverty, social inequalities and all types of discrimination, including gender. the promotion of peace, cooperation and development aid, and a sharp reduction in military and foreign representation expenditure are also essential. we therefore consider that the report falls far short of what is needed for a better and fairer future for europe and its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done, which has resulted in a report that is a good start to the construction of the next multiannual financial framework and a challenge for the commission and the council. this is an ambitious report and at the same time a realistic one. i hope that all the institutions have taken the necessary steps to deal with the financial, economic and social crisis which is not going to let us down. one thing is clear to me: only a united, united europe with a strong, concerted and convergent economic governance will be able to successfully meet the political challenges ahead. we need more and better europe. we need to give priority to the community method over the intergovernmental method. we need to tighten the budget. the european union 2020 strategy is consensual, its priorities are clear and its objectives are measurable. it will be the guide to the next financial outlook. however, this strategy will only succeed if there is a budget that corresponds to its actions, to its objectives. in this respect, the amounts of the multiannual financial framework must be commensurate with the ambition, the commitment, of the european union 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is also based on the principle of solidarity. it is important that this cohesion be economic, social and territorial and that it involves the poorest regions. i therefore consider it essential that the funds for cohesion policy should at least be kept at the same level as the funds for the common agricultural policy. it is also important to move towards a multiannual financial framework whose revenue does not depend on more than 80% of national budgets.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. i welcome the fact that the priorities set out in this report are in line with the europe 2020 strategy and put growth at the heart of european policies. we need more and better europe. in this sense we must give priority to those areas which contribute most to competitiveness, such as scientific research, innovation and energy. there is therefore a need to substantially increase funding for science and innovation in order to promote scientific excellence across europe. it is also important to strengthen the european system of science funding in order to achieve the investment target of 3% of gdp. the new budget should also promote energy efficiency and support the construction of future infrastructure, in particular energy infrastructure, creating the conditions necessary for the competitiveness of european industry. the role of industry, and in particular of smes, needs to be strengthened, helping to strengthen european leadership in a globalised world.
in writing. let us look at the current multiannual financial framework. the enlargement of the eu to 12 new countries, generally with levels of development below the average of the 15 countries that formerly made up the eu, brought with it undeniable challenges and requirements for the implementation of the principle of economic and social cohesion. what we have seen, however, is the relative reduction of the structural funds from 0.42 to 0.37 per cent of community gni. that is, the moment they were most needed was when they were relatively diminished. the results are in sight: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of a new type of product. this is the mff which now serves as the reference for the discussion of the financial perspective 2013-2020 and it is proposed, in principle, to maintain it. the proposed 5% increase will not raise the community budget substantially above 1% of community gni. once again, the proclaimed principle of cohesion is called into question. the problem is aggravated by the fact that the available resources are now channelled to other purposes (which are now included in the treaties - militarism, external interventionism, among others) which further subordinate this principle.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account the positive results of the evaluations of both countries to verify whether they meet the requirements of the schengen acquis. as both romania and bulgaria are currently prepared to open borders, despite the fact that the bulgarian-greek border is very sensitive, it is necessary for bulgaria to take additional measures and for a common tripartite approach (bulgaria-greece-turkey) to be adopted.
in writing. - since the signing of the schengen agreement in 1985, the five founding states have been enlarged to 25, 22 of which are member states of the european union. schengen has made it possible to abolish internal border controls between the signatory states and to create a single external border where access controls to the schengen area are carried out. bulgaria and romania adopted the schengen acquis upon their accession to the european union in 2007. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the directive will also provide for the possibility of extending the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment. this is an important step forward for these countries and also a strengthening of european citizenship. i therefore support this report and congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. - having regard to the agreement reached by bulgaria and romania on the conditions for accession to the schengen area, i welcome the enlargement of the schengen area. however, i consider the additional measures and the solutions to the shortcomings identified to be important, particularly in relation to the phenomena of illegal immigration in bulgaria, which is due to its peripheral geographical position. the smooth functioning of the free movement of persons, goods, services and labour will depend on the soundness and harmonisation of external border policies, since only in this way can social peace and economic stability within the union be preserved.
in writing. the rapporteur, who has been following these matters for several legislatures, believes that although there are still outstanding issues which warrant regular monitoring, they do not constitute an obstacle to the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. given his experience in this field, i think i can safely subscribe to his assessment and his requirements for the security of the external borders. the decision to open the borders to these member states will improve freedom of movement and, in practical terms, will enable bulgarians and romanians to feel more integrated into a union of which they are a full part. i hope that the symbolism of the moment will also translate into more fluid trade between countries and more integrated management of immigration and security issues. the rapporteur warns of the sensitivity of the bulgaria-turkey-greece region in terms of illegal immigration. i agree with the need he points out for bulgaria to adopt additional measures, including a special plan including measures to be applied upon entry into the schengen area and a common approach (between greece, turkey and bulgaria) to deal with a possible sharp increase in migratory pressure.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr carlos coelho, deals with the draft council decision on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis in the republic of bulgaria and romania. on 14 june 1985, the schengen agreement was signed, which, by abolishing checks at the internal borders of the signatory countries and creating a common area, enabled the free movement of persons and goods throughout the european union (eu). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done in drawing up this report, despite the difficulties which the council has placed on access to some of the documentation considered essential for the preparation of this report.
in writing. − the verification that new member states fulfil the conditions necessary for the application of the schengen acquis in its entirety is a precondition for the adoption of the council decision abolishing internal border controls, after consulting the european parliament. in this case, the report considers that the conditions are in place for the abolition of border controls with bulgaria and romania. the decision to integrate these countries, which joined the eu in 2007, into the schengen area will have to be taken by the council, by unanimity of the governments of the schengen states already in the eu. the report mentions the need for additional measures to be taken at the bulgarian-greek-turkish border, one of the most sensitive in terms of illegal immigration. the schengen evaluation committee also called on bulgaria to take additional measures, fearing migration flows from turkey. the whole context of the pressure being exerted on these countries and the objectives of this pressure justify our abstention. we also believe that the same considerations that define our position on enlargement and the accession of new countries to the eu are equally valid for the application of all the schengen provisions to these or other countries.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that the conditions are in place for the abolition of border controls with these two countries, but wants the european parliament to be informed of the additional measures to be taken at the bulgarian-greek-turkish border, one of the most sensitive in terms of illegal immigration. verification that the new member states fulfil the conditions necessary for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis is a precondition for the adoption of a decision by the eu council of ministers to abolish internal border controls with these countries, after consulting the european parliament. but the schengen evaluation committee has called on bulgaria to adopt additional measures, including a special plan that includes measures to be applied upon entry into the schengen area, mainly because of fears of migratory flows from turkey. the decision to integrate these two countries, which joined the eu in 2007, into the schengen area will have to be taken by the council, with the unanimity of all the governments of the schengen states already in the area. the matter is due to be discussed at the justice and home affairs council on 9 and 10 june. however, in view of our position on the accession of these countries, we have maintained our abstention, reinforced by the continuing pressure on these countries.
in writing. − bulgaria and romania have been subject to an assessment of the proper application of all parts of the schengen acquis land, sea and air border control, police cooperation, visa issuance, connection to the schengen information system (sis) and data protection as a precondition for the adoption of a decision by the eu council of ministers to abolish internal border controls with these countries after consulting the european parliament. following the positive results of the evaluations and follow-up visits carried out by teams of experts, it can be concluded that although there are still some outstanding issues which may require regular reports and follow-up in the future, these do not constitute an obstacle to the full accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area. however, we cannot ignore the bulgaria-turkey-greece region, which is one of the most sensitive of the eu's external borders in terms of illegal immigration. the measures already taken need to be strengthened and we need to be prepared to deal with a possible sharp increase in migratory pressure, and bulgaria should adopt additional measures, including a special plan including measures to be applied upon entry into the schengen area.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague carlos coelho on the excellent work he has done in this report on the draft council decision on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis in the republic of bulgaria and romania. romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis with their accession to the european union in 2007. according to the report, the assessment of the fulfilment of the conditions for the application of the acquis in question (data protection, sis, air, land and maritime borders, police cooperation and visas) was carried out on the ground and progress in the implementation of the measures aimed at abolishing internal border controls with those member states was noted on the spot. the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who have followed this process believe that the outstanding issues, which will require regular reporting and follow-up in the future, do not constitute an obstacle to the full accession of these two member states to the schengen area. for these reasons, i support the decision to open the borders with regard to these member states, voting in favour of this report and welcoming the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the full implementation of the schengen agreement in bulgaria and romania certainly means the abolition of border controls for these countries too. at a time when some governments are daring to suggest the reintroduction of internal border controls, it is all the more important to show our support for the extension of what is today one of the best achievements of this european union. full application to these member states is also a matter of equality and non-discrimination within europe, because to exclude those two countries would be a very negative signal to their populations, who are very keen to join the area of free movement. for these reasons, it is important to give this step broad support.
in writing. − accession to the schengen acquis involves the need to comply with a number of evaluation procedures, and candidate countries must meet a number of conditions in order to be admitted to the area of free movement, an area which currently covers 25 countries and 400 million citizens. this report assesses the positions of bulgaria and romania, highlighting on the one hand the best practices followed by bulgaria in several activities and on the other hand the efforts made by romania in relation to the identified gaps. in conclusion, and without wishing to put a number of points to the test, the overall assessment of the behaviour of these two states is positive.
in writing. the schengen area was created in 1985 and now covers a territory with 42,673 km of external maritime borders and 7,721 km of land borders, covering 400 million citizens. the schengen agreement currently includes 25 member states with a common area of free movement of persons, through the abolition of systematic internal border controls and the creation of a single external border. common rules have been established for the full implementation of this agreement, in particular on checks at the external border, the common visa policy, police and judicial cooperation, and the schengen information system has been set up. this report concerns the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen acquis and concludes, through evaluation visits and a final report, that both countries are ready for full accession. however, there are still outstanding issues, in particular the need to establish a plan to deal with possible illegal migration pressure. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the member states concerned should inform parliament and the council within six months of the entry into force of this decision of the implementation of the additional measures and the development of the gaps identified.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's nuclear programme is implemented in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty on european union. a substantial transformation must take place in the international order in order to benefit from the realisation of the eu's challenges with concerted global action. i would also remind you that, in accordance with article 21 of the treaty, the eu is formally committed to effective multilateralism, with particular reference to the role of the un.
in writing. − the times in which we live make clear the need for coordination between the member states and the european union in the most varied situations and instances. this coordination is also of great importance within the framework of the united nations. i would even say that it is essential to ensure that european values and interests are defended and safeguarded in what is the most comprehensive and decisive international organisation. irrespective of future changes in the way the union is represented within it, in particular in the security council open debate , it is increasingly necessary for european countries to join forces in order to enhance, together with the union's external representatives, the collective capacity for intervention and influence. regular consultations between member states' ambassadors and eu ambassadors will be an important step in this direction. the union should, as such, contribute to improving the efficiency and transparency of the united nations and enhancing the sound management of its financial resources. the creation of a united nations parliamentary assembly within the united nations system is an interesting proposal which deserves study and debate.
in writing. this report by alexander graf lambsdorff is concerned with a proposal for a parliament recommendation to the council on the holding of the 66th session of the united nations general assembly. the transformation of the international order which is taking place in the world, with conflicts in various parts of the globe and the self-determination of many peoples who have been oppressed for decades, even centuries, makes the next session of the un general assembly of unprecedented importance. the ep, taking into account the provisions of articles 21 and 41 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, could not fail to use this session to make its views known on a number of issues, including the role of the eu in the united nations system, the eu and global governance, peace, security and justice, development, human rights and climate change. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposals, as well as with the need to promote a debate on the role of regional parliaments and assemblies in the un system and the creation of a united nations parliamentary assembly.
in writing. the report calls for the european union to be given a seat in the un general assembly and a permanent seat on the security council. this is the view that has been expressed in recent times by several voices, supported by the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty, in particular the conferral of legal personality on the eu. these are amendments whose legitimacy we have always contested. this demand - which subverts the spirit of the organization, an organization of states and not of supranational organizations - is not made with the aim of making the functioning of the un more democratic or of creating a new world order that is more just and peaceful. the eu's alliance with nato and the us to carry out war and aggression in countries like libya is there to demonstrate it. these are fundamental principles of the un charter, such as non-interference in the internal affairs of states, respect for their sovereignty and independence and recognition of their right to development, which the eu has been calling into question. sovereignty lies with the people. and the peoples of europe have not given it to this increasingly anti-social and anti-democratic eu.
in writing. - this report reiterates the unacceptable demand for a seat in the un general assembly and a permanent seat in the security council, arising from the undemocratic treaty of lisbon and the legal personality acquired by it. it is not the aim of making the functioning of both un bodies more democratic or of creating a new world order that is more just than the majority of the ep does. what contribution can an eu, allied with nato and the usa, make to the further democratization of the un and to peace and progress for mankind by promoting war, violations of international law and the un charter in libya? what contribution can the eu make to non-interference in the internal affairs of states, to respect for their sovereignty and independence and their right to development - rights enshrined in the un charter and international law - when, in partnership with the imf, it imposes an unprecedented programme of aggression against the workers and people of portugal and the usurpation of their resources? not one. sovereignty comes from the people. and the peoples of europe have not given sovereignty to an increasingly anti-social and anti-democratic eu.
in writing. - the eu must not forget its role as a leading player on the world stage in all areas. it must therefore strengthen its role in all multilateral organisations, particularly the un, where its role must be increasingly active following the launch of the european external action service (eeas). considering that global partnerships are key to the achievement of jointly defined global objectives, that the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid and an important partner of the united nations in its three pillars of intervention, including in crisis and post-crisis situations, and that member states' contributions represent 38% of the un regular budget, we conclude that a strong and stable eu-un partnership is fundamental to the work of the united nations and decisive for the eu's role as a global actor.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it follows the recommendations made to the council in view of the 66th session of the united nations general assembly. i am in favour of strengthening the role of the european union in the united nations. the european union is still too weak in the un bodies, as the rapporteur points out, given the important contributions of the eu itself and its member states. the council must make its position more forcefully heard within this body, ensuring greater coordination in the pursuit of the union's objectives within the united nations and fostering greater cohesion between the member states' positions. i support the rapporteur's call for the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the president of the european council to take steps to make the strengthening of the european union's observer rights a strategic priority and to show greater visibility at the united nations by intensifying consultations with the governments of third countries which are members of the united nations.
in writing. - i approve of this report because, firstly, it criticises the commission for the delay in its publication on 9 february 2011, despite the fact that it was obliged to submit it in 2010, and i regret, as does the rapporteur, the weakness of the commission's communication in view of new developments. i also regret the lack of good results for smes, but i do recognise that the joint technology initiatives help european industry to be competitive, although there is a need to deal quickly with the legal and administrative obstacles that still exist.
in writing. - given the still fragile economic environment resulting from the financial crisis that has hit europe, the rapporteur in his mid-term review points out important areas that need to be improved in order to use public funds as effectively as possible. i agree with the rapporteur's focus on two very important vectors for future european research, namely greater simplification of payments between the european commission and other bodies and greater involvement of smes and industry in general in responding to major social challenges.
in writing. − with the publication of the eu 2020 strategy, it has become clear that the focus on research and development is key if europe is to resume economic growth and win the race to competitiveness. this is why any evaluation of the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities should link up with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and its implementation. i am convinced that through research and development, europe can find efficient and effective answers to the energy problem, to the challenges of climate change and to improve european competitiveness and productivity, leading us to a new, now more sustainable, growth cycle.
in writing. − this report by jean-pierre audy focuses on the mid-term evaluation of the seventh framework programme of the european union for research, technological development and demonstration. the european council, meeting in lisbon on 23 and 24 march 2000, set the goal of making the european union the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. this ambitious goal was not achievable. i hope that the eu 2020 targets will be achieved, in particular the eu's commitment to invest 3% of gdp in r&d by 2020. the eu 2020 cannot wait for the next mff. you have to start now. this review is therefore of crucial importance, as 50% of the seventh framework programme (fp7) allocation is still to be implemented. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's position, particularly with regard to the recommendations on the need to simplify the mechanisms for accessing funds, making the procedures simpler and more transparent and facilitating the activities of smes. it should also focus on key areas such as health, energy and nuclear safety, responding to the new challenges of innovation and research.
in writing. − the report presents several important aspects of the mid-term evaluation of the 7th framework programme for research and technological development. it also makes pertinent observations, such as that most scientific work in the eu is still carried out by researchers and technicians (predominantly young) in precarious working conditions. we believe that public research should be supported and its results made available in a simple and unbureaucratic way, by stimulating productive and entrepreneurial activity (especially smes), the creation of qualified employment with rights, social progress and sustainable development, focusing on fields as diverse as energy efficiency, new sources of energy, the efficient use of resources, recycling, new production processes, among others. we cannot but express our concern about some of the assumptions underlying the european research area. we believe that this should be based on cooperation, mutual benefit, mitigating the inequalities that exist today in national research systems and countering any tendency to concentrate scientific and human resources in the more developed countries (even in so-called poles of excellence).
in writing. − this report presents a number of relevant aspects of the mid-term evaluation of the 7th framework programme for research and technological development, highlighting the concern to ensure the participation of 40% of women researchers, whereas at present this figure does not exceed 25.5%, and recognising that europe continues to lag behind the us and is losing its leading position in relation to emerging economies. the report also regrets that most scientific work in the eu is still carried out in poor working conditions. but there are some aspects which give rise to concern, in particular the principles which guide the european research area, since it must be based on cooperation between genuine research networks and collaboration, reversing any tendency to concentrate scientific and human resources in the more developed countries, and mitigating the inequalities which exist today in national research systems. we must support public research and make its results available in a simple and unbureaucratized way to the innovation of micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, whether in terms of energy efficiency, the use of new energy sources and new production processes, recycling and better use of resources, generators of jobs with rights, or in the social and human sphere, with a view to social progress.
in writing. − this framework programme for research and technological development (r&d) is the european commission's largest financial instrument to support and promote research activities. over €50 billion is budgeted for the period 2007-13. this report sets out the way forward for this r & d framework programme, which should be linked to the europe 2020 strategy but also to the innovation union initiative, with the main objectives being the areas of climate change, energy policy, competitiveness and population ageing. if we can achieve the objectives set out here, i have no doubt that we will enter a new economic growth cycle.
in writing. − this report on the mid-term evaluation of the seventh framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities is based on the premise of reconciling science and citizens. the lisbon strategy set an ambitious goal for the european union: to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. the central role of research was recognised in this strategy. that wish, for various reasons, was not fulfilled. the future will be the decade 2000-2010 which ends with a very serious economic crisis. it is now important, and i share the rapporteur's ambition, to analyse the work done and to reorient future work. fp7 is a new opportunity for the eu to match its research policy with its economic and social ambitions, notably by consolidating the european research area. fp7 is one of the world's most important research support programmes and the main tool of eu research policy. the specific programmes in place, such as the cooperation programme, the ideas programme, the people programme and the capacity programme, can and should enable the development of knowledge which will enable our companies to innovate more and strengthen their competitiveness.
in writing. − the evaluation of the seventh framework programme of the european union for research, technological development and demonstration activities should be carried out looking at the current state of the european union, but with an eye to the future. the rapporteur is well aware of the failure of the objective set by the european council in 2000 to make the european union the most powerful knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. however, if this same objective has not been achieved within the time limit, it remains the real aim of the joint action. the evaluation of the framework programme can therefore play a useful role in this respect, namely by seeking to reduce the obstacles to the development of the european economy, in particular by reducing the bureaucracy of access procedures to research support programmes.
in writing. − the seventh framework programme for research and technological development (r&td) is the european commission's largest financial instrument to support and promote research activities, with over €50 billion budgeted for the period 2007-13. this report stresses that the seventh framework programme for r&d&i should be aligned with the europe 2020 strategy and the innovation union flagship initiative, focusing until its completion on the areas of climate change, energy policy, competitiveness and ageing population. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that only by strengthening european research, development and innovation policies will the eu be able to increase its competitiveness on a global scale and take on an increasingly leading role. i also believe it is important that the seventh framework programme should contribute to the definition of the european research area, as laid down in article 179 (1) of title xix of the treaty on european union.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, considering that a comprehensive economic agreement is needed to strengthen the already strong bilateral ties in terms of trade and investment. however, i believe that the agreement should be balanced, favouring fair trade. despite the strong consensus on an ambitious agreement, i would argue that it should not affect public services or the eu's rights to legislate on the fuel quality directive. the agreement must also have an ambitious sustainable development objective that legally links social and environmental parameters. other
in writing. − the rules-based multilateral trading system established through the world trade organisation (wto) remains the most appropriate means of regulating and promoting fair and equitable trade. however, given the historic and successful economic relationship between the eu and canada, i support an agreement that goes beyond the wto commitments and complements multilateral rules in order to achieve the full potential of cooperation between these two powers.
in writing. − canada and the european union share a set of values that make them not just trading partners but natural allies in the global geostrategic framework. it is a fact that on both sides of the atlantic there is the same civilization which would gain a great deal by further strengthening the relations between its peoples. it would be idle to talk at length about canada's historical links with europe and the contribution its citizens made to the liberation of the european continent in the two world wars that ravaged it. despite the remaining obstacles to trade liberalization and the union's reluctance to adopt canadian practices, i hope that sooner rather than later the necessary foundations will be laid for a mutually beneficial trade partnership. a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between canada and the european union could be the most ambitious and comprehensive of all those we have signed. i pray that it is.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution focuses on trade relations between the european union (eu) and canada, the negotiations of which are expected to be completed by the end of 2011. the eu's trade and investment policy aims at sustainable economic growth, which generates wealth and creates jobs. let us remember that the completion of our trade relations with our strategic partners will allow the eu to have a gdp surplus of 1% by 2020 (€120 billion 2010 figures), benefiting consumers and businesses. to this end, and without calling into question the role of the world trade organisation (wto), trade liberalisation through the conclusion of all ongoing negotiations under the doha development agenda (dda) where eu-canada trade relations are concerned is essential. despite the remaining open issues, such as the negative impact on biodiversity due to the extraction of tar sands and seal products - and since the problem of public procurement is practically solved - i voted in favour, given the advantages for the member states and to allow the negotiations to go ahead without any delay.
in writing. the first recital in the preamble to the resolution is clear on the view which guides it: states that the multilateral trading system, established through the world trade organisation (wto), remains the most appropriate framework for regulating and promoting fair and equitable trade. it continues to advocate the need to conclude the doha round. this is a view which is developed in the subsequent paragraphs of the resolution and which we obviously disagree with. how much more so do the millions of workers, farmers, small and mediumsized businesses and many others who have been pointing the finger of blame at the wto, its trade deregulation objectives and the interests it serves - those of the transnational corporations and the large economic and financial groups, which raise millions at the expense of millions of jobs, labour and social rights, the destruction of small and mediumsized production and environmental degradation. the free trade agreement with canada, like others, also extends to services, with some (but inconsequential) concerns being expressed, in the form of negative lists or otherwise, which do not remove the threats that also hang over public services. that is reason enough for us to vote against.
in writing. the european union continues to build its trade policy with consequences that affect the different member states profoundly but differently. the agreements which give concrete expression to this policy are based fundamentally on free trade, the aims and effects of which are well illustrated by the rhetoric associated with it: that of so-called offensive interests, as if it were a war. in general, these agreements are increasingly lacking in democratic legitimacy, since they are negotiated almost always in the utmost secrecy, behind the backs of the citizens, seeking to conceal their economic, social and environmental impacts, avoiding informed debate and clarification. with the negotiations said to be well advanced and due to be concluded in 2011, their full sectoral and country-specific impacts are yet to be discussed. but the content of this agreement is not new: the opening up of markets, the liberalisation of services, including public services, which are increasingly commodified, at the mercy of the interests of multinationals and with difficulties for the people. the consequences are well known: domination of markets by some, destruction of the weakest productive systems and increased pretexts for attacks on rights and living and working conditions.
in writing. - the historical relationship between europe and canada is long-standing, even pre-dating the eu. on the other hand, we share the same values and principles, which makes us preferred allies in the global geostrategic framework. trade relations have made significant progress, but there is still no comprehensive agreement. i think we must continue to make every effort to find a good agreement for everyone, because that will be very important for the economic development of both sides.
in writing. - i welcome this european parliament resolution on trade relations between the eu and canada. there is a natural partnership between the eu and canada, founded on cultural proximity and a long common history. it is therefore natural that the private sectors in the eu and canada express strong support for an ambitious and comprehensive economic agreement and believe that moving forward with a closer eu-canada economic partnership would send a strong growth signal to investors and businesses in the eu and canada, as well as to international businesses. i therefore welcome an agreement with canada that goes beyond the wto commitments and complements the multilateral rules, provided that the negotiations lead to an ambitious, high-quality agreement based on reciprocity and aimed at more than just tariff reductions. i would point out, however, that the economic impact of this opening-up must be taken into account, particularly in the member states with the most vulnerable economies.
in writing. - at present, the wto trading system seems to be the most appropriate one to provide a framework for economic relations between states. however, nothing prevents states or supranational structures from extending their economic relations beyond this common regulation. this seems to justify a particularly close relationship between the eu and canada. as the report points out, the eu is canada's second largest community partner. canada was the first industrialised country with which the eu concluded a framework agreement on trade and economic cooperation in 1976 and is the fourth largest source of foreign direct investment in the eu. an agreement could lead to relations between the two areas reaching a higher level of economic cooperation, further linking these two areas already deeply interlinked by a common cultural matrix.
in writing. - i welcome this own-initiative report as it addresses the current issues of debate in the rating industry, namely the lack of competition, oligopolistic structures and the lack of accountability and transparency, particularly in the rating of sovereign debt.
in writing. − the rating agencies carry out assessments of countries, institutions and companies, assigning risk ratings on the ability to pay their debts on the agreed date. regulation no 1060 on credit rating agencies was adopted in 2009 as a first reaction to the financial crisis. that regulation addressed the most pressing issues and subjected credit rating agencies to supervision and regulation. however, it did not solve all the problems. in fact, the financial crisis has highlighted three fundamental problems in the functioning of these agencies: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings and lack of accountability. this report, which i supported, calls on the european commission to identify the shortcomings and provide an impact assessment on possible alternatives, including new legislative proposals. the european commission is also asked to assess the costs and benefits of setting up a fully independent european credit rating foundation.
in writing. − given the consequences that sovereign risk ratings can have on the market, on fiscal balances and on the well-being of the general public, it is imperative that they are based on reliable facts and data. in order to preserve the veracity and fairness of such ratings, it is necessary to improve the transparency underlying such decisions as well as the accountability of such agencies. i therefore support and welcome the setting of priorities for the regulation of credit agencies proposed today, which i consider to be essential to overcome the problems of this industry.
in writing. the role of credit rating agencies is undoubtedly important in today's market economy. these agencies are, by their very nature, information intermediaries, facilitating market access for dividend issuers and investors, allowing a reduction in information costs and consequently greater liquidity and transparency. however, as in many other areas of the sector, the crisis has brought to light three fundamental problems: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and lack of accountability for the ratings of credit rating agencies. the role of these agencies in the regulation of the global financial market needs to be reviewed and effective solutions to their lack of competition found, and it is imperative to assess conflicts of interest in the business model.
in writing. − ncas rate three different sectors - the public sector, corporates and structured finance - and have played a significant role in the path to the financial crisis, by assigning incorrect ratings to structured finance instruments that had to be downgraded by an average of three to four notches during the crisis. regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 was the first response to the financial crisis and already addresses the most pressing issues by subjecting ncas to supervision and regulation. however, i hope that the ancs will be obliged to be more transparent in their actions. the lack of certainty about the applicable regulation in this sector is putting at risk the smooth functioning of eu financial markets and it is therefore necessary that the commission, before submitting further amendments to regulation no 1060/2009, correctly identify the gaps in the new framework and provide an impact assessment for the range of alternatives available to fill this gap, including the possibility of new legislative proposals. the credit rating industry has several problems, some of the most important being lack of competition, oligopoly structures and lack of accountability and transparency.
in writing. - the reality of recent years has amply demonstrated the lack of credibility of credit rating agencies. however, they remain at a loss and their action is extremely damaging, especially for the countries with the weakest economies. as entities that are dependent on the financial system, a very interested party in the valuations they make, they live above all from the disproportionate stimulus to credit and capitalist financial speculation. these agencies are a clear expression of the financialization of the economy without any translation or correspondence in real increase in productive activity and constitute a central part of the strategy of development of neoliberalism, always in search of profit rates that real production cannot ensure, due to the well-known tendency of the low profit rate. although the report does contain some criticisms of the functioning of these agencies, it never really goes to the heart of the matter and does not propose public control of the financial sector, because it does not want to compromise the interests of the large economic and financial groups. this is a key issue. we therefore insist on effective regulation of the financial sector, putting an end to the liberalization of capital movements, tax havens, derivatives and the operation of these credit rating agencies.
in writing. - we know, as has been shown by experience, that credit rating agencies are not credible, but their activities continue to be very harmful, particularly for the countries with the weakest economies, which live mainly on the disproportionate encouragement of credit and capitalist financial speculation. they are mainly the result of the financialization of the economy without any translation or correspondence in real increase in productive activity and constitute a central part of the development strategy of neoliberalism, always in search of profit rates that real production cannot ensure. the report, while it does contain some criticisms of the way these agencies operate, never really goes to the heart of the matter, nor does it propose public control of the financial sector, because it does not want to compromise the interests of the major economic and financial groups. we therefore insist on effective regulation of the financial sector, including the liberalization of capital movements, tax havens, derivatives and the operation of these credit rating agencies. we need another tax policy that contributes to economic development, social justice and balanced public accounts, which can be helped by the end of tax benefits in tax havens, the taxation of capital gains on the stock exchange and the introduction of a supplementary tax on the profits of large economic and financial groups.
in writing. − credit rating agencies serve a number of useful purposes, producing information on the credit quality of issuers, enabling issuers to access global and domestic markets, reducing information costs and widening the number of potential investors, making markets more liquid. however, the recent financial crisis has brought to light three major problems in this industry: lack of competition, over-reliance on external ratings in the regulatory framework and lack of accountability for the ratings of ncas. we have to be mindful of the potential actions to be taken. these should be subject to the necessary assessments and impact checks to avoid hasty decision-making that could be counterproductive, increasing barriers to entry and the risk of more prudent ratings with their effects on the real economy and lending. we must look at this industry in a global perspective, as it is a truly global industry with an underlying global capital market. so it's important to keep up with developments in the us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this parliament resolution on credit rating agencies, because i agree that it is essential to reduce unfair competition caused by the common practice of credit rating agencies to assess market participants at the same time as they receive rating requests from them. i believe that the commission should carefully consider the potential use of alternative instruments to measure credit risk. it is essential that the european securities and markets authority effectively exercises its supervisory powers and has the right to carry out unannounced investigations and on-site inspections and that, in exercising its supervisory powers, it provides persons subject to proceedings with the opportunity to be heard in order to respect the rights of the defence. i also agree with the request to the commission to undertake a detailed impact study on the costs, benefits and potential governance structure of a fully independent european credit rating foundation, which would extend its remit to the three rating sectors.
in writing. - while there are some positive aspects to this report, it was not able to propose the creation of a public and independent european credit rating foundation. on the contrary, the ambiguity of the written text allows for public funding of a new private agency. the report also omits the withdrawal of government bonds from the agency's banknotes - the main measure that could be taken in this area to combat speculation against the euro. finally, the report should have suggested to the commission to consider the possibility of a prior approval by esma of all 'structured finance products'. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has demonstrated the need to regulate credit rating agencies (cras). in fact, recent events have made it possible to identify the shortcomings of their action and to reframe their status as certifying bodies for the object of their analysis: enterprises, the public sector and structured financial instruments. in this respect, it became clear that they play an important role in reducing the information asymmetries that could be felt among investors, but on the other hand, it was noted an excess of confidence in the rating assigned by these agencies, which will have contributed to a large extent to the sharpening of the financial crisis. it is therefore urgent to find a new regulatory model to reduce the dependency on ratings of ncas. the solution is to limit the ecb's reliance on data from external agencies, to strengthen the powers of regulators and supervisors, to open up the debate on the creation of a european credit rating foundation, to increase the range of information available to investors (thus reducing the power of ncas) and, for example, to strengthen the mechanisms for civil liability.
in writing. − credit rating agencies are information intermediaries which, by reducing information asymmetries in capital markets and facilitating access to the global market, by reducing information costs and by harnessing the potential of creditors and investors, promote liquidity and transparency in markets. however, these agencies have some problems, notably the lack of competition, oligopolistic structures and over-reliance, and lack of transparency and accountability. such issues are more relevant in the present day, particularly for member states which, due to their economic and financial difficulties, see the rating of various national institutions fluctuate in an inconsistent and cyclical manner. in the future, it is appropriate to define the role of these agencies, whose importance cannot, however, be denied. i therefore support the proposal put forward by this parliament to ask the commission to carry out an impact assessment and a study on the costs, benefits and governance structure of a european credit rating agency competent in the various rating sectors: the public sector, companies and financial instruments.
in writing. - i support this report, considering it essential to recognise that there are shortcomings both within and outside the european territory in respect of compliance with international social legislation, which constitute forms of social and environmental dumping to the detriment of the rights of european businesses and workers. it is hoped that this report will strengthen the hard core of labour standards embodied in the legislation of the international labour organisation.
in writing. - our globalised world, in which countries are interconnected in economic, social, cultural and political relations, is an undeniable reality. however, in the context of trade relations between the european union and third countries, profound differences remain in social protection systems and working conditions. the european union, as a trading partner and a major negotiating voice on a global scale, must help to promote higher labour and social standards in third countries. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which underlines the essential role that the eu can play in respecting human rights, in particular through the right to decent work.
in writing. - i welcome the eu's activities and initiatives to promote labour and social standards in third countries, which in the current context of globalisation are a guarantee that growth in the global economy will be beneficial for all. i therefore support the conditions based on social values and human dignity imposed on third countries to negotiate with the eu. it is through this kind of union that we will succeed in foreign policy in order to improve the global picture.
in writing. − the ilo has a key role in the international system, as it contributes to building consensus around labour standards. a large part of this important acquis is recognised by all eu member states. however, differences in labour law between developed and developing countries persist. it is, in my view, imperative for the eu to agree these standards with third countries, in particular with key trading partners, in order to preserve a minimum of fairness in international trade. this report goes against this view by outlining some strategies for these countries to respect the same eu principles at work. the creation of a standard of fair working conditions is an essential prerequisite for sustainable and sustainable development, and also allows us to meet the millennium development goals. i therefore believe that this report is a very valuable contribution to the development of the international trading system, which is based on such disparate labour relations between different countries/trade blocs. i believe that the promotion of this policy of responsibility for working conditions is a sign of a vigilant and rigorous europe which is guided by the defence of the universal values in which it believes.
in writing. the external dimension of european policies is not limited to agreements or external aid. it's more than that. it is particularly important to bring european values to third countries, not only in the direction of democratisation and greater respect for fundamental rights, but also by promoting active policies to protect the environment, to promote the rights of women and children, and also labour standards which respect human dignity and allow the development of their potential. the same applies to the promotion of corporate social responsibility standards in third countries.
in writing. - this report by richard falbr on social responsibility deals with the external dimension of social policy, the promotion of labour and social standards and the social responsibility of european enterprises. the european union has been a stronghold in defending the social rights of workers, whose respect is a sine qua non for negotiations with third countries. despite the eight conventions of the international labour organisation, according to the same organisation, more than 50% of workers do not enjoy social rights, including immigrants, women and children. it is in the eu's interest to promote human dignity and respect for social rights in all member states by creating a mechanism to monitor and penalise those who do not give these rights to their workers. i welcome and support this report, which calls for the importance of values in a globalising and increasingly economistic society, defends the dignity of the human being, does not allow its exploitation, promotes well-being and its integrated development and calls on the eu to ensure that ilo standards are met.
in writing. - we are again faced with a statement of legitimate concerns and complaints, which unfortunately does not go to the bottom of the issues and which, for that very reason, ends up being largely inconsequential. the ilo's 2010 world report on social security states that more than 50% of workers lack social protection. it is in this context that the european union is developing a trade policy based on the vigorous defence of free trade, achieved through the negotiation and signature of numerous bilateral and regional agreements. agreements which, far from encouraging the (in practice) non-existent social responsibility of enterprises, only protect the profits of economic and financial groups and do not give due attention to labour rights, the importance of collective bargaining and free association of workers, the effective elimination of discrimination in employment, the elimination of forced labour, precarious and low-paid work and child labour. this is just one example of an area where the report could and should have gone much further. it was important to hold the european commission to account, requiring it to be consistent in its policies and action and to take a series of effective measures to promote social and labour standards.
in writing. - this report contains some positive aspects of the continuing disregard for workers' rights and decent work by multinationals, the need to integrate social policy horizontally into all the external policies of the european union, including the so-called corporate social responsibility (csr). however, these positive aspects are diluted by the lack of demand for the implementation of alternative policies that effectively require the implementation of corporate social responsibility. we therefore regret that the amendment calling for the deletion of paragraph 31, which stresses that no directive regulating csr and its implementation should be adopted at eu level, has been rejected. rather than inviting or encouraging the commission to take a position, parliament should demand the creation of a csr legislative framework with minimum standards that promote, in multinational companies and in the european union itself, respect for the core labour standards advocated by the ilo, including decent work and social clauses, both in the bilateral trade agreements that the european union negotiates and in the wto itself. we therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − the globalisation of the economy and the relocation of european companies have raised concerns about the external dimension of social policy. it includes eu activities and initiatives aimed at promoting labour and social standards in third countries. the eight ilo conventions on freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour contain the essential labour standards. in order to negotiate with the eu, third countries must respect the above-mentioned rules. this is a condition without which no negotiations with third countries are possible. trade policy cannot ignore the disregard for workers' rights, and society can only continue to develop if these obstacles are removed. it is essential that international labour standards are used to ensure that economic development remains very much focused on improving human life and dignity rather than on determining the conditions and rights of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the external dimension of social policy and the promotion of labour and social standards and the social responsibility of european enterprises. while the lisbon strategy and the eu 2020 strategy confirm an unprecedented emphasis on social policy, competitiveness issues and economic factors continue to take priority over social issues. the defence of our labour standards contained in the eight ilo conventions on freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation and the abolition of child labour is fundamental. the protection of workers' rights and the primacy of labour law must be the focus. in order to negotiate with the eu, third countries must respect the above-mentioned rules. this should be a condition for negotiations with third countries. trade policy cannot ignore the disregard for workers' rights, and society can only continue to develop if these obstacles are removed.
in writing. − in an increasingly globalised world, the eu must use its influence at international level to ensure that workers' rights are protected in a model of respect for the dignity of the person. in this context, a number of questions arise, such as the choice of the appropriate instrument for the eu to print its guiding principle. the eu's negotiating power is also important when it comes to relations with a country which is either seeking to join the common space or is a beneficiary of community support programmes. finally, in a context where a substantial part of the economy depends on transnational companies, there is also a call for the social responsibility of organisations.
in writing. - i support this report in that vocational education and training should be accessible, available and possible according to the age and status of people in the labour market and their income.
in writing. - the eu is going through a serious economic, financial and social crisis. the consequences of this crisis have been felt most acutely in the field of employment. the number of unemployed in the european union is currently 22.82 million. young people up to the age of 25 remain the most affected, with an unemployment rate of 21.3% in this age group. on the other hand, it is estimated that some 15.6 million new jobs in the eu will be created by 2020 for highly qualified people and, on the other hand, 12 million jobs will be eliminated for people with little or no qualifications. the europe 2020 strategy aims to respond to these new perspectives in the world of work. this report stresses the need to develop cooperation at european level in the field of education and vocational training in order to improve transparency and comparison between the different education systems. the report also stresses the importance of promoting the transposition and implementation of european legislation to facilitate the mobility of teachers and students and to simplify the procedures for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. - the current dramatic situation in terms of unemployment levels, especially among young people, is twofold in several member states, and is thus one of europe's most pressing challenges. it is essential that member states adopt targeted policy strategies to tackle this problem, building on the europe 2020 targets to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% per year and to enable at least 40% of young people completing higher education to be addressed with concrete, creative and effective measures. i find, unfortunately, that the ambitions of strategy 2020 are visibly out of step with the reality of budgetary constraints, which have substantially cut funding for the main community programmes in the field of education. i welcome the measures taken by the commission to ensure greater permeability, transparency and comparability of the recognition process within and between training systems. it is also important that member states initiate a reform of their systems and strengthen the orientation of education and vocational training towards the real needs of the labour market.
in writing. − this report aims to strengthen cooperation measures between member states to promote mutually recognised, higher quality, labour market-oriented and more accessible vocational education and training. this report also reminds us of the need for a strategy for the future of education and, above all, for a guidance for the professional needs that europe will lack in the near future. in particular, the document warns of the need for greater interconnection within the european education and training system, a system in which transparency, mutual recognition of competences and skills is a de facto reality. it seems to me obvious that in an increasingly united europe, where mobility is a growing reality, mutual recognition of qualifications is absolutely essential. however, this requires the transposition of community legislation in these areas, as the report points out. in the face of this new european reality, education/training becomes the basis and the tool for a successful future. the promotion of mobility, entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation is an objective need and should be encouraged by the eu, as stated in the report, which i agree with and which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − in a post-crisis europe, recovering and growing, the importance of vocational education and training plays a crucial role. it is imperative to give young europeans the tools they need to compete in a globalised world and to enter the labour market through their knowledge and skills. (we must not forget that, all over europe, the figures for youth unemployment are staggering.) but we must not ignore the fact that more training often does not equal more opportunities on the labour market. the number of young graduates, those with further training and those with postgraduate training who have no job and no prospect of getting one is increasing in the eu. training must be geared to market needs and must prepare young workers. this paradigm shift will, in my view, be fundamental to halting the growth of unemployment among young people and to guarantee them a future with more possibilities.
in writing. − this report, by nadja hirsch, addresses the issue of european cooperation in the field of vocational education and training in support of the europe 2020 strategy. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy - smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - must be addressed now. although the current economic and financial situation does not seem favourable, we must be able to turn less favourable situations into opportunities. in an increasingly globalised world, we cannot confine ourselves to a particular territory but must cultivate mobility, flexibility and international expertise. it is important that initial training is of high quality and that young people can choose to work in other countries. among the proposals in the report, with which i agree and therefore voted in favour, i would like to stress the need for new and diversified lifelong training, which is essential for a higher quality of work, particularly in the workplace, and the need for very special attention to young people, women and the disabled, as reflected in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - we are faced with yet another tiresome repetition of the commission's usual rhetoric on the issues of lifelong learning and the promotion of mobility at eu level, which are considered the best guarantee for improving the employability and adaptability of workers. vocational training is seen here as a way of promoting entrepreneurship and responding to the need to create an environment where businesses can succeed, develop and grow, adding that to grow they need a reduced tax burden and predictability so that they can plan and make investments. it also considers that vocational training and lifelong learning should be more geared to the needs of the labour market, allowing for entry and mobility into the labour market. at a glance, the ideological mark of the report is clear: the problem of employment as an individual problem and not eminently social, with the individual (and not society) solving it, either by increasing his employability or by becoming an entrepreneur; a profit-friendly tax system and therefore a tax on work and consumption; education and training entirely at the service of the interests of capital. the rest is not investigated, and no solutions are sought.
in writing. − in this report we have a repetition of the usual rhetoric of the european commission in relation to the issues of lifelong learning and the promotion of mobility at eu level, considered the best guarantee against unemployment and the need to improve employability and adaptability of workers, in order to organise education and training provision. but the report's main emphasis is on the role of vocational training in promoting entrepreneurship and the need to create an environment where businesses can succeed, develop and grow, adding that to grow they need a reduced tax burden and predictability so they can plan and invest. it also considers that vocational training and lifelong learning should be more geared to the needs of the labour market, allowing for entry and mobility into the labour market. in other words, what the report does is to put education and training totally at the service of the interests of european capitalism. on the other hand, it ignores the social reasons for school dropouts, lack of access to higher education and youth unemployment, only to avoid the responsibility for neoliberal policies that promote the interests of economic and financial groups. we therefore consider this report unacceptable. it doesn't go into the causes, it doesn't look for solutions.
in writing. − the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy is essential for the eu to restart sustained and sustainable economic growth. young people are a key part of the success of strategy 2020. however, as is well known, it is these young people who are currently suffering the most from the crisis, particularly with the very high unemployment rates, which in the case of young people have doubled compared to the rest of the unemployed. for this to become a reality, a strong investment in education and vocational training is needed.
in writing. − european cooperation in the field of vocational education and training to support the europe 2020 strategy is key. having the opportunity to learn and work in an international environment is an important condition for professional success in a globalised economy. there is a growing demand for employees with mobility, flexibility and international experience. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to bring strategy 2020 to life. this process must start early in the field of vocational education and training by adopting concrete measures at union and member state level. all these factors lead me to vote in favour of this report. we have an obligation to provide workers in europe with an opportunity to adapt to the demands of the economy. as policy makers we must create conditions for people to develop and broaden their skills. skill development cannot be aimed solely at helping people find better jobs. skills development must also give them the opportunity to create the jobs of the future and thus make an active contribution to an innovative economy.
in writing. - europe is aware, on the one hand, of the increase in youth unemployment and the precarious and temporary nature of the jobs they normally do. but it is also clear that companies lack skilled workers whose training is geared to the tasks they are required to perform. in this context, it is important to seek to match the supply of and demand for employment by means of measures such as independent vocational training advice, the provision of funds to support vocational training and competition between training establishments. the ultimate aim is to enable people to find better jobs, but also, as the explanatory memorandum says, to 'have the opportunity to create the jobs of the future'.
in writing. - youth unemployment in europe stands at 21% and currently affects more than 5.5 million young europeans, who are at risk of social exclusion due to lack of opportunities and are forced to accept precarious jobs. training and education are the major challenges facing the european union today, as enshrined in the eu 2020. the aim is to reduce the rate of early school leaving to below 10% and to enable 40% of young people to complete tertiary education by 2020. these are very ambitious targets, but they are necessary for economic growth and increased competitiveness in the member states and, consequently, for job creation. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to have a long-term strategy at community level which will make it possible to combat both structural unemployment and youth unemployment. i think it is important to continue to support smes, which create 50% of jobs, and to focus on lifelong learning. finally, i would like to mention the need for the recognition of professional qualifications, allowing greater mobility of professionals and students.
in writing. - i approve this report. this report assesses the performance of the development cooperation financing instrument (dci), but notes the importance of the successor mechanism to be launched later this year. i agree with the rapporteur's criticism that the scrutiny work carried out by the european parliament has not received any recognition from the representatives of the member states and the icd committee.
in writing. - i already welcome the efforts made by the european union to eradicate poverty in developing countries. international cooperation aimed at promoting the self-sufficiency and independence of these countries is the right way to achieve social and political peace at world level, which will not only have essential effects on the lives of the populations helped but will also lead to the solution of problems such as immigration at european level. i therefore support increased european funding for this cause, along with the creation of a financial instrument that focuses exclusively on it.
in writing. − in the context of the debate on the next post-2013 multiannual financial framework, it is of particular importance to redefine and strengthen the european parliament's positions on the new instrument to govern eu development cooperation (taking into account the lessons learned from the implementation of the icd during the period 2007-2013). i therefore consider it essential that the achievement of the millennium development goals should continue to be given priority in this new instrument. to achieve this, namely poverty eradication, it is essential that a future instrument be provided with realistic and adequate financial resources, and the commission should ensure that eu aid is consistent with internationally agreed development objectives and targets. i would also like to stress the importance of the strictness of the eligibility criteria for the countries benefiting from the funds of this future instrument. i would like to stress that the new cooperation instrument must be the basis for specific and more flexible aid in situations of fragility, ensuring the proper interlinking of emergency, rehabilitation and development operations. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr gay mitchell, on his report and i support the suggestions it contains.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to establish parliament's initial position on the production of a new development cooperation financing instrument, based on the previous regulation. i believe that the involvement of the european parliament (ep) in the management phase of the redesign of this instrument will be an effective asset to it, and i welcome this initiative. i believe that the values which characterise the ep's work, in particular the promotion of democracy and the defence of human rights, can make a positive contribution to building a more dense, effective and comprehensive instrument. the way in which the report analyses this issue is, in my view, quite interesting, proposing new approaches which will now have to be discussed over the next few months, particularly as regards the need for more differentiated aid to developing countries by dividing them into groups. it also stressed the need for serious and consistent retrospective work in this area, proposing a new approach to development aid based on greater differentiation, involvement of civil society and strict eligibility criteria.
in writing. − after four years of implementation of the development cooperation financing instrument, it is time to take stock of how it has worked, in order to improve future financial instruments for the same subject. the need to maintain parliament's democratic control over this and future financial instruments is now clear, and the importance of greater involvement of the national parliaments of developing countries in the preparation of national strategic documents relating to aid received from the union is clearer. i hope that aid levels will not be reduced, but increased where possible, and that ways will be found of using it to benefit the most deprived populations. in this process, it is never too much to stress the crucial role that should be given to civil societies in developing countries. a block approach to the situations of developing countries should be avoided, and it is preferable to do so in a more differentiated way, given that in many cases traditional financial aid may become less relevant, as is the case with so-called emerging countries.
in writing. − this report, by gay mitchell, looks at the lessons learned and the future prospects for the development cooperation financing instrument established by regulation (ec) no 1905/2006. after four years of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006, it is time to take stock and learn from any errors and/or shortcomings, as the commission intends to present its proposals for the post-2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) before the summer. the rapporteur's proposals, namely the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), the eradication of poverty, the channelling of 20% of resources to health and basic training, a special focus on climate issues, a new approach to support for developing countries requiring respect for human rights, and a more efficient and effective use of scarce resources, deserve my agreement and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the report assesses the financing instrument for development cooperation (ifd) after four years of operation of the regulation establishing it. the evaluation carried out is relevant from several points of view. we have made timely and critical remarks to the icd and to the eu's development cooperation policy, which we believe are both right and necessary. the report states that the aim of development policy should not be to defend the interests of the eu but rather the interests of the most vulnerable people on the planet. draws attention to the excessive focus on investments to be made by the private sector, alongside constraints imposed on the public sector; the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13. criticises any attempt to reduce the amounts of the cdi and the european development fund; the european council stressed the need to strengthen the european union's capacity to respond to the challenges of the 21st century, and stressed once again the insufficient achievement of the millennium development goals and the need to increase official development assistance. we believe, however, that on each of these points further progress could and should have been made. the commission has also been active in promoting the development of the european union's external relations, particularly in defending the coherence between the declared objectives of development cooperation policy and the various sectoral policies of the eu.
in writing. - this report assesses the financing instrument for development cooperation (ifd) after four years of operation of the regulation which established it. the evaluation carried out is relevant from several points of view. we have made timely and critical remarks to the icd and to the eu's development cooperation policy, which we believe are both right and necessary. for example, the report states that the aim of development policy should not be to defend the interests of the eu, but rather the interests of the most vulnerable people on the planet. it draws attention to the excessive focus on investments by the private sector, together with the constraints imposed on the public sector, and warns of the need not to divert funds from sectors already underfunded (giving as examples support for local authorities). it also criticised any attempt to reduce the amounts of the cdi and the european development fund and stressed once again the insufficient achievement of the millennium development goals and the need to increase official development assistance. we believe, however, that on each of these points more could and should have been done, especially in defending the coherence between the declared objectives in the field of development cooperation policy and the various sectoral policies of the eu.
in writing. - it is time to take stock of the way the development cooperation financing instrument has been used, after four years of its existence. only then can we make improvements to make it more effective in the future. it is important that the ep has a say in the control of this and future financial instruments. despite the economic crisis we are living in, it is important that these instruments of support for developing countries be maintained so that they can, in the near future, increase their levels of wealth, with the inherent improvement in the living conditions of the populations in the so-called emerging countries.
in writing. − 2011 is the strategic time to learn from the four years of regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (dci). the commission announced that it will present its proposals for the post-2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) before the summer break in parliament and legislative proposals for the financial instruments for external action at a later date, later this year. the present report, which i am voting for, aims to define parliament's first position on the new financing instrument for eu development cooperation, based on the implementation of the cdi over the last four years. i would stress the need to promote in future the following broad lines: adequate funding within the available resources; focus on poverty eradication and oda criteria; geographical and thematic programmes; eu aid programming processes; better coordination and division of tasks; and closing the democratic gap, calling on the european parliament to take part in the decision-making process.
in writing. − four years after the entry into force of regulation (ec) no 1095/2006 and the commission having already announced the submission of proposals for the multiannual financial framework for the period after 2013, it is appropriate to make a brief review of the results achieved so far and of the future development paths. first of all, it should be stressed that this is the 'only area of external action (...) which has not been designed to serve the interests of the eu but to defend the interests of the most marginalized and vulnerable people on the planet'. in this context, parliament must assume a more prominent position not only because of its democratic (and plural) legitimacy but also because of the contributions it can make in terms of material and procedural matters. it also stresses that the objective should be poverty eradication, by reference to the concept of 'basic social services', in order to reduce the extreme vulnerability of the most deprived populations.
in writing. - i approve this report, given that the amendments introduced by the s&d have been included in the commitment base, which contains key points such as general guidelines, the potential for improvement at commission level and the potential for improvement at european parliament level.
in writing. − impact assessments are a central tool in the legislative process. gathering concrete facts for policy decision-making and ensuring that all relevant strategic options are considered when addressing any specific problem is an imperative of rigour. impact studies should apply to all legislative proposals, have a clear methodology, and be carried out with complete independence and transparency. impact assessments shall also assess the option of inaction and the specific consequences for smes. despite improvements in this area, the impact assessments of the european commission and the european parliament can be further improved. this report, which has my support, calls for greater integration of the european parliament's committees, for detailed justification when the european commission does not carry out impact assessments, and finally challenges parliamentary committees to increase the use of impact assessments in order to improve the quality of their legislative action.
in writing. − for assertive and successful legislation, not only good political discussion and concerted efforts leading to cooperation and consensus are necessary, but also a sound technical basis to guide the legislators in assessing the context and consequences of the policies being dealt with. i therefore welcome the initiatives taken by the european institutions to ensure the quality and accuracy of impact assessments, which will in turn ensure their independence and transparency.
in writing. − the policy of the european union should have as one of its priority objectives the introduction of a transparent, clear, effective and high-quality regulatory environment. we have on many occasions criticised the shortcomings in the transposition and implementation of existing community legislation, which are largely the result of inadequate drafting of the legislative texts, and it is therefore the responsibility of the european legislative bodies to deal with this problem. impact assessments provide a systematic assessment of the likely effects of legislative action on health, fundamental rights, social, economic, environmental, etc., helping to reduce red tape and ensure the coherence of eu policies. i support this initiative which recognises the key role of impact assessments in supporting the decision-making process, which must be characterised by complete independence, transparency, follow a clear methodology, carry out a reasoned and objective analysis of potential effects and always be accompanied by a cost-benefit analysis. by contributing to informed and fully informed decision-making, which should lead to better quality of legislation, better transposition, enforcement and monitoring, and faster legislative processes.
in writing. − impact assessments (ias) are a central tool in the legislative process, as they give an account of the possible consequences of the application of a given legislation and therefore help to make a decision. independence and transparency are values which must be preserved and encouraged in any democracy, as they give citizens guarantees of objectivity in the assessment, proportionality in the decision and legality in the procedure. that is why i agree in general terms with parliament's proposals contained in this report.
in writing. - this report, by angelika niebler, deals with the question of how to 'ensure the independence of impact assessment'. impact assessments (ia) are fundamental to making the right decisions. without replacing the democratic decisionmaking process of the legislative authority, they are nevertheless the backbone of that process. i am voting in favour of this report because i share the rapporteur's view that impact studies are essential to carrying out our task as legislators. the more knowledge we have of a particular sector, the better our decision-making in relation to it. in addition, and despite the establishment of the impact assessment committee (iac) set up by the european commission and the positive results already achieved, i also think it is essential to create an autonomous impact assessment structure for the european parliament.
in writing. − impact assessments can be an important tool in the legislative process. this requires consideration of the economic, social, environmental and health consequences of the policy choices to be made and their impact on the fundamental rights of citizens throughout the policy cycle. the evaluation should be carried out not only ex ante but also ex post. the impact assessment process today is, however, fraught with many flaws, as the report acknowledges. often, the only attempt is to attribute a supposedly technical legitimacy and justification to measures which are the result of (conveniently concealed) political choices and assessments. there are also numerous questions concerning the methodology to be followed in each case: what or who will be measured the impacts on? what is the scope of the evaluation? what are the alternatives to consider? these decisions also usually depend on political choices and assessments. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the impact of the new rules on the environment. transparency, openness, public consultation, participation and scrutiny of studies and their results are of decisive importance in ensuring, as far as possible, such independence and the quality of the study.
in writing. − impact assessments can be an important aid to better legislation if they study, throughout the policy cycle, all the economic, social, environmental and health consequences of the policy choices to be made, as well as their impact on the fundamental rights of citizens. but in the questions that are raised in impact studies, we have the criteria used in these impact assessments. we know that there are a number of criteria, not just cost-benefit. and even then, you have to know who's getting the costs and who's getting the benefits. ensuring the independence of impact studies is therefore important, but in practice it is a very difficult task given the multiplicity of variables and interests involved. there will be assessments and experts with more independent methodologies than others. but in reality, impact assessments often serve more to justify the decisions that are intended to be taken than to address, in fact, all the implications of the legislation that is intended to be adopted.
in writing. − impact assessments (ia) are very important in the legislative process and should be encouraged in the future. there are great advantages to ai. they alert the legislative authority to the consequences of its choices and contribute to better and more informed decision-making. they are thus an important contribution to legislation of excellence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that impact assessments (ia) are a central instrument of the legislative process, which the european legislative authority should use more intensively in the future. the advantages of ai are obvious. ai informs the legislative authority of the possible consequences of its choices and helps it to make a decision. they can therefore be an important contribution to better lawmaking. however, ai is in no way a substitute for political discourse and the democratic decision-making process of the legislative authority, serving exclusively to prepare a political decision from a technical point of view. there has been progress in the quality of impact assessments carried out by the european commission, in particular due to the creation of the impact assessment committee (iac). however, on the basis of the report of the european court of auditors, i believe that the commission's impact assessments can be improved. i agree that greater involvement of the european parliament's committees in this work can be useful for a better quality impact assessment.
in writing. − the need to ensure the independence of impact assessments arises above all from their high profile in the political decision-making process. they cannot, as such, replace the decision whether or not to adopt a particular solution and can therefore have a decisive influence on the choice of a given political solution. it is therefore essential that measures be adopted to strengthen the guarantees of independence and transparency of impact assessments, thus helping to ensure that this instrument can fully play its role as an aid to the political decision-making process and as a guarantor of the quality and appropriateness of the work of the community institutions.
in writing. − impact assessments carried out in the european union are in the interest of all european citizens, as they contribute to improving the quality of legislation through independent analysis of the effects of potential and possible measures taken at european level. the rapporteur stresses the need to assess more effectively and efficiently the economic, social, environmental and public health consequences of the union's policy choices. impact assessments play a key role throughout the policy development cycle and are also a prerequisite for quality standards and the correct transposition and application of standards. i therefore support the proposals for criteria to be taken into account when carrying out impact studies put forward by this parliament. i would like to stress that these evaluations must be carried out as soon as possible in order to minimise any negative effects and to take account of the greatest possible number of institutional, economic and civil actors involved. however, they should not only be promoted before a legislative text (ex ante) but also after its adoption (ex post). impact assessments shall be independent and carried out in a transparent and objective manner. they should follow up new legislative proposals and follow a common system and methodology in the european parliament.
in writing. − i support this report, but consider that a possible optional scheme could be beneficial for consumers and smes if the commission provides concrete data indicating the need for further progress in order to ensure that the consultation carried out by the commission remains transparent.
in writing. - contracts are the basic link between business and consumers. the single market in the european union is based on a variety of contracts which are governed by different national laws. this divergence in contract law discourages companies, especially smes, from engaging in crossborder trade, thus preventing them from accessing the new opportunities and gains offered by the internal market. in addition, consumers are disadvantaged in terms of limited choice, high prices and lower quality due to weak cross-border competition. for example, only 8% of consumers shop online from another member state. this report, which i supported, argues for the need for an optional instrument (oi) for european contract law by means of a regulation. this will give consumers greater protection under european contract law and greater security when transacting across borders. for companies, particularly smes, it would be easier and less costly to conclude contracts under a common set of eu contracting rules.
in writing. − given the significant impact of contract law on economic transactions and, consequently, on the internal market, i welcome all the efforts made by the commission and the european parliament to harmonise its parameters within the eu and to adapt them to the single market. i agree with the report on this subject.
in writing. - the existence of a european contract law, which has been the subject of lengthy debate in the institutions, can bring a number of benefits to businesses, consumers and the functioning of the internal market itself. we are therefore not indifferent to the potential of a common set of general rules and principles applicable to contract law in terms of increasing cross-border transactions, regulating electronic commerce and improving consumer access to products. however, as the rapporteur has said, i believe that the option of an optional instrument for european contract law, which exists alongside national legislation but does not replace it, is relevant.
in writing. − this report, by diana wallis, looks at the strategic options for moving towards a european contract law for consumers and businesses. a correct choice, in terms of european contract law, can benefit the functioning of the internal market, smes and consumers. this has been a recurring theme in the european parliament (ep) since 1989, leading the commission to draw up an action plan in 2003. the commission has moved forward with a proposal for a directive on consumer rights, in 2008 it produced two progress reports, and now it has moved forward with a set of measures in the form of a green paper, to which this report aims to respond. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. the report seeks to use rhetoric to defend consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. however, its contents pose dangers for both consumers and smes. the rapporteur's view is markedly neoliberal, as is clear from the emphasis on breaking down the barriers faced by those wishing to carry out crossborder transactions in the internal market, considering that the draft european contract law, together with other measures, is useful for the full realisation of the internal market. the liberalizations and deepening of the internal market that the eu has been producing show that it is mainly large companies that benefit the most. the current dynamics suggest that proposals for harmonising contracts (at this stage still optional) are being made with the same interests at the forefront. these reservations are justified by statements in the report, such as that the optional instrument must offer a very high level of consumer protection in order to compensate consumers for the protection they would normally enjoy under their national law. it should be stressed that the instrument proposed at community level, which is the same for all contracts at european level, is still very generic.
in writing. - it is a clearly neoliberal report, which is concerned with the interests of companies, and especially the largest ones, since in a fully liberalised internal market the powerful are the ones who gain the most, although there is always the pamphlet language of defence of small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers. but all this is aimed above all at embellishing the product to hide its real dangers from the voting citizens. that is why we did not vote in favour of the report. there is also the defence of an instrument at community level, albeit optional, the same for all contracts at european level, which is still very generic. here are some statements in the report: - supports measures to remove the range of barriers faced by those wishing to carry out crossborder transactions in the internal market and considers that the draft european contract law, together with other measures, is useful for the full realisation of the internal market; - i know . is convinced that both business-to-business and business-to-consumer contracts should be covered; stresses that the optional instrument must offer a very high level of consumer protection in order to compensate consumers for the protection they would normally enjoy under their national law; i would like to have more explanations on how this can be achieved.
in writing. − while it believes that there is still much to be done in the area of smes and consumer rights, this report is a first step in facilitating crossborder trade between smes.
in writing. − contract law determines and organises transactions within the internal market and therefore its potential to both hinder and facilitate such transactions is obvious. the right choice of the contract law path can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market and unlocking its full potential for businesses, in particular smes, as well as consumers. it should be noted that parliament has, in its various resolutions on this subject, repeatedly recognised the benefits that an improved framework of contract law would have on the internal market, and has also welcomed the idea of a common reference framework and insisted on the close involvement of parliament itself and the interested parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the strategic options for moving towards a european contract law for consumers and businesses. contract law determines and organises transactions within the internal market and its potential to both prejudice and facilitate such transactions is therefore obvious. the right choice of the contract law path can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market and unlocking its full potential for businesses, in particular smes, as well as consumers. i stress the need for a broad and balanced participation of the parties concerned. the current working method of the commission, with the participation of an expert group and a stakeholder group, already ensures the participation of the interested parties. however, while still at the consultation stage, it is important to ensure that this structure is maintained in the legislative process itself. stakeholder participation will be essential, in particular during this legislative process, the inclusive character and transparency of which should be ensured by all available means.
in writing. - one of the most pressing issues in community law is the harmonization of contract law. on the one hand, there seems to be a growing sense of the need for greater internal coherence, so that companies can benefit from the potential of the common market without fearing that in a given foreign law there are solutions which they did not expect or for which they were not prepared (this has been a real problem). but on the other hand, there is a certain resilience of the national states in sacrificing their normative solutions, often the product of centuries of doctrinal elaboration and widely known to their populations. in its green paper of 1 july 2010, the commission presented several regulatory models for a range of solutions, ranging from mere soft law to a european civil code. among the various options, parliament favours the creation of an optional instrument in the form of a regulation, which would primarily regulate cross-border transactions and which might also be suitable for regulating, albeit optional, internal contracts. i voted in favour of this because it seemed to me to be a reasonable solution.
in writing. - the completion of the internal market has the effect of increasing the number of potential consumers in the european union. however, there is still no harmonisation at european level of the rules on consumer and business contracts. this results in the continued existence of obstacles to the full completion of the internal market, resulting from the existence of divergent rules in national laws, and in a fragmentation of consumer law itself. the rapporteur's proposal is to examine the feasibility of an optional instrument in this area, which, formalised by a regulation and complemented by a toolbox, would ensure legal certainty and security. such an instrument would improve the functioning of the single market, benefit businesses and consumers and also bring advantages to the member states' own judicial systems. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the document and i support a proposal from the european commission to this effect, which should in future involve the european parliament itself as well as the economic and civil actors involved.
in writing. − i welcome this report as it includes a number of the s&d group's concerns in recognising the limitations of gdp and the need to include additional indicators to measure economic and social progress in the medium and long term. i also call for the development of clear and measurable indicators, taking into account climate change, biodiversity, resource efficiency and social inclusion, which can help towards a more inclusive, knowledge-based and low-carbon society.
in writing. - although gdp is a useful measure of production for the economic activity of markets, it does not take into account the sustainability of the development demonstrated, nor environmental, social, etc. aspects. i therefore welcome the initiative gdp and beyond measuring progress in a changing world, which aims to encourage and raise awareness of the use of other complementary indicators of gdp in evaluation and policy discussion. i believe that this measurement system, which is based on the corroboration of different parameters of study, will lead to policy decisions that are more suited to the needs of society and the economy in general.
in writing. - despite all the more or less lyrical constructions we can make, the truth is that it is by analysing the gross domestic product (gdp) that we can obtain a reliable picture of the state of development and progress of societies. this is why gdp is (and should continue to be) the main economic indicator to look at. however, it should be complemented, where relevant, by other indicators, which should be studied and introduced gradually.
in writing. − in 2007, the european parliament (ep), together with the european commission, the club of rome, the world wide fund for nature (www) and the oecd, organised a conference under the theme 'towards beyond gdp' where stakeholders argued for the need to develop other complementary indicators of gdp. this report, by anna rosbach, is part of a communication presented by the commission on 28 september 2009 entitled 'gdp and beyond: measuring progress in a changing world' and reflects this need to provide policymakers and all researchers with more comprehensive data. the gross domestic product (gdp) has been the most widely used measure of macroeconomic activity over the past few decades, and more recently has been used as an indicator of social development. in more recent times, several sociologists have argued that this is not the most accurate indicator because it does not take into account aspects such as environmental sustainability or social integration. i agree with the rapporteur's position and have therefore voted in favour of her report, as i believe that the proposal can and should be improved by introducing a more comprehensive and gradual strategy.
in writing. − the neoliberal policies and orientations developed by the eu have undermined social progress and inflicted severe blows on the peoples of europe. the worsening social inequalities in the eu countries, which are now reaching worrying levels, are a clear example of this. this is a fact which we must bear in mind when we look at indicators of development and progress, as in this report. gdp, which is often used as a basis for measuring these two factors - development and progress - is a numerical indicator with natural gaps. by considering only economic activity, wealth creation, and being useful in this respect in determining economic growth, it does not take into account such important parameters as the distribution of wealth, social inequalities, the quality of goods and services, non-commercial transactions or even externalities not accounted for by the market which are essential for measuring development and progress. in many situations, gdp can increase while the majority of citizens in a country become poorer, because gdp does not consider the level of inequality in a society. this makes it necessary to take into account other indicators that can fill these gaps, in order to make the measures of social progress as complete, credible and as close to reality as possible.
in writing. − economic divergences and social inequalities are increasing, caused by the eu's neoliberal policies and orientations, and by the increasingly unfair distribution of national income, both at the level of the european union and of individual states. the use of gdp as a basis for work and as a numerical indicator for measuring development and social progress is therefore becoming increasingly controversial. it is a numerical indicator with many gaps, as it considers only economic activity, leaving out important factors such as the distribution of wealth, social inequalities, the quality of goods and services, non-commercial transactions or even externalities not accounted for by the market. this means that in many situations, gdp can increase while the majority of citizens in a country become poorer, because gdp does not take into account the level of inequality in a society. in this sense, we can consider it acceptable to take into account other indicators that can fill in these gaps in order to make the measures of social progress as complete, credible and as close to reality as possible.
in writing. - as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy on this report, i believe that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensus-based factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions. i therefore believe that the indicators that measure these factors are equally important and should be given more importance. this report, although timidly, is aimed at strengthening and complementing gdp as a means of measuring and evaluating social and economic performance and, by association, the progress of societies, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − we all agree that data and indicators need to be improved to complement gdp as an indicator of overall societal development. the 'gdp and beyond - measuring progress in a changing world' initiative is a complementary tool that can help to improve policy analysis and debate. gdp is an indicator of market economic activity, which has become a standard benchmark for policymakers worldwide. gdp is a measure of output, not measuring environmental sustainability, resource efficiency, social inclusion and social progress in general, so i agree that in the future other types of instruments should be studied that allow for a greater number of reliable data to measure progress in a changing world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report entitled 'gdp and beyond: measuring progress in a changing world'. as the report points out, gdp, used by policymakers around the world and referenced in public debates, has also become an indicator of global societal development and progress in general. it does not, however, provide a reliable basis for political debate on all problems. for example, gdp does not measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion. the commission communication 'gdp and beyond - measuring progress in a changing world' suggests a number of measures as complementary solutions to gdp. more specifically, the communication focuses on the establishment of more comprehensive indicators that will allow a more reliable knowledge base to be built. i would stress my support for the commission's intention to adopt a clearly defined measurement system that goes beyond gdp, in order to complement it in the framework of decision-making and evaluation, using clearly defined and quantifiable indicators.
in writing. − i believe that achieving and sustaining quality of life involves important, consensus-based factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions. i therefore believe that the indicators that measure these factors are equally important and should be given more relevance. this report, although timidly, is aimed at strengthening and complementing gdp as a means of measuring and evaluating social and economic performance and, by association, the progress of societies, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - gdp is the reference macroeconomic indicator, usually used to compare the economies of different countries. however, it is a mere indicator of wealth, and its potential for measuring social development is much smaller. the success of gdp is largely due to its simplicity, rather than the completeness of the results achieved. it is therefore worthwhile developing new indicators which will allow us to look at other aspects of reality, so as to obtain a better overall picture of the level of development of the states. this is a complex process, involving professionals from various sectors, in order to obtain a broader and more complete indicator.
in writing. − the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on gdp and beyond - measuring progress in a changing world (com (2009) 433 final) recognises that gdp is a proxy indicator for overall societal development and progress in general, but does not measure environmental sustainability or social inclusion. in a world where people's quality of life is increasingly measured by factors other than economic, several international institutions, such as the un, the world bank and the oecd, are currently considering the definition of new indicators to measure and analyse economic and social progress. i therefore support this report because i believe it is important for the european union to adopt a systematic approach to measuring the full extent of social well-being, with a particular focus on economic, environmental and quality of life factors in the medium and long term. i believe that these indicators should take a strategic lead in shaping future cohesion policy, thus contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in line with the principles enshrined in europe 2020.
in writing. − i welcome this report because it is a rigorous assessment of the process and implementation to date and because it launches a debate on its future governance, operation and financing, on the decision to create global satellite navigation systems and other autonomous european systems. this includes all the commercial aspects of the holding as well as the legal, contractual and financial structures for different holding models that will ensure the governance model put in place.
in writing. - european satellite navigation programmes have been causing delays and additional costs, which should lead those responsible to reflect on the way they are being implemented today. at a time when countries like portugal are turning to the help of the other member states and when europe as such is facing a serious economic and financial crisis which is threatening its stability, even greater efforts must be made to avoid budgetary overruns and excessive costs. i do not doubt the strategic importance of these projects, but i cannot help but stress that they have fallen short of expectations. i agree that both galileo and egnos, being european programmes and dealing with the common public interest of the union, should be financed primarily through the community budget, but i believe that other possible sources should be considered, including innovative forms of financing.
in writing. this report, by mr remek, deals with european satellite navigation programmes. it is a report which provides a mid-term review of these programmes: assessment of implementation, future challenges and financial perspectives. since 2000, the year gps became available, this sector has grown exponentially (€124 billion in 2008) and is expected to have a global market value of around €230 billion by 2025. in 2008, the eu decided to create its own satellite navigation system (regulation (ec) no 683/2008), galileo and egnos (european geostationary navigation supplementary service), with the aim of ensuring europe's independence and autonomy, increasing its market share and providing the industry with competitive conditions in a strategic and fast-growing market. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposals, despite the financial slippages in the implementation of the project, because i believe that the eu should be at the forefront of cutting-edge technology (r & d), especially when this same technology represents a scientific and economic added value for the eu.
in writing. − as we have mentioned in connection with the application of the european global satellite navigation system to transport, the use of this technology can make an important contribution to the development, modernisation and diversification of public services, in creating opportunities for cooperation and advancement in science and its applications, in the exchange and accessibility of information, while ensuring respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. the question is not whether there is a global satellite navigation system for europe based on its use for non-military purposes and not integrated into the eu security guidelines. the problem is its possible use for military and aggressive purposes. it is particularly worrying that this satellite navigation system is being seen as a competitor to the us gps system, on which the eu depends, and which, as we know, is under military control, with military funding from us federal programmes. we therefore reiterate our doubts as to the limits of the potential uses of these programmes in the context of the competition between the eu and the us in terms of the functionalities and efficiency of these systems.
in writing. - the question is not whether there is a global satellite navigation system for europe based on its use for non-military purposes and not integrated into the eu security guidelines. the problem is its possible use for military and aggressive purposes. their use for non-military purposes can make an important contribution to the provision of public services, with opportunities for cooperation and advancement in science and technology, in the exchange and accessibility of information, while ensuring respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. however, it is worrying that this satellite navigation system is being compared to the competitive level of the us gps system, on which the eu depends, and which is under military control, with military funding from us federal programmes. we therefore have serious doubts about the extent of the potential use of these programmes in a context of competition, both between the functionalities and efficiency of these systems and between the eu and the us.
in writing. - the european satellite navigation programmes, galileo and egnos, will enable europe to establish autonomy and strategic independence vis-à-vis the other major economic blocs, which will contribute to improving the lives of european citizens and will bring direct and indirect benefits to the european economy. however, the problems of financing these programmes can cause significant delays in their implementation, with the resulting losses. we need to implement a medium- to long-term financing strategy to create the necessary confidence in the markets and, consequently, to attract investment and the purchase of applications and services. only a fully functioning galileo and egnos system will provide added value for the eu in all its policies, including transport, agriculture, combating climate change, preventing natural and man-made disasters and science, technology and innovation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu has taken an important step forward with the adoption of its political decision, contained in regulation (ec) no 683/2008, to create autonomous european global navigation satellite systems (gnss) (galileo and egnos) owned and managed by the eu. the communication under review in this report is a mid-term review of this flagship initiative, assessing the process and implementation to date and launching a debate on its future governance, operation and funding. in the current economic context, there is an urgent need for a broad and comprehensive political debate on the level of ambition desired (from which the level of services provided will depend) and the resources available (where a political choice will need to be made between an exclusively community funding model and a model in which national or private contributions are accepted). the outcome of this debate will be reflected in the policy options for future gnss governance and management systems.
in writing. - the galileo programme (which, together with egnos, aims to create a global navigation satellite system - gnss) is a strategic option for the union: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. it is recalled that, as the report states, 7% of eu gdp depends on the use of gps, which reinforces the need for an autonomous satellite navigation system. the aim at the moment is to make a global analysis of the project. among the conclusions to be drawn, it should be noted that the operating costs of these programmes are estimated at eur 800 million per year and that the revenues will only amount to eur 80 million per year by 2030. however, the indirect benefits of the programme are estimated to be as high as eur 60 billion per year. in this context, i think it is important, as the rapporteur proposes, to launch a debate on the future structure and exploitation of this programme, so as to adopt firm and secure solutions for the future of europe.
in writing. − the european initiative to create the galileo and egnos programmes will not only allow europe to establish strategic autonomy and independence vis-à-vis other economic blocs, but above all will bring improvements in the daily lives of european citizens and generate direct and indirect benefits for the european economy. however, for the real benefits of the programmes to be realised, a medium- and long-term strategy is needed in terms of funding and governance, integrating the main actions to be carried out. this is the only way to create the necessary confidence in the markets and, consequently, to attract investment and the purchase of applications and services. only when the galileo and egnos systems are fully operational will they provide concrete european added value in all european union policies, in particular in transport, agriculture, the fight against climate change, the prevention of natural and man-made disasters and in the area of science, technology and innovation. to increase support for these projects, it is essential to raise awareness among those responsible and the general public, so as to create a direct link between these initiatives and european citizens. i also believe that an appropriate financial structure should be created for its implementation and subsequent implementation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, as it sets out the european parliament's good political priorities for the multiannual financial framework, both in legislative and budgetary terms. some of the priorities included by the s&d, and which i stress, are, for example: 1) investment for jobs and growth; 2) social dimension and workers' rights and conditions; 3) sustainability; 4) european added value; 5) a proposal for a structure and a proposal for a duration. i note the need to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, to regions with severe and permanent natural or demographic constraints, such as the northernmost regions with very low population density, and to island, border and mountain regions, as the resources and capacities of these regions can play a significant role in the future competitiveness of the european union.
in writing. - the idea that the mff should support economic governance, at a time when the eu has already realised that greater coordination of economic policies and greater control of budgetary policies are needed, seems to me to be a very relevant idea. in addition to this idea, i find in the report a number of concerns which deserve to be worked on and studied. i welcome the intention to put the mff at the service of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and the concern to at least maintain the budget for the cap and the maintenance of the two-pillar system. however, i note once again that the call for the introduction of a financial transaction tax reappears in a report which is not directly related to the definition of a fiscal policy, which i do not consider to be a transparent practice.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done, which has resulted in a report that allows us to start preparing the next multiannual financial framework after 2013, which is a challenge for the commission and the council. the eu 2020 is consensual, its priorities are clear and its objectives are measurable. it will be the guide to the next financial perspective. however, this strategy will only succeed if there is a budget that corresponds to its actions and objectives. in this respect, the mff amounts need to be commensurate with the ambition and commitment of eu 2020. cohesion policy is based on the principle of solidarity. it is important that this cohesion be economic, social and territorial and that it involves the poorest regions. i think it is essential that the cohesion policy funds should at least be kept at the same level. the common agricultural policy has been a success. the amounts for agriculture must therefore also be maintained and distributed more equitably. it is important to move towards a mff whose revenue does not depend on more than 80% of national budgets. it is therefore urgent to move forward with the debate on the new own resources.
in writing. the rapporteur said that the time had come to put an end to the loud declarations of intent without the appropriate allocation of financial resources to enable the declared objectives to be achieved in practice. well, this report is an exemplary demonstration of that exercise. by basically proposing to freeze the community budget until 2020 (with a residual 5% discount), they are thereby compromising many of the objectives set out in its 40 pages, and in particular the objective of economic and social cohesion. in the face of a serious economic and social crisis, aggravated by community policies, the budgets made possible by these financial perspectives will thus be unable to fulfil a redistributive function essential to the effective implementation of the principle of cohesion. we have made numerous proposals on the need to strengthen the community budget to support economic and social cohesion, accompanied by a reduction in the compulsory national contributions, reducing them to a maximum of 10% of the total amounts of the projects submitted, especially in the countries with the greatest financial difficulties. we have also stressed the importance of promoting investment in public services, supporting production, creating jobs with rights, eradicating poverty and combating social inequalities. the path proposed in this report is quite different. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. - despite some positive proposals, the report does not advocate a break and a change in the european union's policies and financial resources. that is why we voted against it. it is particularly serious that it does not give absolute priority to responding to the serious social problems created by the economic and social crisis, with a significant increase in the community budget to support economic and social cohesion, accompanied by a reduction in the obligation of national co-financing, reducing it to a maximum of 10% of the project submitted, especially in the countries with the greatest financial difficulties, which focuses on investment in public services, support for production, the creation of jobs with rights, the eradication of poverty, social inequalities and all kinds of discrimination, including gender. the promotion of peace, cooperation and development aid, and a sharp reduction in military and foreign representation expenditure are also essential. the report proposes a 5% increase in the current community budget, although it opposes the freezing of the eu budget after 2013, as advocated by some member states. but this suggestion of an increase means that the next multiannual financial framework (financial perspectives) 2014-2020 would represent only 1.11% of eu gni, compared to 1.06% foreseen for 2013.
in writing. − many member states are currently making difficult budgetary adjustments, so the defence of the eu budget must be very well justified. the eu budget must deliver the highest level of european added value (eva), be soundly managed and leverage public and private resources as much as possible. the eu's response to these challenges is the europe 2020 strategy. it is a strategy that should help europe recover from the crisis and emerge stronger through job creation and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i agree with the rapporteur that 'the europe 2020 strategy should be the political reference for the next mff and that it should reflect the ambitions of that strategy'. the priorities for the next multiannual financial framework should therefore be grouped around the following themes: knowledge for growth and jobs, natural resource management and sustainable development, cohesion for growth and jobs, citizenship and a global europe.
in writing. − the new multiannual financial framework is crucial for the full implementation of the 2020 strategy and, in general, for providing the conditions for sound development, which responds both to the problems faced by the different european citizens and to their expectations of improving their lives. in this context, i welcome the author of the report's proposal for a seven-year multiannual financial framework, in line with the 2020 strategy, subject to mid-term review in defence, at least: of the maintenance of the eu budget, with particular emphasis on the cap and cohesion policy; of greater flexibility, all the more necessary as the financial constraints are real, and also in favour of greater democratic accountability, so that the european funds are real levers for development projects with sustainable capacity. in this context, it is important that regions which have already left objective 1 should be able to undergo an intermediate phase which gives strength to the development they have already shown to be capable of, rather than being abruptly abandoned, jeopardising the progress achieved in the meantime.
in writing. − the eu's multiannual financial framework is an opportunity to make strategic choices for the future. in fact, at a time of deep contraction in the action of the states, the strengthening of the community budget represents an act of confidence in the common project and of strengthening action at supranational level. in fact, there are a number of challenges facing the states which can only be solved effectively at community level.
in writing. − europe 2020 is the european strategy to respond to the new global challenges facing the eu and its various member states, and it is important to structure the economic and financial conditions that will guide its applicability in the period 2014-2021. this report aims to contribute to the definition of the multiannual financial framework (mff) after 2013, by providing for an increase of 5 percentage points in the budgetary envelope compared to the current mff, the maintenance of the funds for cohesion and agriculture and a financial reinforcement of the areas of research, development and innovation, energy and transport. i am voting in favour of the report because i regard the strategic content as positive and, above all, because the budget is in line with the objectives set out in europe 2020. strengthening economic governance and the importance of cohesion policy are some of the areas i would like to emphasise in the pursuit of a smarter, more sustainable and inclusive europe. i think it is important to create an intermediate category for regions whose gdp per capita is between 75 and 90% of the eu's gdp, thus contributing to greater equity at regional level. however, i would like to stress that this new category should not prejudice the most disadvantaged regions in the allocation of community funds.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the hungarian constitution, but that we should be concerned about the hungarian constitution. one is the discussion about the content of the constitution, and the other is the discussion of the discussion. that is to say, whether or not this parliament or any institution outside hungary itself has the right to pronounce on the content of the hungarian constitution. as regards the discussion of the content, we know that there are many matters of concern to us in parliament, in the specific committees which have discussed this document or, for example, in the venice commission. the issue of non-discrimination... mr szájer tells us that it is not true that discrimination against, for example, gender or sexual minorities is not covered, because there is a reference to all kinds of discrimination. well, that reference, in my view, is too vague and leaves too much latitude for conflicting decisions in the courts. it should be discriminated against in the constitution, as is the norm in european countries, as has been the norm in the most advanced and progressive democracies. the same applies to the fetus, to the protection of the fetus, or, for example, to the checks and balances of the hungarian republic itself. but then there is the discussion of the debate, and the debate on the legitimacy of this issue being raised here in parliament must also be fought very clearly. because, on the one hand, constitutions are not impervious. it must be said that where there is a violation of fundamental rights, the 500 million european citizens expect the european institutions to take action. whether that violation is by a law or by a constitution or by a regulation is irrelevant. where there is a violation of fundamental rights, it is outside the treaties. secondly, the explanation that because of cultural differences a constitution can be, say, outside criticism is pure constitutional relativism. it can't be like this. the fact that a constitution violates the spirit and the letter of the treaties, if that were the case, would also be violating the sovereignty of the other 26 countries that have agreed to be in a european union with that country which might violate the treaties. so it's a question of sovereignty for all of us. and i just want to take this opportunity to say one thing. the two-thirds majority, which is often called for here, and which, by the way, comes from 50% of the votes and not from two-thirds of the votes cast by hungarian citizens - that is two-thirds of the members, but only 50% of the votes - serves one purpose everywhere, namely that the constitution should be the subject of a broad social consensus. the hungarian authorities at this time used the two-thirds majority for exactly the opposite: to exclude the opposition and to make the constitution the subject of a great deal of dissent in society. you may be following the two-thirds rule to the letter, but you're violating its spirit. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would encourage you, mr stoyanov, to read the treaties of the union, the very rules of procedure of this house, which say that we, being elected by european citizens, must represent our own member states and the citizens, all 500 million citizens, of the european union. and we are mandated by these citizens to respect and enforce the fundamental treaties of the european union, which protect the rights of its citizens. it is very simple: both i and mr stoyanov have the right to speak on behalf of the 500 million european citizens as long as we are mandated to do so in this house, which is the home of the citizens.
the european union is an experiment made up of experiments: the euro zone, this parliament itself, the schengen area and various other instruments are experiments. the problem is that politicians are often much less humble than scientists. scientists are the first to recognize when an experiment didn't go as they hoped it would. in the case of the european arrest warrant (eaw), we now know that it has problems and raises doubts. it is to commissioner reding's credit that she has had the candor to say that yes, that there are problems and doubts with this mandate and that there are proportionality tests that must be passed when mandates are issued, which should not be applied automatically without a longer and more discriminating look from a judge. so the solution should not be to abolish the european arrest warrant, which is clearly useful. we want a rapist or a murderer not to be able to cross the border and be free. but the european arrest warrant must be complemented by effective defence instruments for the defendant, such as the presence of a lawyer and the right to translation, which baroness ludford has already dealt with in her report, but also and very crucially with the assessment of detention conditions in european prisons. it is not the same, and let us not be deluded or deluded, to be imprisoned in a prison in country a or in country b in europe. it is very important that these conditions be evaluated and that the european commission work very hard to evaluate the conditions of detention so that they are harmonised and so that a european arrest warrant can be applied with more confidence.
the european arrest warrant was established by a decision in 2002 and has so far, as the commission points out in a recent report, proved to be an effective instrument in the fight against crossborder crime, organised crime and terrorism. however, there are imperfections in the way the system works: there is a possibility that its reputation and effectiveness may be undermined by reports of its use for interrogation instead of prosecution and punishment and in cases of minor offences. it therefore appears appropriate and urgent that the council take appropriate measures to ensure that the disproportionate use of the european arrest warrant is curbed in practice. in addition, it is appropriate to ensure effective respect for procedural rights, that is to say that persons sought under a european arrest warrant have an effective right to legal assistance in both the issuing and executing states and that criminal justice standards and prison conditions in the european union do not create a situation of distrust between the judicial systems of the member states. only then can we speak of the effectiveness and success of this instrument at european level.
madam president, a few very brief notes on this case. the experience of the practical application of the environmental impact assessment procedure, despite the positive aspects it reveals, shows us that it can and should be improved. further attention should be paid to the analysis of the cumulative impacts of projects, whether of the same or different types. you look at the tree too often, you lose perspective on the forest. the dynamic and cumulative nature of man's actions on nature needs to be understood more fully. the post-evaluation phase should also be given further attention she's often neglected. it is important to assess the extent to which the expected impacts have materialised, the effectiveness of mitigation or compensation measures, if any, and the extent to which they have been implemented or not. public authorities in the field of the environment have a key role to play here and must be properly equipped to carry it out. finally, the transparency of the procedure, public participation and scrutiny are of decisive importance in order to ensure, as far as possible, the transparency, quality and independence of the study.
madam president, commissioner, i am addressing myself directly to the proposal you have come here today to present to parliament and i am telling you, quite frankly, that i think we have the right, some of us, to be disappointed with this proposal, because the proposal that is being presented is not only weak but has a lot of gaps. i think this is a european issue - not a question of the states that have nuclear industry and those that do not - of the whole of europe, and europe desperately needs good news. and i, frankly, must tell you that one of those good news is to reassure the citizens that we are taking care of their safety. when these tests are carried out in the way that the commissioner has put it, i.e. a first phase is carried out by the parties themselves, a second phase is carried out by the states which defend those parties and a third phase is carried out by the partners who are genuinely interested, i wonder if the result will not be to say that all nuclear power stations are in very good health and are recommended. we know that this is not the case, and that is why i very much hope that there will be serious consequences and that we can tell our citizens that we are looking after their safety, and not just pretending to do so.
in writing. - as regards the european parliament's response to the situation in sudan following the 2011 referendum calling for independence for south sudan from 9 july, i believe that the motion for a resolution tabled by the epp group is the most appropriate one, as i believe that it takes a better approach to the political situation facing the country and to relations with other african countries.
in writing. the referendum in sudan sought to put an end to the widespread violence between the people of the north and the people of the south. the results of the referendum today make clear the will of the people of south sudan for independence, which has been repeatedly expressed for many years. my party has been following the issue, and in particular the darfur issue, for several legislatures, and was the promoter of the winning nomination of sudanese lawyer salih mahmoud osman for the 2007 sakharov prize. the award was intended to make the glaring scandal of genocide in that country more visible and to recognize the peaceful work of those who, against all odds, had not given up fighting for peace, solidarity and human rights. unfortunately, osman's award was not enough to impress upon the international community the desirable sense of urgency to address the repeated and serious human rights violations in sudan. i hope that both sides will be able to respect the agreement before and after the separation, build two peaceful countries, lift the people out of poverty and promote good neighbourliness. and the union can help to make that happen.
in writing. − the final results of the referendum on self-determination in south sudan on 9 january 2011 overwhelmingly confirmed the determination of the electorate to create an independent state. the referendum, the results of which were announced by the south sudan referendum commission and corroborated by the sudanese government, was considered by international and eu observers to have been fair. i therefore advocate respect for the results of the referendum as an expression of the democratic will of the people of south sudan and call on north and south sudan to actively engage in promoting democratic governance and establishing lasting peace, security and prosperity in both countries. i consider the provision of external aid to be very important and therefore welcome the council decision of 23 may 2011 to allocate eur 200 million for development cooperation with south sudan in order to contribute to the autonomy of local communities and to address the basic needs of the population and the lack of human resources and infrastructure.
in writing. - as we warned at the time, kosovo's independence set a serious precedent for imperialist intervention in state-building, artificially and in accordance with its geostrategic interests of access to and control of markets, natural resources and labour. the case of south sudan is in every respect similar to that of kosovo. a referendum was held, financed and promoted by various powers, with only the part of the country that wanted independence, as it should be, but without the rest of the country's population having a say. in addition to all this, the southern part of sudan contains large oil reserves which are essential for international capital. the current situation of renewed conflict in sudan and the region as a whole and the dispute over the definition of the border make it clear that the artificial creation of this country will not solve any of the existing problems or improve the living conditions of millions of sudanese, but will rather aggravate contradictions and conflicts. after the great imperialist powers have carved up the african continent in their own interests, all indications are that a process is under way in south sudan which will lead to more war and suffering for the already massacred african populations.
in writing. - the conflicts in sudan, particularly in the darfur region, have claimed many victims over the years, particularly among the most disadvantaged. we hope that the referendum will bring an end to the conflict and that it will definitely lead to a lasting peace process. the eu will have an important role in the future developments in the region and cannot relinquish its important role in pacifying the region.
in writing. the results of the referendum in sudan clearly indicate the will of the peoples of south sudan for independence, as they have been demanding for several years. the epp has followed the issue, and in particular that of darfur, through several legislatures, and was the promoter of the winning candidacy of the sudanese lawyer salih mahmoud osman for the 2007 sakharov prize. the referendum was aimed at ending the violence of the northern populations against those in the south of the country. it is hoped that a new chapter will be opened at this stage and that two peaceful countries will be built. the eu can and should play an active role in this regard, in particular by helping to lift people out of poverty and promoting good neighbourliness.
in writing. − between 9 and 15 january 2011, a majority of the south sudanese people voted in favour of the creation of an independent state. as is well known, this is an area of the world continually ravaged by conflicts which threaten the possibility of large sections of the population enjoying decent living conditions. in the light of these new developments, parliament called on the new authorities in south sudan (its independence will be declared on 9 july 2011) to make efforts to establish the essential foundations for the establishment of a democratic state based on the dignity of the person. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i welcome all the efforts being made to strengthen and deepen good relations between the eu and other economic powers. in the case of the russia-eu relationship, i welcome the achievements already made in terms of a common space not only of economic cooperation but also of shared values. i believe that the motion for a resolution on the eu-russia summit tabled by the ppe group is the most appropriate one in the present context.
in writing. - the cross-eyes of europe and russia have always been marked by mutual admiration and simultaneous fear. on the european side, there was a general sense of amazement at the size of russia's territory, population and military power and the fear arising from its expansionist action. for russia, european technical and scientific progress has been emulated since the time of peter the great, but at the same time it has been feared as potentially dissolving the soul and the way of being russian, and as a threat to its territorial integrity. these trends have not abated, but rather have been exacerbated by the cold war. the road russia has taken towards a liberal-based pluralist democracy has seen ups and downs, but it is undeniable that it has been the same since the days of the iron curtain. however, it is useless to deny that much remains to be done in this respect, and that the european union and the russian federation share not only a common historical, cultural and religious heritage but also interests and challenges which coincide and which justify a rapprochement at the most diverse levels. the european union must continue to work to make this convergence possible and fruitful.
in writing. − russia is a permanent member of the un security council, sharing with the eu the responsibility for maintaining stability in the world. the challenges related to the middle east, libya, iran, terrorism, energy security, climate change and the financial crisis will be best addressed through cooperative relations with russia. however, three years after the conflict with georgia, russia still does not respect the agreements of 12 august and 8 september 2008 on the withdrawal of its forces from the occupied georgian provinces of south ossetia and abkhazia, and does not ensure free and full access of the european union monitoring mission to its territories. i therefore call for the eu and russia to intensify negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement based on the mutual interdependence of the eu and russia. this agreement should be legally binding and comprehensive, and should cover all areas related to democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the protection of the rights of minorities.
in writing. - as usual, the interests of the major european economic and financial groups are at the forefront of this resolution. it is in this context that we should read the pressures (also usual, on several other countries) on russia to join the world trade organization, to promote a level playing field for business communities on both sides and to promote trade liberalisation in the global economy by facilitating foreign investment and abandoning any protectionist measures. it is the undoing of the old, repetitive, neoliberal, meddling european union. in this case, however, in addition to access to investment and markets, the issue of access to and control of energy sources and flows, as well as other raw materials, particularly rare earths, for which a serious shortage problem has been raised in the eu, is a central concern. this calls for close cooperation on the supply of rare earths and raw materials, especially those considered critical. the security aspects, including the installation of the missile defence shield, should also be emphasised. it is recalled that romania, a member of the eu and nato, has already expressed its willingness to host this system - a threat to russia's security and to peace in europe.
in writing. the european parliament's majority is once again demonstrating its traditional neoliberal and meddling positions on relations between the european union and russia. the interests of economic and financial groups are at the forefront of the agenda, pressing russia to join the wto, to promote a level playing field for business communities on both sides and to promote trade liberalisation in the global economy, with russia facilitating foreign investment and abandoning any protectionist measures. access to and control of energy are therefore fundamental and therefore require access to markets, infrastructure and investment. there is also some desperation when russia is asked to cooperate closely on the supply of raw materials and rare earths, especially those considered critical. and then finally, there is the hypocrisy. russia is called upon to engage in a deeper comprehensive dialogue on security issues, including the deployment of the missile defence shield, when an eu and nato member state, romania, has already expressed a willingness to host a system that is a clear threat to russia's security and to peace throughout europe. the united states itself has not guaranteed that it will not.
in writing. − this resolution on the eu-russia summit provides for more ambitious trade relations, a new partnership and cooperation agreement and visa liberalisation, but moscow must give guarantees of improving the human rights situation in the country by ending politically motivated court decisions, lack of press freedom and the occupation of georgian provinces. at this time, we call on the eu and russia to use this summit to intensify negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement and to resolve the last remaining issues concerning russia's accession to the wto. another important aspect to be taken into account is the dialogue on further visa liberalisation, recalling the commitment to the long-term abolition of visas for travel between the eu and russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution and stressed that russia will always be a very important partner of the european union, and that it is therefore necessary to create strategic cooperation, sharing not only economic and commercial interests but also the objective of close collaboration in europe and at international level. i hope that this cooperation will be based on the principles of respect, trust and solidarity.
in writing. − europe is a set of states that share a common matrix and this is a point to be taken into account when looking at eu-russia relations, relations between europe's most important political union and the largest european state. in short, an indispensable partner for the union, not only economically but also politically. the union must therefore strengthen its ties with its most powerful neighbour by advocating trade facilitation between the two states (which in itself leads to political rapprochement) and by strengthening the affirmation of the values which are part of its genetic code.
in writing. − deceptive commercial practices by business directory publishers affect mainly small businesses and therefore have substantial negative consequences for the sustainability and development of economies. in view of this, and given the fact that this phenomenon is constantly occurring throughout the union, i welcome the motion for a resolution which is being tabled, which seeks to deal with such activities.
in writing. - misleading advertising and unfair commercial practices undermine consumer confidence and thereby damage the internal market. it is therefore essential that european legislation protects consumers and businesses from such practices. as regards the frequent and harmful misleading practices in business directories, i welcome the revision of the applicable legislation to put an end to misleading practices by business directory publishers, in particular by creating a blacklist of misleading practices by business directories.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not misled by the media. unfortunately, the directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising is not only failing to deliver its intended results, but the victims are mainly the elderly, small and medium-sized enterprises and even charitable organisations. these are companies which are very aggressive in their tactics, which are unscrupulous predators whose actions must be stopped. as these practices cross borders, it is very difficult to bring those responsible to justice. in addition, there is no 'blacklist' of these fraudulent companies, which would help in prevention, and these practices continue to be verified with the knowledge of the national authorities. european law must protect the citizens of europe. we cannot allow these companies to move with impunity from one member state to another, and even outside the eu, taking advantage of the principle of free movement of persons and goods throughout the schengen area. it is a very timely proposal and deserves my full support. the victims are waiting for practical results and i hope that the commission will take the necessary measures to put an end to this situation.
in writing. - as mentioned in the resolution, the european parliament received more than 400 petitions concerning widespread deceptive commercial practices used by directory publishers affecting thousands of companies, mostly small businesses. these are practices that generally have a significant financial impact. in general, the deceptive commercial practices in question consist in attracting companies, as well as professionals and non-profit organisations, for free registration in a business directory. but then the signatories discover they've signed a contract with expenses. furthermore, directory publishers are often based in a different member state from their victims, making it difficult for victims to seek protection and/or justice from national authorities. the committee on petitions therefore regrets that directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising, which applies to business-to-business transactions, appears to be either insufficient to provide effective remedies or is inadequately applied by the member states. the european parliament, in the resolution now adopted, calls on the european commission to analyse the problem and seek a solution, which has earned our support.
in writing. − the internal market is undermined by misleading advertising and unfair commercial practices. we must therefore legislate to protect consumers and businesses from this kind of practice.
in writing. − this european parliament resolution of 9 june 2011 on misleading practices in business directories warns the commission to accelerate its activities in revising and improving the directive and other relevant legislation on this subject in order to end as soon as possible misleading practices used by business directory publishers, in particular by specifically blacklisting misleading useful practices used by business directories.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat fraud and corruption, and calls for the eu to take action to combat fraud and corruption. on the one hand, because consumer confidence is essential for the proper functioning of the economy; on the other hand, and above all, because it is a practice that must be prohibited by law. this is a point which, because of its importance, has already merited community legislative intervention. however, in view of the results that are now known, it is necessary to call on the commission to monitor the application of directive 2006/114/ec and to examine its limitations with a view to its improvement.
mr president, i would first of all like to express my regret at the delay in making available the portuguese versions of the resolutions this afternoon. some of them are not available at the moment and i would therefore like to make a very strong protest. as regards the situation in madagascar, the european union can support a process of reconciliation but must do so without interfering or interfering in matters on which only the malagasy people can decide. the european union in particular should not interfere by taking part in the conflict. it is in the interests of the malagasy people and not of any of the parties to the conflict that all efforts must be made. the efforts made by the southern african development community to resolve the conflict and find a political solution to the crisis in the country should be valued and pursued. we, for our part, wish to reaffirm the need to respect the ability of the malagasy people to choose and determine their own future.
author. − mr president, europe stands right against capital punishment. it should be abolished and the eu, particularly the high representative and the upcoming polish presidency, and all the member states, must firmly demand that the us exclude the death penalty as an option in the first military commission trial for a guantánamo detainee. the case of the saudi citizen abd al-rahim al-nashiri must set the standard. not only would it be a disgrace to the us human rights record to put him on death row, but it could be totally counterproductive in the fight against terrorism. president obama is committed to bringing to an end president bush’s outrageous legacy of running over international law in the name of national security. president obama has yet to deliver on his promise and to close guantánamo – an area where eu member states could and should have assisted him more. but congress should also help him and press him to reverse this decision to reinstate the military commission system, as it offers no guarantee of a fair trial, and it must also reverse the decision to keep in indefinite detention detainees against whom no charges are brought. the eu must be very clear on this: charge them or release them. mr abd al-rahim al-nashiri has been in us custody for nine years and he claims to have been secretly detained by the cia in a secret detention centre in poland. the upcoming polish presidency of the eu has, therefore, a particular responsibility to bring justice to a man who has been subjected to torture, unlawful detention and now faces an unfair trial before a military tribunal. it is time to set the record right; both in the united states and in europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
author. − mr president, this parliament conducted an investigation into the so-called renditions programme and went to poland and two other countries, including romania, where there were allegations of secret prisons. we now know that something was found in lithuania and a parliamentary inquiry has been set up in that country. we expect nothing less from the forthcoming polish presidency than a proper investigation to establish the truth about these serious allegations.
author. − mr president, i would ask mr preda what he has to say to the fact that, in this parliament this morning, many colleagues including myself heard mr thomas hammarberg, the human rights commissioner of the council of europe state clearly, in response to a question on this matter, that he indeed had corroboration of the serious suspicions of the existence of secret detention centres in poland, in lithuania and in romania, and that he expected investigations to proceed. let me say that i do not have any animosity towards the us. i have only admiration for a us which defends the rule of law and human rights, and for a us that distinguishes itself from terrorists whose aim is indeed to detract from the rule of law and to violate democracy and human rights.
mr president, we are faced with yet another sad example of the double standards so common in this house. what is at stake in this debate is the violation of human rights by the united states authorities, arbitrary and illegal detentions, the denial of the right to a fair trial, the practice of torture and the death penalty. some of these violations were committed with the proven complicity of european union member states which placed their territories at the disposal of the cia. but unfortunately, in the joint motion for a resolution, we do not find a single word of condemnation of the authorities of the united states or of the european countries which have been complicit with them in this process. words that are not lacking when it comes to condemning other countries. in this case, the demands have become requests and the choice is made to highlight, as in the first paragraph of the resolution, the close transatlantic relationship based on common values and respect for human rights. there's that respect. it's unfortunate, but very enlightening. mr president, let me conclude by saying that, more than calling for the closure of the guantanamo base, it would be important to call for the return to cuba of sovereignty over this part of its territory, illegally occupied by the united states.
for the gue/ngl group we are faced with a package which has had last minute changes from the ecofin council, which are not yet translated into the different languages. first, there is only one version - at least i only had access to an english version - which does not allow us to have an accurate reading of what happened. the second point is that we are faced with facts which are too important, with very serious consequences for our countries and our peoples, including the situations which are already taking place here in the european union today, for example in greece, ireland and, as has been announced, portugal. so we think that we need to take a more careful approach to this content. we therefore insist on the need to postpone it until the july vote.
my expectations for the next council are quite low because the european union is divided: instead of decision there is hesitation, instead of solidarity there is selfishness. and that's how europe is going. let us look at the greek case. i shall not speak of portugal, my country, since the new government has just taken office. i therefore wish him the very best for the sake of the portuguese people and europe. let us now turn to greece. greece is not just any country. it has been a full member of the european union for decades and belongs to the eurogroup. it is important to remember that greece was the cradle of democracy. these facts should be enough to make greece more respected by the european union. the greeks bear responsibility for the dramatic situation in which they find themselves, but the european institutions bear no less. the prime minister, papandreo, has done everything in his power to get out of the difficult situation. with great courage and dignity, he has taken the possible and the impossible austerity measures. what is happening to greece may be true for ireland or portugal, for spain or belgium, for italy or france. i ask the european institutions: how can the countries in difficulty bear the outrageous interest rates that are imposed on them and at the same time reduce the budget deficit and public debt and promote economic growth and create jobs? does it not seem to us that with such a therapy these countries are in danger of dying not of the disease but of the cure? this is not the way. we need a concerted plan to defend the single currency, to combat sovereign debt speculation and to denounce the rating agencies, which are the main culprits in the crisis we are experiencing.
first of all, i would like to say that i expect the european council, especially in the climate of the last few weeks, to take a decision of great responsibility. it is more responsible than the last council, which tried to postpone a problem for three months, simply because of the electoral calendar. i hope that this decision on responsibility will show that economic and financial questions are crucial and decisive for europe, but that economic and financial questions are instrumental to the main purpose of europe, which is to maintain peace. if we approach the problems in such a way that the only thing that happens is that the member states begin to distrust each other, to create distrust between the different member states, to create and stoke differences and rivalries between the southern and northern states, between the central and peripheral states, we will be leading to the decline of the european union. i believe that the question at stake in this european council, regardless of the technical solutions, regardless of the political differences, is whether or not we want the european project to continue to be a valid project for the strategy of peace in europe. i think that's what this is about. what i notice in many speeches by leaders, both from those in troubled countries and from those countries which are paying and contributing countries, is an irresponsible speech which often even appeals to some characteristics of nationalities which are extremely negative. i therefore appeal to the european government leaders to find solutions that will lead europe to a solution.
the serious economic and social situation in several member states of the european union should merit very special attention at the next council meeting in june, a thorough reflection on its causes, the taking on of responsibility for the increasingly neo-liberal community policies, such as privatisation and devaluation of labour, which are causing more social inequalities, greater economic divergences, more unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. unfortunately, indifferent to the struggles of the workers and peoples, they propose to give a permanent character to the neo-liberal policies which have already caused serious crises in greece and ireland and which threaten portugal and other member states. what they want, after all, is to facilitate the way for greater profits for capital, for greater financial speculation, always at the expense of the same people as always: workers, micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, farmers, the populations affected by these reductions in investment and by austerity policies.
in writing. the next european council is of particular importance, with the two major pillars of european integration at the heart of the discussions: - economic integration, in particular the economic governance package, which should allow us to find the best answers to get out of the economic and financial crisis; as well as concrete measures for the countries in the most difficult economic situation, and a clear message of solidarity and responsibility should be sent. - the turbulent period and the great migratory pressures we are going through cannot be used as an excuse to undermine the great achievement of schengen, which is synonymous with freedom of movement. this reality cannot be reversed, but rather protected, strengthened and developed. i hope that this council will send a strong and clear message in this regard, stressing the need for member states to respect and implement the schengen rules correctly and effectively, drawing attention to the need for greater solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states, a strengthening of frontex's powers and resources and the need to create a genuine schengen evaluation mechanism to verify compliance with the rules and border controls and to identify problems, help to solve them and, as a last resort, to sanction member states in the event of continued non-compliance.
in writing. the dramatic effects of such austerity are clearly visible. as many warned a year ago, the greek eu-imf program, beyond the economic disaster and social devastation it has caused, has proven incapable of fulfilling the very objectives that allegedly justified it: the deficit reduction targets have not been met, the country's public debt is now around 170% and the interest demanded by the markets on the public debt has skyrocketed. nevertheless, the european council is preparing a new attack. in addition to the imf-eu programmes, of similar cutbacks, which they want to apply in ireland and now in portugal, they are preparing to step up the attack on greece, intensifying the suffering of its people. these are further steps in this process of interference and extortion, which is openly colonial in character. they want to institutionalize and perpetuate through economic governance the policies and intervention measures associated with the current eu-imf interventions. the 'conditionality' is intended to be permanent, as is external control over national accounts and policies, subject to close scrutiny by the eu's directory of powers. violation (or even the mere threat of violation) of its dictates would be the cause of heavy sanctions. these are unacceptable developments which reveal the backward, reactionary and anti-democratic nature of this european union.
we in the socialist group want to make the cap fairer, more equitable and more appropriate to the times we are living in, when the questions of the legitimacy of aid to society and food security in the broadest sense are more important than ever. we have succeeded in including in this report our main concerns, such as the need to maintain a community cap with adequate financial resources - and i stress this point - we will not accept that financial resources are withdrawn to ensure the implementation of the common agricultural policy, we want a fairer distribution of support between member states and between farmers, the introduction of a new system that is decoupled from production, based on environmental and social criteria, that is, by giving value to employment, targeting the cap to those who are genuinely farmers and creating a specific mechanism for small farmers. i am sure that with the strengthened role of parliament, with the treaty of lisbon, we will be able to translate these objectives, which are for the moment only theoretical, into concrete actions.
this report does not address the challenges of the future that its title suggests, but above all it does not address the serious problems of the present, which is why we have tabled a number of amendments which we consider essential for a fundamental change in the current cap. i would like to stress here the defence of the instruments for regulating markets and the intervention mechanisms which guarantee fair prices for production, farmers and the right of each country to produce. among other examples, we propose the maintenance of the milk production quota system as an essential condition for the protection of producers in the most sensitive countries; we are in favour of maintaining the planting rights for vines and of maintaining aid for alcohol-by-mouth and crisis distillation. we propose the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by community funds, which guarantees a minimum income to farmers in the event of a natural disaster. we have put forward proposals for a socially and environmentally sustainable agriculture, a vision incompatible with the unbridled professions of faith in the market and in competitiveness, as this report does.
the long process of work required for this important report, including the many commitments made, has made it a document, quite broad and balanced, of the various interests to which the cap has to respond. this report is a good guide for legislative proposals, and i congratulate its rapporteur. however, there are some proposals which concern me and which i shall follow with particular care as they develop. i am referring to the redistribution of aid, which i believe should be done uncompromisingly, only within the first pillar and on the basis of purely objective criteria, so that the sense of redistribution is not subverted by means of corrective criteria which will only tend to maintain the current situation. we need a fairer cap, properly budgeted and tailored to the demands made of it. i am also referring to the need to put the battered milk sector on the political agenda of the cap by adopting amendments nos 16, 12 and 5.
in writing. agriculture provides security of supply of affordable, quality food, essential protection of the environment and balanced use of land, and creates jobs, growth and wealth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have made a successful push to change the subsidies so that 80% of the subsidies do not continue to benefit the 20% of the largest farmers, and we have thus helped the small farmers. we are opening the door to a cap which is fairer between the eu countries, between farmers and different production lines, which respects the specific conditions of our regions, which is environmentally friendly and which promotes employment in rural areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would stress this point, which is very important for the azores, given the strategic role played by the sector and the importance which quotas have had so far for milk producers, as no alternative measures to the milk quota system have yet been put forward.
in writing. this is a continuation report on the common agricultural policy, albeit with some contradictions. we therefore take a critical view and propose alternatives which effectively meet the need for agricultural production that guarantees the sovereignty and food security of each country, the problems of family farming and rural development, always taking into account the social importance of the land and those who work it, the specific characteristics of each country and social justice in the distribution of support by member state, by crops and by farmers. the commission has already made a number of proposals, including a clear and unequivocal defence of the system of production quotas, which are adjusted to each member state according to its food needs and which ensure the protection of farmers in countries such as portugal. we want to guarantee every country the right to produce, and we oppose the liberalization of the milk sector and the right to plant vines. we also want to maintain aid for alcohol-by-mouth and crisis distillation beyond 2012 and we advocate the existence of 'market regulation instruments and intervention mechanisms to guarantee fair production prices', thus countering the deregulatory trend of the previous cap reforms.
the rapporteur. - the economic governance package, as part of the stability pact, is not, in the view of the socialist group, the answer that europe needs at this time of structural crisis. he does indeed review the stability pact, but not to change its substance. review it to broaden the requirements and strengthen the sanctions. it would seem more useful to assume that the pact is impossible to fulfil if economies do not grow and, in particular, if there is a crisis. these should be the issues at the heart of the political agenda. we should discuss crisis management policy and instruments in the euro area countries and, another topic, how to prevent the persistently divergent development of the euro economies from destroying the single currency. without resolving these issues, the covenant, as someone has said, becomes stupid. however, there is a glimmer of hope in the package: the new initiative which aims to identify and correct, before they become insoluble problems, the accumulating macroeconomic imbalances, in particular in the euro area. parliament has been willing and able to assume its responsibilities as a co-legislator fully. the text we are about to vote on reflects a broad consensus, which was only possible thanks to a great deal of hard work and a spirit of commitment, and as rapporteur i thank all my colleagues from all the political groups, in particular my shadow rapporteurs, among whom i would like to mention carl haglund, for whom i was also a shadow rapporteur. the trilogue phase was long and laborious, and the agreement, unfortunately not complete, which we have reached is due to the hungarian presidency, in the person of andrás kármán, the commission, in the person of commissioner olli rehn, and all our collaborators. let 's be honest . identifying macroeconomic imbalances is a complex and completely new process. more than sanctions, it is important to identify risks competently, to know whether they are the responsibility of the country or whether they result from impacts coming from abroad and it is important to make correct, timely and feasible recommendations. after the negotiation process, the scoreboard, i.e. the set of indicators negotiated, includes not only financial and nominal indicators but also indicators of the real economy. we also trust that the commission will scrupulously respect the commitment in recital 6a, which involves parliament, alongside the council, in future review processes. the interpretation will also not be automatic, but intelligent through in-depth reviews, which are demanding for the commission, but necessary. the commission's recommendations will have to ensure consistency with all other strategy papers, but the country will have the primary responsibility for the proposed solutions to be implemented. the strengthening of the european parliament's powers, the involvement of the social partners and respect for collective bargaining practices have been ensured. the existence of sanctions, which we would have preferred to have eased but which we had to accept in the context of the commitments, is justified by attitudes of lack of cooperation and not by the inability of the countries to achieve the objectives, and it has, on the other hand, a gradual character which is important. there remains, for an agreement, a key blocking element. the recognition that in an internal market, in a monetary area, it makes sense that the variations observed in the scoreboard indicators should be observed whether they are positive or negative and that deficit and surplus should be observed, even if they obviously do not give rise to similar recommendations. we have all come a long way - individual members, political groups and institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i only hope that the spirit of compromise that has brought us here will lead us to a final agreement.
the rapporteur. - this is another moment of extraordinary work that has been done in the european parliament. i should like to thank corien, sylvie, carl, elisa and vicky, who have been with me as rapporteurs on this whole package of economic governance. i would also like to make a special mention of the various shadow rapporteurs who have helped us in our work and, finally, i would like to congratulate the council on the extraordinary work it has done on this subject, with particular reference to mr andrás kármán, who has been very much involved in this process, and to his commissioner, mr olli rehn, who has also played a valuable part in the whole process. my first word is a word of confidence, for the positive. this package of economic governance must show that europe is capable, that europe is capable of overcoming difficulties, that europe is capable of preventing future problems. that is why i have great confidence in what will happen in the coming days with regard to this legislation on economic governance. it is possible, in the stability and growth pact, which i was rapporteur for in the corrective part, to add the idea of growth to the idea of stability and budgetary discipline. it is possible to innovate with the macroeconomic imbalance procedure. it is possible to go beyond the logic of a simple sanctions mechanism, and that is why the adoption of this economic governance package will lead to more europe and a better europe. this economic governance package has brought us, for example, in relation to the corrective part of the stability and growth pact, a more intelligent application of the same pact: attention to the debt criterion, the introduction of an average for debt reduction, which is done in three years, creating the possibility of flexibility in compliance with the rules; a more detailed and more appropriate list of relevant factors that the commission should take into account in its analysis of the financial situation of the states; the introduction of a transitional period of three years for the implementation of the debt criterion. but there are also other aspects i want to stress here which have to do with other reports. because we have always worked together, i cannot fail to mention the important introduction of a european semester regime in the preventive part, nor to stress that the preventive part is essential and that sanctions should only appear as the last step of this whole procedure: the introduction of symmetry in the analysis of macroeconomic indicators, the possibility of a study on euro-securities by the european commission by the end of this year, an integrated view of sanctions as the last step both in relation to macroeconomic imbalances and in relation to the stability and growth pact and the matter of the introduction of reversed qualified majority in council decisions. all these steps have been taken as an essential role of the european parliament. that is why, at this very moment, we can leave a very clear message to our citizens. the message is this: we are preparing an institutional apparatus to prevent future crises. europe, with this package of economic governance, will be better prepared. europe, with this package of economic governance, is taking an essential step towards ensuring that our economy can grow in a firm way.
this legislative package is not a response to the serious economic and social problems in many countries, which affect workers and populations and which have their fundamental origin in community policies of an increasingly neoliberal character and of greater concentration of financial and political power. the outcome of the negotiations, extending the requirements of the stability pact and strengthening sanctions, demonstrates the political consensus between the three institutions on the course and main guidelines of the european union, and is part of an unprecedented attack on the rights of national parliaments, which are conditioned by the neoliberal guidelines of the european union on their countries' budgets, aiming at austerity policies for workers and peoples, privatisation and reductions in public investment in essential sectors and services. after the negative results already known in greece, ireland and portugal of the struggles of their workers, it was time to go further and not to continue insisting on benefiting only economic and financial groups, especially the european powers. what these legislative diplomas now propose is to perpetuate these measures of interference, of subjugation of peoples and countries, transforming them into genuine protectorates or colonies, and deepening a path that can only lead to economic and social disaster and the implosion of the european union itself. that's why we're against it.
the rapporteur. - i thank everyone for their contributions to this debate, and in particular the summaries by commissioner olli rehn and the presidency of the secretary of state, andrás kármán. i just wanted to point out this: in fact, concessions have been made on both sides and i think we are very close to balance, but i would not like you to forget the important subject of symmetry and asymmetry. it and reverse qualified majority voting are elements which are still in the process of adjustment and there is no conclusion on this yet. i am particularly grateful for the positive contribution of commissioner olli rehn, but if there is to be an agreement, it must be found in a reference above the legal text, above the articles and naturally involving article 32, article 42 and recital 11a, as has been widely discussed. i therefore thank you for not forgetting this subject because it is a subject which, as you have seen, crosses the interests of several members and of various political groups. having said that, i think the new element of macroeconomic imbalance analysis can be useful. i apologize, commissioner, not only for detecting bubble problems in the housing or financial markets, but also for pointing out the importance of what is europe's great problem, which is the tensions generated by completely divergent developments in the economies that make up the euro zone and which are now seriously endangering the existence of a common currency with a non-optimal monetary area, as was very well underlined here today, in particular by mr garcía margallo. what happens is that the european union is imperfect, it is incomplete. what we are doing is not enough to make up for the shortcomings of the european economy at the moment, and i think that the caricature that it is the fault of the lazy, the liar and the wrong person, compared with the virtuous who have no problems, is a deeply dangerous caricature that we all have to avoid because the history of europe has shown us that simple explanations for complex problems never work. so that's the appeal i'm leaving here.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank all the contributions that this debate has brought, and i would like to thank very much, because i did not do so just now, the essential role played in this whole matter by the president of the econ committee, mrs sharon bowles. i would like to stress that this economic governance package brings more transparency to the institutions, brings the best and the biggest role to the european parliament and is a package that is in the line of defence of the euro. all those who believe that the optimal solutions for growth are not here can also point out that they do not know of any state which, with its public accounts in order, does not grow. the countries with budgetary discipline are those which are growing their economies, and we cannot forget that. that is the example we should set here. that is the example that is being followed in my country, for example, at this very moment. i would also like to ask all the members of this house a question: can you say that today this package of economic governance is worse than when it came in? can you say that there have been no improvements by this parliament? you can't because it's not true. today this economic governance package is better than the commission's initial proposal and it is better because of the various contributions that members of this parliament have made here. that is why we must give our citizens a very clear answer. we want a growing european economy. we want stability. we certainly want transparency, but for all that, tomorrow, when we vote, we will have responsibility, we will have to vote responsibly and choose very carefully the partners with whom we are. for my part, my choice is very clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. other the adoption of the economic governance package proves once again that the european project is alive and well and that it is through concertation at 27 that the member states will overcome the difficulties and at the same time face the challenges of the future. the sovereign debt crisis shows that the current supervisory and corrective mechanisms are not sufficient. the measures voted on today are intended to reinforce instruments which have not worked, and their practical application is therefore essential. the debt criterion, as approved in the maastricht treaty, is finally operationalized in this new package and will be put into effect. institutionalising the european semester, strengthening the dialogue between the european institutions and national bodies, the role of parliament and the commission in the whole monitoring process, and greater and more effective supervision are ways of achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive european growth. however, i would like to stress that the success of european economic policy must also be achieved through complementary measures to support investment and growth in the member states. europe must be committed to a common strategy, but it must not forget national particularities.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the proposed framework aims to ensure that member states establish a regulatory framework and draw up national programmes for more responsible management of radioactive waste. it is important that national programmes are clear in the decision-making process. this should be based on a clear division of duties and responsibilities between the various actors. it is nuclear monitoring, control and information which are vital for transparent management. public participation fosters agreement and involvement, leading to the social legitimisation of radioactive waste management strategies. in all areas related to nuclear and new technologies, it is essential that the public be informed of the potential risks. for there to be acceptance there needs to be information, knowledge and a great deal of transparency. i would also stress the importance of the role of international cooperation and joint research and development programmes in the dissemination and exchange of best practice in this area.
the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns. going beyond the 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target should aim to reconcile these objectives. i agree with increasing the reduction effort from 20 to 25%, where the additional 5% corresponds to an increase in energy efficiency. it is, however, essential to find solutions that maintain the competitiveness of european industry. in this respect, i welcome the fact that for the first time there is a broad consensus in parliament for the inclusion of a sectoral approach. this approach will make it possible to reconcile the country-specific greenhouse gas emission reduction target with the holistic and global treatment of each industrial sector, avoiding carbon leakage.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - as regards heading 2, the common agricultural policy, there are three main issues. the first pillar is not a big problem, since it represents about 90% of expenditure and is implemented at about 100%, and we welcome the 3% increase in expenditure for 2012, because it perfectly accommodates the costs of enlargement, which, as we know, in the common agricultural policy is progressive until 2013. the second pillar also poses no particular problems because the appropriations are increased, and that is a positive thing, since we are in the middle of the programming period. with this crisis and the difficulties of some member states in co-financing it is important that we speed up the implementation of this second pillar, which is in the order of 70%. the third question i would like to ask - and this is the one which i think is the most important - concerns certain specific programmes. the fruit and milk distribution programmes in schools and, above all, the programme of support for the most deprived, which, following a court judgment, was substantially reduced because it was considered that funds should only be mobilised to use surpluses collected through the intervention mechanisms. but at a time of such acute crisis as this, solidarity must not only be a political priority but above all an imperative of conscience, and i therefore call on the commission and the council to come forward with legislative proposals to correct this unfair situation.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. these two countries, and others, probably in the future, may be subjected to hellish cycles of bailout policies, where one bailout serves to bail out another bailout. this hell of austerity has clear consequences for the fall in public investment and job creation. i believe that it is absolutely essential in 2012 and 2013 that the european union should be able to have a policy on the financing of the structural funds for these countries, which means not only the advance of the funds under specific conditions that reduce co-financing, that is, national participation in financing that creates jobs and is intended for productive investment. this is an absolutely decisive issue for the next two years.
within the extremely narrow limits of the community budget, which the masters of this european union seem unwilling to alter, preventing any prospect of effective convergence and cohesion, there are fundamental choices to be made. it is unacceptable that, in the face of the very serious crisis affecting the most vulnerable economies of the european union, there should be unreasonable demands for co-financing for the use of community funds, in particular the structural funds. the commission itself acknowledges the low rates of absorption of community funds by these countries, but insists, without requiring co-financing, that the so-called austerity measures imposed on them do not allow them to secure public investment, because they reduce poverty. we have therefore advocated the abolition or substantial reduction, up to a maximum of 10%, of national contributions, so that the community funds can be used to their full extent by the countries facing the greatest difficulties, and so that the money can actually be used by those who need it most and not returned to the coffers of those who need it least. we must put a stop to this unstoppable and relentless dynamic of divergence in which this european union is immersed. fiscal policy plays a crucial role here.
my first words are to commend the work done by the rapporteur, mr georgios stavrakakis, who has done an extraordinary job in identifying future synergies for increased effectiveness between the various structural funds. your report also forms part of this joint debate on cohesion policy, a debate which is of the greatest importance not only because of the substance of the subject but also because of the timing of its discussion. we are in fact now in the process of learning the commission's proposal not only for the new financial perspective but also for the future cohesion policy after 2013. cohesion policy is a fundamental policy for the european union. it is a horizontal policy which, through its principal instruments, the structural funds, finances projects and programmes in the member states, seeking to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various regions. experience has shown us, however, that the fragmentation and complexity of this policy have led to difficulties in terms of efficiency and results. a single strategic framework for the various funds, with an integrated and results-oriented approach, is therefore the starting point for more and better synergies between the various instruments and for enhancing their effectiveness. it is also essential for better coordination between the various sectoral policies and for better efficiency in the application of resources. we must take advantage of the danger of crisis to look for new alternatives. it is true that all these reports under discussion today will present us with enormous challenges, and we know that to meet these challenges we also need a good budget, but we must make a clear distinction between what the budgetary aspects are and what the political objectives are. the political objectives are well known and it is only by affirming these political objectives that we can offer the regions a future. and if that is so, then we must put the budget at the service of the future of the regions and the citizens and not the citizens and the regions at the service of the budget.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. − more than ever, the european union needs a cohesion policy that promotes real convergence and stimulates growth and employment, while also contributing to environmental goals. in view of the current financial situation, in view of the current implementation of the programmes, the commission should make every effort to promote simplicity and flexibility in the rules for the implementation of the programmes and should allow the renegotiation of the co-financing rates within the current regulations, where necessary and requested by the member states. cohesion policy should be results-oriented by setting clear and measurable objectives and result indicators. cohesion policy must also promote transparency and, in order to monitor and ensure that transparency, i would like to see information on the approval and implementation of projects made available in real time by means of a nomenclature of territorial units and more detailed statistics, so that the public can have access to it.
cohesion policy is one of the most emblematic of the european union and the one which best symbolizes the ideal of building the european project, and therefore it requires and deserves the deepening of as many aspects as are currently being discussed and the involvement of so many rapporteurs, whom i congratulate here together. i would like to stress the need for an adequate budget for this policy, with greater flexibility and control, so that the european funds can be real levers for development projects with sustainable capacity. in this context, it is important that regions which have already left objective 1 should be able to go through an intermediate phase, which gives strength to the development they have already shown to be capable of, rather than being abruptly abandoned, jeopardising the progress achieved in the meantime.
cohesion policy is the key policy for the future of the european project. the construction of a common area with an internal market and its own currency requires a certain degree of convergence of its member states and regions in order to function. the current divergences in competitiveness and development asymmetries have inevitably led to the fragilization of the european area and the crisis affecting the euro area. that is why this vital need for convergence absolutely needs a powerful cohesion budget which cannot be weakened to finance other policies. the european union, in order to do more, must have more, and this is achieved by increasing its budget and not by reducing, even if skillfully, the cohesion budget. i therefore ask the commissioner whether the creation of the infrastructure fund and the new innovation policies, which will be linked to cohesion and regional development, which support, without an increase in the community budget, cannot become the trojan horse introduced into the cohesion budget?
in writing. − i approve this nomination for president of the european central bank, taking into account the candidate's competence and his extensive experience acquired over the years.
in writing. - mr draghi's career and cv, but also his audience before this parliament, have shown a deep knowledge and clear ideas about the need to deepen economic governance in the european union and the importance of the stability of the euro for the resumption of growth. given the importance of the post of president of the european central bank, and in view of the above, i consider that mario draghi fulfils all the conditions to exercise with competence and dedication the mandate for which he is now appointed.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and having regard to the consultation and assessment procedures for the nominee, in particular the requirements laid down in the second subparagraph of article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and the need for the european central bank to be fully independent, i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of the president of the european central bank, welcoming the appointment of mr mario draghi.
in writing. − the european central bank (ecb) has as its main strategic objective the maintenance of price stability in the european union, making a decisive contribution to resolving the economic and financial difficulties faced by the member states. a graduate of la sapienza university in rome and a doctorate in economics from the massachusetts institute of technology, mario draghi is governor of the bank of italy, a member of the governing council and general council of the ecb, a member of the board of directors of the bank for international settlements, governor for italy on the board of governors of the international bank for reconstruction and development and on the board of governors of the asian development bank, and chairman of the financial stability board. i am voting in favour of the appointment of mario draghi as president of the ecb because i believe he has a broad academic background and a great deal of professional experience and i support the european institution's strong commitment to fighting inflation, strengthening the single currency and sustaining the sovereign debt crisis. i also believe that the new president of the ecb will adopt a culture of seriousness and rigour and will contribute to the definition of sound and consistent economic policies, sending a strong signal of confidence to international markets.
in writing. - i welcome this report as a clear sign of the european union's solidarity in the face of the crisis facing european citizens at the present time. in this case, the fund will be used to support former employees of general motors belgium and four of its suppliers operating in the motor vehicle sector between june 2010 and october 2010. all redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures, supported by funding totalling eur 9.59 million. this is the third mobilisation of the egf in 2011. so it seems to me appropriate and fair to use the fund in this case.
in writing. - i welcome the work carried out on the basis of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in particular in support of the automotive industry affected by the economic and financial crisis. i also support the decision to mobilise the egf in belgium for workers in the automotive sector through measures forming a coordinated package of personalised services aimed at reintegrating workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i considered it necessary to mobilise the egf following redundancies at general motors belgium and four of its suppliers. the belgian authorities have made a considerable effort by presenting a number of relevant measures concerning assistance in finding employment for the workers concerned.
in writing. − this fund was set up in 2006 to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns to enable them to re-enter the labour market, and was extended in 2009 to include workers made unemployed as a result of the economic and financial crisis. this is the third application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns eur 9.593.931 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for the reintegration into the labour market of 2 834 workers of general motors belgium and four of its antwerp suppliers. the commission considers that the application fulfils the eligibility requirements for the fund and recommends that the budgetary authority approve its mobilisation. it will make sure that it is mobilised thoroughly and quickly so as not to keep the workers who should actually benefit from the fund waiting.
in writing. - this report deals with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf and falls within point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the egf was set up in 2006 to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. on 20 december 2010, general motors belgium, a company in the automotive sector, submitted an application to the egf following the compulsory redundancies of 2 834 workers (main company and four suppliers). the current economic and financial crisis gives this egf a key role in mitigating the social impacts of the bankruptcy of many companies, often triggered by the aggressive economic policies of emerging markets, and this is the third application to be examined under the eu budget for 2011. i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. - requests to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in the event of mass redundancies outside europe are being dealt with. in this case, more than eur 9 million was mobilised for belgium to assist some 2800 workers made redundant in the automotive sector. this is the third mobilisation to be examined under the 2011 budget. therefore, after deducting from the available appropriations the amount currently requested, an amount of eur 489 628 679 remains available until the end of 2011 of the 500 million provided for. although we support this mobilization because it is essential to support these workers, we reiterate our reservations and critical position with regard to this fund because we consider that it would be more important if measures were taken to prevent unemployment in order to avoid it. to do this, the neoliberal policies in force in this eu must be changed, as exemplified by the insistence on deregulation and liberalisation of international trade.
in writing. - while maintaining our critical stance on the european globalisation adjustment fund, because we believe that it would be more important if measures were taken to prevent unemployment in order to avoid it, we voted in favour of mobilising the fund to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of company restructuring or the liberalisation of international trade. in this case, more than eur 9 million was mobilised for belgium to assist some 2800 workers made redundant in the automotive sector. this is the third mobilisation to be examined under the 2011 budget. therefore, after deducting from the available appropriations the amount currently requested, an amount of eur 489 628 679 remains available until the end of 2011 of the 500 million provided for. it is symptomatic that, in a period of worsening social and financial crisis, only a little over 10 million of the funds provided have been used, which in itself shows the need to at least review the rules governing the fund.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 14 april 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the third application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 9 593 931 from the egf for belgium, based on 2 834 redundancies (all potential beneficiaries of assistance) in the main company general motors belgium and four of its suppliers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. with an allocation of eur 500 million for 2011, the commission considers that eur 9 593 391 should be made available to belgium to cope with redundancies at general motors belgium and its four supplier and manufacturing companies in the antwerp region. i believe that the egf should finance active measures to reintegrate the workers into the labour market, enabling them to acquire new skills and adapt them to the new working conditions that the 2 834 workers will have to face. i also believe that the european institutions should speed up the mobilisation of the egf in favour of belgium, by ensuring that the member state integrates workers made redundant as a result of globalisation into working life. i would also like to stress that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of general motors, as it is a complementary support granted by the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. - i approve this report as the new version of the article 51 proposal aims to achieve three important objectives: firstly, to make the provision more understandable and therefore easier to use; secondly, to establish new conditions governing the application of the procedure; and thirdly, to clarify the purpose of the procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it introduces significant improvements in cooperation between committees in the context of a necessary parliamentary reform. the proposal is designed to answer the underlying doubts, in accordance with the principles of equality and cooperation, as to the competence of a committee in the event of a legislative dossier being of significant importance.
in writing. − the european parliament's rules of procedure, as amended in may 2009, now provide for a new procedure for joint meetings of parliamentary committees where a matter is not clearly the responsibility of a single committee. despite the positive outcome of this new rule at regimental level, the committee on constitutional affairs was given the task of clarifying and densifying the provision in question so that it would have a more easily appreciable operational content, in particular in the context of the ordinary legislative procedure. it is clear that the delimitation of the committees' powers has areas of overlap and difficulty to distinguish, so i believe that this clarification is positive and that the new wording proposed will allow for a more coherent use of rule 51.
in writing. - the present proposal for a report concerns certain amendments to be made to rule 51 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (ep), following the setting up of a working party to review the rules of procedure and following a decision by the conference of presidents. on 6 may 2009, parliament revised its rules of procedure and introduced a new procedure for joint committee meetings in rule 51 to streamline procedures for approving matters beyond the remit of a single committee, so that only one report reflecting the position of all committees involved is presented to the ep plenary. the conference of committee chairmen's examination of a draft guideline for article 51 cooperation led to a request for consideration by the conference chair to the committee on constitutional affairs. this proposal clarifies the issues involved and refers the matter to the plenary for approval in the light of the rules of procedure in force. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that the joint committees should be regarded as a committee responsible in the regulation.
in writing. − the conference of presidents in the previous legislature set up a working group on parliamentary reform, which was charged with reviewing the functioning of parliament and suggesting improvements. in this context, a new form of cooperation between committees was developed, established by the new article 51. the new form of cooperation between committees has raised doubts about its application, which have been referred to the committee on constitutional affairs. the committee on constitutional affairs believes that this is not a matter of mere interpretation but an important procedural matter which should be decided by a vote in plenary by the majority applicable to the rules of procedure, namely the majority of members of parliament. i agree with the version presented which makes the standard clearer and easier to use, and i voted in favour of its amendment.
in writing. - i vote in favour of transparency and unhindered access to justice.
in writing. − this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the romanian mep adrian severin, following a case initiated by the national directorate for combating corruption on 21 march 2011. the case arose from information that severin had received €100,000 from the consultancy firm taylors jones public affairs in exchange for its support of an amendment to directive 94/91/ec on the time limit for the repayment of depositors in the event of bank failure. the company also promised him a paid position on its international advisory board. it was later found to be a fictitious company set up by the british newspaper sunday times whose behaviour is reprehensible. however, despite severin's argument that it was all a dummy company that deceived him, that no money was exchanged and the legislation was changed, romanian legislation severely punishes this kind of behaviour. in this connection, and in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs recommending the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of adrian severin, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of mep adrian severin following a criminal case in which he is accused of defamation under the romanian criminal code. there is no indication that the proceedings could be, on the part of the romanian judicial authorities, a case of fumus persecutionis, i.e. of sufficiently serious and precise suspicion that the action was brought with the purpose of harming the member politically. the committee on legal affairs, after considering the reasons of fact and law for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, recommends that the european parliament should waive the parliamentary immunity of adrian severin, considering, however, that until a final judgment is rendered, members are immune from any form of detention, imprisonment or any other measure preventing them from exercising the functions inherent in their mandate. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the current fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of seychelles has been in force since 2006 and that the protocol to that agreement expired on 17 january 2011. a new protocol (for the period 2011-2014) is provisionally applied, which seems appropriate at this stage. the protocol provides for a community contribution of eur 16 800 000 over three years to seychelles, of which eur 2 220 000 per year is to support the seychelles' fisheries sector policy. that's the right amount. i also welcome the fact that the new protocol contains a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations.
in writing. − i welcome the renewal of the protocol to the eu-seychelles partnership agreement as a mutually beneficial agreement for the eu and seychelles as regards their interests in the fisheries sector. this agreement has created 230 jobs on board for the benefit of the people of seychelles, 2 900 jobs in seychelles and 760 jobs in europe in various areas of the sector. this agreement also allows seychelles to develop the means to develop responsible fishing. the new protocol aims to strengthen cooperation between the two parties and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles, since it provides for the provisional application of a new protocol in order not to suspend the activity of european vessels. i welcome the inclusion of a suspension clause in cases of human rights violations.
in writing. − the sustainability of fisheries resources is one of the union's main concerns when concluding or amending fisheries partnership agreements, as is the impact this activity will have on local development. without responsible exploitation of these resources we will be headed for the extinction of fish species and the increase in marine pollution. the new protocol provides more fishing opportunities for european fleets and has resulted in job creation both in seychelles and in europe. i hope that the piracy cases which have been occurring in the region will not adversely affect this activity.
in writing. the report by alain cadec presents a proposal for a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles. the eu signed a bilateral fisheries agreement with the republic of seychelles in 1987. a protocol had been in force since 2006 and expired on 17 january 2011. the european commission, aware of the importance of renewing this partnership and following the mandate given by the council, negotiated with the government of seychelles a new partnership framework based on the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. considering that the main economic activity of seychelles is fishing and tourism, which is an agreement that is beneficial both for the eu and for the republic of seychelles due to the creation of jobs (3 000 in seychelles and 760 in europe) and the control of catches by the existence of a multiannual sectoral programme providing for scientific cooperation and the promotion of responsible and sustainable fishing, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
in writing. − this fisheries protocol guarantees the possibility for several member states' fleets to fish in the seychelles eez. it includes five portuguese surface longliners. the renewal of this protocol is intended to support the sustainability of the member states' long-distance fishing fleets, a fleet segment which has been particularly affected by the crisis in the fisheries sector in recent years, an objective and concern which we naturally share. however, there are still some doubts, which we cannot fail to point out, and which are common to other fisheries partnership agreements, as to the effectiveness of the stated objectives of cooperation for the sustainable development of the sector in the third country concerned and as to the sustainability and control of the fishing effort. these are questions that need to be clarified in the future. we note that fishing opportunities have been halved and the cost of licences has increased by eur 40 000 for tuna seiners, despite the fact that the number of tuna seiners covered by the agreement has increased.
in writing. - this fisheries protocol guarantees the possibility of fishing in the seychelles eez by several member states' fleets, including five portuguese surface longliners. we agree with the renewal of this fisheries protocol, which is important to ensure the survival of the member states' long-distance fishing fleets, a segment of the fleet that has been particularly affected by the crisis in the fisheries sector in recent years. however, given that the agreement is valid for three years and that the fishing opportunities have therefore been halved, we are somewhat concerned about the increase in the cost of licences - by eur 40 000 - for tuna seiners, even though there has been an increase in the number of tuna seiners covered by the agreement. we also shared the rapporteur's concern about the problem of piracy in the indian ocean, which is increasingly affecting tuna fishing. for this reason, the partnership agreement provides for the possibility of applying a pro rata temporis payment to compensate for losses suffered by shipowners who are forced to leave the indian ocean if they feel that their safety is seriously threatened.
in writing. − on the basis of the mandate given to it by the council, the commission, on behalf of the european union, negotiated with the republic of seychelles the renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of seychelles. following these negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 3 june 2010, as amended by the exchange of letters of 29 october 2010, covering a period of three years from the date of adoption of the council decision on the signing and provisional application of the protocol and beyond the date of expiry of the protocol in force (17 january 2011). this agreement is mutually beneficial to the eu and seychelles: on the one hand, it makes a substantial contribution to the stabilisation of the european canned tuna market by granting fishing licences for tuna, and also by promoting the creation of 760 jobs in europe; on the other hand, thanks to the sectoral support of the financial contribution granted to the fisheries sector, seychelles is increasing its capacity in fisheries management and fisheries surveillance. i believe that this document serves the interests of both parties and i therefore recommend that it be adopted.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the current fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and são tomé has been in force since 2006 and that the protocol to this agreement expired on 31 may 2011. as such, it is logical that this new protocol with são tomé should be concluded on 15 june 2010 for the period 2011-2014, for which the european parliament has to give its consent. the protocol provides for an annual community contribution of eur 682 500 for são tomé, of which eur 227 500 is to support the fisheries sector policy of são tomé and príncipe, which i think is appropriate. i also welcome the fact that the new protocol contains a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations.
in writing. - i welcome the renewal of the protocol to the eu-são tomé partnership agreement as it is a mutually beneficial agreement for the eu and são tomé as regards their interests in the fisheries sector. the fisheries agreement with são tomé and príncipe can help support the viability of the eu tuna sector in the atlantic ocean by providing a stable medium-term legal framework for eu vessels and the sectors that depend on it and by helping to maintain the continuity of the fishing areas covered by agreements in the gulf of guinea
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe, since it provides for the provisional application of a new protocol in order not to suspend the activity of european vessels. i welcome the inclusion of a suspension clause in cases of human rights violations.
in writing. the draft council decision concerns the conclusion of a new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of são tomé and príncipe. the new protocol is considered to be beneficial to both parties and could in particular benefit the stability of the european tuna sector. i hope that the citizens of santomé, with whom portugal shares history and language, will derive tangible benefits from the proper application of the partnership agreement and will be able to diversify their activities and experience real progress and development. i hope that the joint committee will meet more regularly so that both sides can closely monitor the implementation of the agreement. a final word to the rapporteur on his work.
in writing. the report by mr capoulas dos santos presents a proposal for a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe. in 2007, the european council adopted regulation (ec) no 894/2007 on a fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe including a protocol setting out the conditions for fishing and the financial contribution thereto, which expired on 31 may 2010. the european commission, aware of the importance of renewing this partnership and following the mandate given by the council, negotiated a new protocol, which was signed on 15 july 2010 and whose entry into force is subject, under the treaty on the functioning of the eu, to the approval of the ep. i am therefore in favour of this proposal for a recommendation, since it is a protocol that serves both parties and promotes responsible and sustainable fishing.
in writing. − this fisheries protocol guarantees the possibility for several member states' fleets to fish off são tomé and príncipe until 12 may 2014. under this agreement, portugal has three licences for surface longliners, and the number of vessels has decreased compared to the previous agreement. in view of the current crisis in the sector, we consider it important that the fee charged to shipowners has not changed from the previous agreement, remaining at eur 35, despite a significant increase in the reference catch per tonne: from 25 tonnes for tuna seiners and from 10 tonnes for longliners. however, an assessment carried out during the period of the previous agreement showed that the average annual catches in tonnes have been below the reference tonnage. according to this assessment, and to reflect the trends of recent years, there has been a decrease in the reference tonnage. it was also found that the use by longliners has been falling short of the fishing opportunities, which led to a decrease in this segment in the current report. as in other cases, concerns remain about the effectiveness of the objectives in the field of development cooperation... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − this fisheries protocol guarantees the possibility for several member states' fleets to fish off são tomé and príncipe until 12 may 2014. under this agreement, portugal has three licences for surface longliners, and the number of vessels has decreased compared to the previous agreement. we are pleased that the fee charged to shipowners has not changed from the previous agreement, remaining at eur 35, despite a significant increase in reference catches. however, an assessment carried out during the period of the previous agreement showed that the average annual catches in tonnes have been below the reference tonnage. according to this assessment, and to reflect the trends of recent years, there has been a decrease in the reference tonnage. it was also found that the use by longliners has been falling short of the fishing opportunities, which led to a decrease in this segment in the current report.
in writing. − the negotiation and conclusion of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) meet the overall objective of maintaining and safeguarding the fishing activities of the european union (eu) fleet, in particular the long-distance fishing fleet, and the signing of this document is essential for the pursuit of the cfp's external policy objectives. in the interests of both parties, the european parliament in its recommendation identified certain aspects of institutional communication which should be improved, in particular: the transmission by the european commission to parliament of the conclusions of the meetings and work of the joint committee provided for in the agreement, the sectoral fisheries programme referred to in the protocol and the results of the annual evaluations. parliament also called for a full report on the implementation of the agreement and for it to be kept informed during the future renegotiation process so that it could in due course influence the negotiating process in a positive way. this recommendation deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − the negotiation and conclusion of fisheries agreements fulfils the general objective of maintaining and safeguarding the fishing activities of the european union fleet. i support the adoption of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe on the development of relations with a third country in a spirit of cooperation and partnership, with a view to enhancing the sustainable exploitation of resources outside eu waters, while taking into account economic, social and environmental issues. the new protocol provides for a financial contribution for access to são tomé and príncipe's eez corresponding to fishing opportunities of eur 2 047 500 for a period of three years. the fishing opportunities for 28 purse seiners and 12 surface longliners will be authorised and may be reviewed.
in writing. − i approve this report, welcoming the provision which aims to ensure that trade between both parties develops progressively, within a high level of customs security, and which includes a set of rules to ensure that the agreement and the eu acquis remain in line with this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu-andorra protocol extending to customs security measures the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the ec and andorra, as it favours trade between the two parties while ensuring a high level of customs security and consistency between the agreement and the community acquis.
in writing. the principality of andorra is historically linked to the european union and has links with it in a wide range of areas. the customs union concluded in 1990 has increased these already strong and natural links. the proposal is designed to amend the community customs code and its implementing rules, while respecting customs security measures for goods exported to or imported from non-member countries. the proposal establishes a special regime between the union and andorra which at the same time allows trade between the two to flow normally without compromising the necessary security of the goods traded. to that end, they need to ensure equivalent levels of security in their respective areas of jurisdiction. i hope that the trade relations between the union and andorra will bear fruit and that the proposal will make a significant contribution to this objective. a final word to the rapporteur on his work.
in writing. - mr vital moreira has presented us with a proposal for a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union (eu) and the principality of andorra extending to customs security measures the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters signed between the two partners on 28 june 1990. the purpose is to add a new title (title ii-a) covering agricultural products to the existing agreement. considering that this is another positive step in the already extensive relations between the eu and the principality of andorra towards possible integration into the internal market and that, in addition to the inclusion of rules to safeguard the consistency between the agreement and the community acquis, it aims to ensure customs security and normal trade relations between the two parties, i welcome the adoption of this recommendation, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. - the purpose of this protocol is to extend the customs security measures of the agreement between the european union and the principality of andorra. the eu-andorra agreement has been in existence since 1990. however, it is now decided to extend it to agricultural products under this provision on customs security measures. the agreement thus ensures that bilateral trade between the two parties proceeds smoothly and with a higher level of customs security. it also provides for the abolition of the obligation to declare goods in advance, provided that the eu and andorra guarantee a level of security equivalent to that provided for by the respective acquis in their respective territories. however, despite our vote in favour, we believe that the interests of capital movements should not be promoted at the expense of safeguarding the rights of the people and of workers.
in writing. the protocol aims to extend the customs security measures of the agreement between the european union and the principality of andorra. the eu-andorra agreement has been in existence since 1990. however, it is now decided to extend it to agricultural products under this provision on customs security measures. the agreement aims to ensure that bilateral trade between the two parties runs smoothly and with a higher level of customs security. it also provides for the abolition of the obligation to declare goods in advance, provided that the eu and andorra guarantee a level of security equivalent to that provided for by the respective acquis in their respective territories. at the time of the review of this agreement, we stress once again that the interests of capital movements must not be promoted at the expense of safeguarding the rights of the people and of workers.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol extending to customs security measures the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european economic community and the principality of andorra. both the committee on international trade and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection recommend the conclusion of the said protocol. the conclusion of this new agreement is another step towards better cooperation between the principality of andorra and the eu. it is important for both parties to ensure that the agreement continues to follow the evolution of the eu acquis in this area. this concern was expressed in the agreement. i would stress the need, as the rapporteur has said, for the commission and the principality of andorra to continue their discussions in order to take account of and, if necessary, adapt the bilateral agreements to the implementation of the modernised customs code, which is currently under way and which should be completed in the european union within two years.
in writing. - i approve the proposal so that parliament approves the conclusion of the agreement. european and canadian companies could save millions of euros a year by faster, simpler and therefore less costly product certification procedures and mutual acceptance of certification results. furthermore, the agreement constitutes a net benefit for the european union as it will establish the mutual acceptance of the results of the certification procedure in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. the agreement will not only make the canadian and european markets more competitive, but also safer for passengers and freight transport by promoting cooperation in all areas of certification, inspection and enforcement.
in writing. − the existence of mutual acceptance of certification results, while ensuring faster, simpler and less costly product certification procedures, will bring enormous economic benefits to both european and canadian companies. i support this agreement because i believe that, in addition to the economic advantages it brings, it will also make it possible to establish a mutual acceptance of the results of the certification procedure in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. it is thus based on mutual trust in the certification systems in place both in the eu and in canada, providing for obligations and methods of cooperation so that the importing authority can issue its own aircraft product, component or equipment certificate without having to repeat all the assessments carried out by the exporting authority. it also benefits the airlines, as they can use the repair and maintenance facilities approved by the other party. it is thus a major step forward towards more competitive but also safer markets, as closer approximation and cooperation in the areas of certification, inspection and enforcement should ensure a higher level of safety for passengers and freight transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i approve the conclusion of an agreement which will benefit european and canadian airlines and companies by saving millions of euros through faster and simpler certification procedures and will ensure a higher level of safety for passengers.
in writing. − ensuring aviation safety and harmonised rules for the various market players is the central objective of this agreement between the european community and canada on civil aviation safety (hereinafter referred to as the 'agreement'). the agreement is all the more important as the aeronautical industries of these two areas are relevant, since the adoption of common rules will make it possible to avoid duplication of procedures (whether testing, evaluation or certification). it should also be noted that the mutual recognition rule (and the rules on joint inspections and investigations and on the exchange of safety data) allows for efficiency gains by all actors. last but not least, the agreement will allow for significant savings not only for the aviation industries but also efficiency gains for the airlines themselves who will now be able to use the repair and maintenance facilities certified by the parties to the agreement.
in writing. − economic and political relations between the european union and canada have a long history and have given rise to several bilateral agreements in these areas. on 6 may 2009, a civil aviation safety agreement was signed between the european union (eu) - then the european community and canada, similar to the air safety agreement with the united states of america, aiming at enhancing cooperation between the two parties and reducing duplication of checks on all checks and tests. i voted in favour of this recommendation and welcome this strengthening of relations between the two parties. the agreement will make both the canadian and european markets more competitive and safer, as it represents a significant step forward in setting international standards for civil aviation safety. it also represents an added value for airlines as they will be able to use the repair and maintenance facilities of the other party provided that they are approved in advance.
in writing. the agreement under discussion in this report covers certain aspects of civil aviation safety and will replace the six existing bilateral agreements between the member states and canada, which include product certification. as the rapporteur expressly states, the intention to create a fully open aviation space between these two countries - a subject on which we have raised known reservations - does not fall within the scope of this agreement and should be the subject of a separate recommendation. the main objectives of the agreement are to minimise duplication of assessment, testing and controls, while ensuring that there are no significant regulatory differences, and to allow the eu and canada to rely on each other's certification systems. to this end, the requirements and regulatory procedures of both parties will progressively approximate. this agreement should generate savings for european and canadian aviation companies through simplified, faster and thus less costly product certification procedures and the mutual acceptance of certification results.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the main objective of the agreement is to minimise duplication of assessment, testing and controls, while ensuring that there are no significant regulatory differences, and to allow the eu and canada to rely on each other's certification systems. this agreement should generate savings for european and canadian aviation companies through faster and thus less costly simplified product certification procedures and mutual acceptance of certification results. the rapporteur also said that the agreement could increase safety by bringing together regulatory and enforcement authorities to cooperate in all areas of certification, inspection and enforcement, with a view to ensuring the highest level of safety for passengers and freight transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and canada on civil aviation safety. similar to the air safety agreement with the us, the main objectives set out in the negotiations were to minimise the duplication of assessments, tests and checks and to allow the eu and canada to rely on each other's certification systems, which will be achieved through the progressive approximation of the two sets of requirements and regulatory procedures, as well as through regular consultations between the parties to assess the adequacy and continued capacity of the regulatory bodies involved in the implementation of the agreement. these measures could save european and canadian businesses millions of euros a year by making product certification procedures faster, simpler and therefore less costly. the mutual acceptance of certification results is a major benefit for the eu as it will establish the mutual acceptance of the results of the certification procedure in all areas of airworthiness for all member states.
in writing. − this ec-canada agreement on civil aviation security follows the horizontal agreement already approved by the european parliament in march 2011. canada is a strategic country for european states in this area and is currently the eu's 11th most important trading partner, as both sides have world-leading aircraft, engine and space electronics production plants. the objectives of this agreement are to facilitate trade in goods and services by removing technical barriers and to reduce the duplication of regulatory assessments, tests and checks in the areas of airworthiness through the application of the principle of reciprocity. the creation of an open aviation space brings economic advantages to both parties. further simplification and reduction of administrative costs for european and canadian companies will bring more economic competitiveness and safety for passengers. as an alternate member of the committee on transport and tourism, i voted in favour of this report, but i would stress again that the european parliament must assume its new powers, enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, and be informed throughout the process of negotiating international agreements.
in writing. − the report highlights, as a key prerequisite for achieving the overall objectives of cohesion policy, sound financial discipline and transparency in the allocation of funds, thereby contributing to increased accountability for the strategic objectives. further efforts are needed to avoid excessive delays and to enhance enforcement performance. i stress the need for more synergies with other policy instruments. cohesion policy should continue to help the poorest regions catch up and adapt their objectives to current and future challenges, delivering smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 cohesion policy programmes because i believe that cohesion policy needs to be adapted to the challenges facing europe's regions, supporting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. − cohesion policy remains one of the most important pillars of the european union's policies and is fundamental to achieving the objectives of the eu2020 strategy. cohesion policy must therefore continue to firmly support all european regions, contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. at a time when europe is experiencing an unprecedented economic, financial and social crisis, which is affecting in a very particular way some already more fragile regions, it is essential for the future that cohesion policy continues to play its fundamental role for balanced and sustainable development.
in writing. - the document in question, which was written by mr miroslav mikolášik, follows on from the commission's communication entitled 'cohesion policy: strategic report 2010 on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programmes', which is the first rigorous assessment of the implementation of the approximately 450 operational programmes adopted by the european commission. the european union's (eu) cohesion policy is part of a framework of european solidarity that encompasses the 27 member states and their 271 regions and aims to end the economic and social disparities within the eu. in view of the economic and financial crisis in europe, this report is of particular importance as it should be an instrument for reallocating and maximising the cohesion funds. in fact, and in view of the low implementation rates, it is necessary to create mechanisms to enable member states with more difficulties to use the funds allocated to them, otherwise they will be obliged to return these funds to the eu, which will distribute them among richer countries. i welcome the adoption of this report, which has my support, not only for the corrective measures it points to but also for the architecture of the future cohesion policy it suggests.
in writing. − the report acknowledges the accumulation of problems in cohesion policy, starting with the late conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the legislative package and resulting in a delay in the implementation of national strategies and operational programmes. these factors are combined with the insufficiency of the amounts planned for the period 2007 to 2013, in particular in view of the enlargement of the european union, and the use of only 27,1% of the resources available in the current period, as well as the maintenance of national co-financing and the bureaucratic burden. this situation exposes some of the errors and shortcomings of cohesion policy, which we have always denounced. countries like portugal are moving further and further away from the promised economic and social development to approach the community average. national co-financing remains a factor hindering access to the funds, particularly for countries with weaker economies, which continue to see many millions of euros returned to the countries most benefited from the main eu policies, notably emu and the internal market, increasing rather than narrowing disparities between countries.
in writing. − this report recognises a number of problems in cohesion policy, starting with the late conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the legislative package, resulting in a delay in the implementation of national strategies and operational programmes, the insufficiency of the amounts planned for the period 2007-2013, in particular in view of the enlargement of the european union and the use of only 27,1% of the resources available in the current period, as well as the maintenance of national co-financing at this time of crisis and the bureaucratic burden. this makes clear the errors and shortcomings of cohesion policy which we have always denounced. countries like portugal are moving further and further away from the promised economic and social development and closer to the community average. all this is compounded by the eu's main policies, notably emu, competition in the internal market and the liberalisation of international trade, among others.
in writing. − cohesion policy is a key pillar of eu policies and one of the engines for creating a one-speed europe, as it contributes to improving the socio-economic environment. member states are making progress towards achieving the objectives of cohesion policy, as evidenced by the national reports, albeit with some inherent heterogeneity at state and regional level. the results of this policy are not immediate, it is a long-term mechanism. the full picture of the 2007-2013 programming period will only be visible in 2015, two years after the second strategic report, as some countries have two more years to use all the allocated funding. i voted in favour of this report, which points out, among other things, that in certain areas the selection and effective implementation of projects are hampered by constraints which must be tackled. i would stress the late conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework and the legislative package for this policy, which result in the late implementation of national strategies and operational programmes and the scarcity of public resources available for co-financing in the member states. it is imperative to address these issues if the objectives of the process are to be fully achieved.
in writing. − article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the eu will develop and pursue its action to strengthen its economic, social and territorial cohesion, and has set the eu funds for the period 2007-2013 at eur 347 billion, corresponding to 35.7% of the overall eu budget. i am voting in favour of this report because it provides a credible analysis of the current situation with community funds by showing where €93.4 billion has been spent so far, suggests recommendations and areas for improvement, contributes to the resolution of the economic and financial crisis and highlights good practice and mutual learning at regional level. i would stress that the implementation of community funds is uneven across the member states and it is important for the ec to understand the difficulties that some countries have had in order to take corrective action that actively contributes to a greater uptake of community funds in line with the europe 2020 strategy. finally, i would like to congratulate the member states on the efforts they have made in drawing up the first national strategic reports, actively contributing to greater transparency, flexibility, effectiveness and accountability of cohesion policy funds.
in writing. - i welcome this report, which analyses the needs of urban areas, focusing mainly on two aspects: basic infrastructure and smart investment in infrastructure and services based on technological progress. i also agree with the call for strategic planning principles and the need for more flexible co-financing between the erdf and the esf.
in writing. - it is important to define a european urban policy which should contribute to the sustainable development of urban areas, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity. the european urban agenda includes not only the urban dimension of eu policies, notably cohesion policy, but also the intergovernmental strand of efforts at european level to coordinate member states' urban policies, implemented through informal ministerial meetings. it is important to strengthen the urban dimension in cohesion policy and to promote sustainable urban development, in particular by strengthening and developing instruments to implement the leipzig charter at all levels. at the same time, the dynamism of urban areas must be stimulated through effective and efficient synergies between the different european funding instruments, particularly with regard to research and innovation. it will therefore be necessary to ensure that urban areas in all regions of the eu, as centres of economic activity, innovation and employment, can benefit from the necessary and appropriate support to be able to face the enormous challenges they face, such as the trend towards sub-urbanisation, the concentration of poverty and unemployment, increasing congestion and pollution, etc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european urban agenda and its future cohesion policy, because it stresses the importance of networking cities, sharing best practice and adopting innovative solutions, strengthening the urban dimension of the european territorial cooperation objective and more effectively applying the partnership principle in cohesion policy with a view to more sustainable development of cities, particularly with regard to the modernisation of urban infrastructure and transport networks.
in writing. − one of the most important dimensions of cohesion policy is that which is specifically geared to cities, since it is predominantly urban areas that implement cohesion policy and that it is in them that much of the challenges to be addressed by the eu2020 strategy are concentrated. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. it is also in large urban areas that the main centres of innovation, knowledge and science are located, as well as most of the productive activities that generate wealth and contribute to economic growth. in addition, urban areas also face the greatest challenges in terms of efficient management of infrastructure and transport, which have a direct impact on environmental and energy policies.
in writing. − the european union (eu) cohesion policy is part of a solidarity framework that encompasses the 27 member states and their 271 regions and aims to end the economic and social disparities within the eu. this report, by oldřich vlasák, is intended to follow up the previous one entitled the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period. the role of cities - home to some 80% of europe's population - as sources of wealth creation and poles of social and economic development is unquestionable. however, the problems affecting them (poverty and social exclusion, unemployment, housing, crime, drug use, etc.) are enormous and require increased attention. despite the creation of financial instruments developed by the european commission and the european investment bank such as jeremie, jaspers and jessica, as well as other structural funds, the results have fallen short of expectations. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's recommendations to draw up a comprehensive and integrated financial plan so that the funds are used for projects aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy and not for actions that are limited to consuming those funds.
in writing. - the great contradiction of this report is that it places a high value on cities but forgets citizens. much emphasis is placed on strengthening the eu urban agenda, developing basic physical infrastructure and its contribution to the economic fabric, energy and environmental sustainability through investments based on technological progress, but people are secondary. cities and all their infrastructure are built by people. it is the people who live in them and make their public services in education, health and transport, commerce and industry and their cultural activities work. they should be at the heart of any urban policy. but they are largely the ones who are forgotten by eu policies. in our view, an urban agenda should give priority to a better distribution of the population in the territory of some countries, notably portugal, by alleviating the burden on cities by promoting the rural world and properly remunerated agricultural activity, distributing productive activity across their territory, promoting quality public services in rural areas and cities, combating unemployment and defending employment with rights, promoting wages and pensions and combating poverty.
in writing. the report focuses on a european urban agenda and its future cohesion policy. it places a high value on cities. but a fundamental part of these cities is being overlooked: the citizens. this is a clear contradiction of the report. the strengthening of the eu urban agenda, the development of basic physical infrastructure and its contribution to the economic fabric, energy and environmental sustainability, through investments based on technological progress, is advocated, but people are left behind. well, the truth is that cities and all their infrastructure are built by people. they should therefore be the focus and the object of any urban policy. but they are largely the ones who are forgotten by eu policies. in our view, an urban agenda should give priority to a better distribution of the population in the territory of some countries, notably portugal, by alleviating the burden on cities by promoting the rural world and properly remunerated agricultural activity, distributing productive activity across their territory, promoting quality public services in rural areas and cities, combating unemployment and defending employment with rights, promoting wages and pensions and combating poverty. none of this makes this report.
in writing. − since 2009, the date of the first report entitled the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period, there have been new contributions and developments to this issue. this report aims to build on the previous one by highlighting several aspects of the urban dimension of cohesion policy which the committee on regional development identifies as crucial or problematic for the future cohesion policy, which should become a fully valid and effective policy for eu cities. i voted in favour because of the crucial importance of this subject for the development of small and mediumsized towns. i agree with the rapporteur's warning that the project-to-fund approach should be replaced by the funds-to-project approach. projects should not be designed to absorb the funds available, but to achieve the strategic objectives. experience shows that in many cases project ideas arise on the basis of the availability of funds rather than on the basis of real needs and strategic priorities. combating this must be one of the main challenges of development policies and also of cohesion policy.
in writing. - i consider the european urban agenda to be a policy of unquestionable importance, given that 70% of europe's population lives in cities and that they generate around 80% of the eu's gdp. the 2007-13 period sees €21.1 billion for urban development to be applied to the rehabilitation of industrial sites and polluted land, urban and rural regeneration, clean urban transport and housing. the european urban agenda is about developing the infrastructure and services of cities. cities today face varied and asymmetrical problems, forcing the implementation of differentiated integrated local development models. in this way, and as urban policy is integrated into the objectives of cohesion policy, it should serve as a link with rural areas to enhance inclusive development. cities must have a voice in solving their problems through multi-level governance and the use of the partnership principle. finally, i would stress that the development of integrated strategic planning must be complemented by flexible financial engineering so that national, regional and local authorities are free to implement their priorities.
in writing. - i welcome this report, as it calls for concrete decisions to be taken for future cohesion policy on some key issues, such as strengthening objective 3. in this area, it is important not to leave out the most isolated and outermost regions. the objective of territorial cooperation is essential for the implementation of cohesion policy. i would like to emphasize the european territorial cooperation groupings, which make a significant contribution to cohesion through interterritorial cooperation programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the objective 3 report: future agenda for crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation, as this is essential for the effectiveness of cohesion policy. to stress the importance of the creation of european territorial cooperation groups as a privileged instrument of territorial governance, which responds to the needs of structured cooperation in terms of finances, legal status and governance at various levels.
in writing. - 37.5% of the european population live in border areas, making territorial cooperation, with its three dimensions - cross-border, transnational and interregional - a key policy for the union, helping territories, regions and states to work better together in pursuit of their common objectives.
in writing. - this report, by marie-thérèse sanchez-schmid, deals with objective 3: a challenge for territorial cooperation the future agenda for crossborder and interregional cooperation. objective 3 - european territorial cooperation - can be seen as the poor relation of the structural funds. despite the population of the crossborder areas amounting to almost 200 million inhabitants, this objective is covered by only 2.52% of the cohesion funds. given that eu cohesion policy is part of a solidarity framework that encompasses the 27 member states and their 271 regions and aims to end the economic and social disparities within them, it is essential that the next multiannual financial framework (mff) includes an increase in the funds allocated to this objective, as these are regions with serious problems from the point of view of competitiveness but essential for the sustainability of the territory. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen the territorial cooperation objective by increasing the overall budget from 2.5% to 7% and to adopt measures to simplify the implementation of programmes and the creation of european territorial cooperation groups (etcs) which are essential for the functioning of crossborder governance systems.
in writing. − territorial cooperation has become one of the three pillars of the european union's cohesion policy, succeeding the interreg community initiative. subsequently, article 174 of the treaty made territorial cohesion one of the three strands of cohesion policy, alongside the economic and social strands. this is one of the european union's main priorities. the aim of this policy is to remove physical, administrative and regulatory barriers and to reduce the border effect between territories and regions so that they can face together common challenges, whether they are territorial (services, infrastructure, urban planning and spatial planning) or global (globalisation, climate change), or economic or societal. the report's main programmatic lines, namely the reinforcement of the objective of territorial cooperation through strategic territorial cooperation at all stages of planning and coordinated with strategy 2020, the adoption of a territorial approach for the remaining community policies, the encouragement of the creation of european groupings of territorial cooperation (egtcs), the simplification of the implementation of this policy and the focus on its transnational visibility, justify my vote in favour.
in writing. − since 1986, the objective of cohesion policy has been to strengthen economic and social cohesion between the various eu member states. however, the lisbon treaty and the new eu strategy entitled europe 2020 have defined a third dimension called territorial cohesion which promotes a functional approach to the integrated development of the 271 regions, considered as living spaces for citizens. i believe that territorial cohesion should help to remove the physical, administrative and regulatory barriers between european regions, promote harmonious european development and increased cooperation through joint projects between different regions but with similar development characteristics and objectives. i also stress that territorial strategies must be directly linked to the guidelines for the trans-european transport networks, the strategies for the integrated maritime policy and the europe 2020 strategy in order to build a smart, sustainable and inclusive european space. finally, i fully support the idea that an action plan for the outermost regions (orr) should be drawn up and that multisectoral principles should be established to promote the harmonious development of the ors and to help reduce the territorial disparities with other european regions.
in writing. − i strongly believe that an efficient strategic framework can ensure a common approach and capitalise on the synergies between all the funds supporting the objectives of cohesion policy as defined by the treaties, and thus better serve eu citizens and meet their expectations. this report is aimed at creating such synergies and i therefore approve it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on enhanced effectiveness between the erdf and other structural funds because i believe that the development of an effective strategic framework can ensure a common approach and capitalise on synergies between the various existing funds, with a view to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy as defined by the treaties and thus meeting the expectations of citizens.
in writing. - parliament has been insisting on the need to strengthen the effectiveness of the combined application of the erdf and the other structural funds and an integrated approach to sectoral policies. the need not to waste resources, which is becoming more and more felt in the time of serious crisis we are experiencing, recommends that we try to make the best use of the synergies resulting from the means made available by the structural funds and avoid wasting opportunities due to their excessive tightness. this effort to use the means at our disposal will aim to contribute to improving opportunities for sustainable growth and reducing disparities between regions and facilitating social inclusion and cohesion between regions. this effort will not succeed without a clear prioritization by the union and the member states to avoid the dispersion of funds and to strengthen what is really essential to pursue. the flexibility sought must be accompanied by strict monitoring of the implementation of the funds so that it is carried out with the utmost respect for the rules of rigour and transparency.
in writing. - this report, by georgios stavrakakis, looks at the current situation and the need to bring together future synergies in order to increase the effectiveness of the european regional development fund (erdf) and the other structural funds. for two decades, the structural funds have been invested in the most varied regions of europe and have made a decisive contribution to improving the quality of life for millions of europeans. it seemed to be an inexhaustible source from which the less favoured regions could satisfy their financing needs. the recent economic and financial crisis has brought us to our senses and shown us the consequences of a consumerism that is unrestrained and based on unsustainable investments. in fact, improving infrastructure does not always mean major development. a rigorous evaluation of all ongoing projects and a strategic reorientation of the funds still available in view of the achievement of the objectives set by the eu 2020 strategy in the context of the preparation of the next mff is therefore urgently needed. i support the recommendations in this report to build synergies by creating a strategic instrument covering all the structural funds and targeting innovation and technological development, supporting businesses, especially smes, and reducing administrative costs.
in writing. − the objective of this report is clear: to create a single strategic framework for the erdf and other structural funds, notably the eafrd and the eff, as from the next financial period after 2013, and to coordinate them with other instruments of the eu's external policies. the creation of a single strategic framework could result in the loss of specificities and the diversity of areas and sectors benefiting from it, paving the way for the restriction of the community budget and the reduction of the funds, as the major powers of the eu have advocated. this new framework aims to foster competition and strengthen the integration of eu policies to deliver the europe 2020 strategy, favouring large economic and financial groups and the concentration and centralisation of capital. for our part, we continue to advocate the development and complementarity of these funds to defend and promote production in each country, to combat unemployment and promote employment with rights, to create and distribute better the wealth created, to defend quality public services, to combat poverty, to defend small-scale coastal fishing, family farming and small and mediumsized farmers.
in writing. − this report advocates the creation of a single strategic framework for the erdf and other structural funds, notably the eafrd and the eff, as early as the next financial period after 2013, as well as their coordination with other instruments of the external dimension of eu policies. it should be borne in mind that the creation of a single strategic framework could lead to the loss of specificities and the diversity of areas and sectors benefiting from it, paving the way for the restriction of the community budget and the reduction of the funds, as has been advocated by the major powers of the eu. this new framework aims to foster competition and strengthen the integration of eu policies to achieve the europe 2020 strategy, favouring the same old things: the large economic and financial groups and the concentration and centralisation of capital. for our part, we continue to advocate the development and complementarity of these funds to defend and promote production in each country, exploiting their potential to combat unemployment and promote employment with rights, create and distribute better the wealth created, defend quality public services, combat poverty, defend small-scale coastal fishing, family farming and small and medium-sized farmers.
in writing. - the current economic situation should be seen as an opportunity to reformulate what can be done more efficiently, with increased legitimacy, and to fight tenaciously against any waste of time and resources. the need to consolidate public budgets forces us to be more innovative and to seek a greater impact of the available funding. this report, which i voted for, reflects on the present situation and the need for future synergies to improve effectiveness between funds. the coordination of these funds must be improved. the eu's cohesion policy instruments are managed under a common framework ranging from strategic guidelines to payments and reporting. however, coordination between cohesion policy instruments and others should be increased. i agree with the creation of an integrated planning and implementation system covering all policy areas. the virtue of integrated planning lies in the understanding that complex problems must be tackled simultaneously in a variety of ways. unemployment cannot be solved by training the unemployed alone, but also by policies to create jobs, to support smes or start-ups.
in writing. − the question of greater effectiveness and synergies between the various structural funds is of great importance in the context of the debate on future cohesion policy. the future cohesion policy must be simplified and more integrated. the future approach should therefore be based on a common strategic framework for the various structural funds in order to ensure a common perspective and optimise the synergies that can be created between the various funds. only with an integrated approach, focused on results and in line with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, will it be possible to speak of enhanced effectiveness between the various structural funds. as shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i believe that we must involve regional and local authorities in the development and implementation of partnerships and concentrate thematically on priorities and the financial resources to be allocated in the future. the regional dimension must be present and contribute to highlighting the european added value of cohesion policy. as regards financial instruments, the possibility of using financial engineering instruments should be strengthened, and provision should be made for member states and regions to use multi-fund programmes.
in writing. − on 29 september 2010, the commission presented a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the european union and the euro area. this reinforcement must be linked to the reinforcement of the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken, i.e. with the closer and timely involvement of the interested parties, as well as of the national parliaments and the european parliament. this report, which i supported, argues that the corrective action plan should set out a set of specific policy measures that the member state concerned has implemented or intends to implement and should include the timetable for them. equally important is the possibility, as part of the corrective measures, for the european commission to be able to carry out enhanced surveillance missions in the member state concerned to monitor the implementation of the plan. finally, i would stress the power of the european parliament, either on its own initiative or at the request of a member state, to invite the president of the council, the commission and, where appropriate, the president of the eurogroup to appear before the competent parliamentary committee to discuss the decision declaring non-compliance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report as i agree that when carrying out its economic reading of the scoreboard under the alert mechanism, the commission should pay particular attention to developments in the real economy, including economic growth, employment and unemployment performance, nominal and real convergence within and outside the euro area, productivity developments and their relevant drivers such as r&d and external/internal investment, as well as developments at sectoral level, including energy, which affect the performance of gdp and the current account.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance. i support the report by mrs elisa ferreira on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances. i congratulate the commission on the forecast scoreboard which has already produced good results in the areas of the internal market and the area of freedom, security and justice. i hope that the european parliament will be able to contribute in a qualified way to the definition of the indicators of the scoreboard by the commission. the number of indicators is expected to be quite high, but they should focus mainly on factors relevant to macroeconomic imbalances. i agree that it is possible to call for structural reforms in surplus countries, but more attention should be paid to deficit countries.
in writing. - it is very important to stress the importance of this regulation, which, being entirely new in the community legal framework, is absolutely innovative in its content and in what it is intended to do: identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the union. following the lessons of the recent crisis, this report is distinguished by its desire to ensure that, in the interests of a strong and balanced economic union, the monitoring and coordination of economic policies adopted in the various member states takes precedence. this report aims to create an alert mechanism for possible future imbalances that may occur in a given member state, allowing for their immediate and effective correction. finally, i would like to congratulate my compatriot elisa ferreira on her hard work and dedication, which was not always easy but clearly worthwhile.
in writing. − i believe that the commission should have a stronger and more independent role in the enhanced surveillance process with regard to member state specific assessments, monitoring, missions, and recommendations. i am in favour of the community method and therefore agree that the role of the council should be limited to the steps leading to the application of possible sanctions. the most important thing, however, is that we move towards economic governance with a strong preventive and corrective component so that these sanctions are avoided. the prevention and correction framework and the overall economic governance framework should promote growth and employment by strengthening the union's competitiveness and social stability. i therefore agree that the surveillance of member states' economic policies should be extended beyond budgetary surveillance to prevent excessive macroeconomic imbalances and vulnerabilities in the union. it is also important to analyse internal imbalances including private and public debt, its evolution and origin (internal or international) and the country's overdue payments, in particular from the public sector and large multinationals to small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. the report is part of a package of six legislative documents on so-called economic governance. the rapporteur and her group intend to distinguish it from the other five, but the truth is that it is a very revealing example of the contradictions that exist in this european union. in fact, it is not enough to identify macroeconomic imbalances in the member states if there are no community policies alternative to the present ones, based on solidarity and economic and social cohesion, to address these imbalances. the pious, well-intentioned statements on the defence of employment and labour and social rights are in profound contradiction to the defence of the maintenance of the stability pact (which they have already called stupid), including the strengthening of sanctions against the countries with the most vulnerable economies, victims of neoliberal policies, and the pact for the euro plus. the rapporteur and her group also insist on recognizing that the policies they have advocated and supported are the fundamental cause of the crisis, that the creation of the single currency, in the image of the deutsche mark, was based on wrong assumptions, which only served the interests of economic and financial groups in the stronger economies. if this continues, we will inevitably see a further deterioration of the economic, social and political situation.
in writing. - this report is part of the six-volume package on economic governance and reveals the contradictions in the european union. the truth is that it is not enough to identify macroeconomic imbalances in the member states if there are no alternative community policies of solidarity and economic and social cohesion to address such imbalances. it is not enough, therefore, to make declarations of good intentions on the defence of employment and labour and social rights if, instead of ending the stability pact and the euro pact and replacing them with a genuine pact for social progress and development, they prefer to broaden their demands and to strengthen sanctions against countries and peoples who are victims of neoliberal policies. until european leaders recognize that their policies are the root cause of the crises that persist, we shall be witnessing a deterioration of the economic, social and political situation, which will inevitably lead to further social tensions and new conflicts with unforeseeable consequences. what will happen if they do not recognize that the creation of the single currency, in the image of the deutsche mark, was based on wrong assumptions that only served the interests of strong economic and financial groups. and that this is the fundamental cause of the worsening of the crises... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − on 29 september 2010, the commission presented a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the eu and the euro area. the package comprises six proposals: four deal with budgetary issues, including a reform of the stability and growth pact (sgp), while two new regulations aim to detect and address emerging macroeconomic imbalances in the eu and the euro area. this draft opinion concerns the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies. it is agreed that the sgp, both in its preventive and corrective aspects, has failed and needs to be reformed. i agree with the amendments to the commission's original proposal which have won a large majority of support in the european parliament. i believe that it is important to take account of the experience gained during the years of the previous eec and, on the other hand, to take account of the increased democratization of economic governance by strengthening the role of the european parliament in the whole supervisory process. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this is the only report which seeks to counter the dominant trend in the whole economic coordination package. my abstention underlines and enhances this aspect. the report by mrs ferreira deals with the prevention of major macroeconomic imbalances. in it, deficit and debt are no more important than trade surpluses and deficits, employment and unemployment, or the qualitative challenges that can ensure a sustainable growth strategy. this kind of comprehensive coordination, based on a panel of varied indicators, which identifies imbalances at an early stage, is sensible. what prevents me from voting in favour of this text is the fact that it is the poor relative of a coordination which continues to have its alpha and omega in deficit and debt.
in writing. − the stability of the euro area in particular and of europe as a whole requires the restructuring of prevention and surveillance instruments to correct macroeconomic imbalances. financial consolidation is key to correcting the mistakes of the past and allowing european economies to grow sustainably, not by relying on public and external debt, but by promoting employment and competitiveness. this report focuses on the panel of macroeconomic and structural statistical indicators, which allow comparisons between member states, reflecting structural and short-, medium- and long-term trends. the inclusion of new indicators and the establishment of lower and upper thresholds for them, which will be symmetrical where necessary, will allow them to act as alert levels to avoid the current financial rescues carried out by the commission and the imf. this new symmetrical smart system will trigger stricter supervision, in-depth assessment by the commission, the ep, the council and the ecb, and the development of recommendations on further reforms and corrective plans. at a crucial time for the european project, i consider it essential that all the european and national authorities be involved so that the necessary measures can be taken in advance.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has exposed and increased the need for coordination and improved surveillance of economic policies in economic and monetary union (emu). these recent experiences have also revealed gaps and shortcomings in the current coordination system and in the existing supervisory procedures. the crisis has dramatically reversed the favourable conditions in which the economic and financial sector operated until 2007, with most member states having to undergo a process of consolidating their accounts in order to reduce public debt. for most countries, debt reduction is a key issue, given the negative effects it has on economic incentives and growth due to higher taxes and risk premia. this report advocates that the commission and the council should make a comprehensive and balanced assessment of all relevant factors, in particular their impact as aggravating or mitigating circumstances on the assessment of compliance with the deficit and/or debt criterion. the council will require the member state to meet its annual budgetary targets which will allow for a minimum annual improvement of 0.5% of gdp. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i agree that when the ratio of government debt to gross domestic product (gdp) exceeds the reference value, it is considered to be significantly declining and approaching the reference value in a satisfactory manner within the meaning of article 126 (2) (b) of the treaty if, in the preceding three years, the differential with respect to the reference value has been reduced by an average of one twentieth in the last three years as a reference value, on the basis of changes over the last three years for which data are available.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance. i support the excellent report by mr digo feio on the acceleration and clarification of the application of the excessive deficit procedure. i welcome the call for more speed in the process for the european commission to make its recommendations public. i agree with the proposal that the european parliament should have the right to invite the representatives of the member states and i regret that the council has not accepted it. i support the possibility that the commission may be allowed to carry out additional surveillance missions and that the ecb may be associated with such visits.
in writing. − the rules on budgetary discipline, compliance and enforcement should be strengthened, in particular by giving a much more relevant role to debt levels and developments and to sustainability in general. i therefore agree with an assessment of the sustainability of public finances, including the level of indebtedness, the debt profile (including duration) and its dynamics. in this context, private debt cannot be overlooked, as it can represent an implicit contingent liability for governments. the public and private debt control framework should support long-term growth, taking due account of the counter-cyclical role of fiscal policy and contributing to the improvement of investment prerequisites and the deepening of the internal market which is essential to ensure the proper functioning and strengthening of economic and monetary union. it is also important to set up a european monetary fund, managed in accordance with the union's rules and financed in particular by revenue from fines, in order to safeguard the financial stability of the whole euro area.
in writing. - this report is part of the legislative package on economic governance and is one of its key components. this is the regulation on speeding up and clarifying the excessive deficit procedure. the report concludes by stressing the need for a comprehensive and integrated solution to the euro area debt crisis, given the failure of the fragmented approach used so far, and the recognition of the euro area crisis, and the same type of monetarist and neoliberal policies and criteria that led to it. it reiterates and deepens the real stick imposed on the member states, without looking at the causes of the problems or at alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. so instead of moving forward with a pact for social progress and development, as we have advocated, based on solidarity and genuine policies of economic and social cohesion, we insist on deepening the sgp and now on the pact for the euro. the application of sanctions and the payment of fines by states which do not comply with the impositions are extended and strengthened. this is an unacceptable interference which puts the member states subject to this excessive deficit procedure in a position of genuine submission, of a colonial nature, to the european powers.
in writing. − it is one of the key pieces of legislation in the economic governance package. this is the regulation on speeding up and clarifying the excessive deficit procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. so instead of moving forward with a pact for social progress and development based on solidarity and genuine policies of economic and social cohesion, it insists on deepening the ecp and the pact for the euro. it extends the application of sanctions and the payment of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them. this is an unacceptable interference which puts the member states subject to this excessive deficit procedure in a position of genuine colonial submission to the european powers. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − within the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion on the commission proposal amending the regulation on speeding up and clarifying the application of the excessive deficit procedure was also voted. i voted in favour of this report because it essentially follows the concerns of the rapporteur, particularly with regard to the following points: 1) the implementation of budgetary surveillance should be subordinated to the eu's overall objectives; 2) the monitoring of the rules of budgetary discipline must take account not only of serious economic crises but also of social crises which may have an impact on the financial situation of governments; (3) fines imposed on member states that do not comply with the recommendations should be used to support the achievement of the eu's long-term investment and employment objectives and not distributed among member states not subject to any excessive deficit procedure, as proposed by the commission, and (4) regular consultation of social partners and increased involvement of national parliaments should be the necessary prerequisites for a credible and transparent supervisory framework.
in writing. − recent events have shown that the various stability and growth pacts have not worked as intended, and that several member states have now faced serious problems in meeting their obligations and risked increasing their public debt. the document adopted today in plenary is part of a wider package of measures which constitute the proposals of the european economic governance. this report analyses the issue of excessive deficits in the member states and addresses the concerns of the european union as a whole not only in relation to deficit-filling but also in relation to public debt, in order to ensure that procedures are put in place to correct the breach early and thus prevent corrective action from taking place too late. the implementation of the measures is fundamental for the euro area. with the outcome of the negotiations and the progress made in the last few months in the trilogue, i hope that we can count on a more rapid publicity of the commission's recommendations and a genuine economic dialogue. i hope that the possibility of revising the recommendations in the light of economic developments will also contribute to its success, provided that it does not call into question the fiscal sustainability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i agree that member states should establish an effective, credible, medium-term budgetary framework which facilitates the adoption of a budgetary planning horizon of at least three years in order to ensure that national budgetary planning is in line with a multiannual budgetary planning perspective. member states should establish appropriate coordination mechanisms between the sub-sectors of general government in order to ensure the comprehensive and consistent coverage of all those sub-sectors in budget planning, in the country-specific numerical budgetary rules, and in the preparation of budget forecasts and in the establishment of multiannual planning, as laid down in particular in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance. i support the ford report on the requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks. i welcome the fact that the regulation applies to all eu member states. i would stress the need to establish independent monitoring arrangements. i support the possibility of newly installed governments being given the right to update their medium-term budgetary framework to reflect the new political priorities.
in writing. - if we really want to prevent future crises, if we want to create a cohesive and responsible economic union, if we want to pursue a perspective of prevention and correction and if we want to bet on sustainable growth, then, for this package to be complete, it was essential to have this directive. the directive contains a number of essential principles which, when implemented by national governments, will make their fiscal policy rules more transparent, particularly as regards the publication of budget forecasts and performance. i believe that with all that we have achieved now, the union will be increasingly prepared to coordinate and prevent any problems, deficiencies or imbalances in a united way. finally, i would like to thank my colleague vicky ford for all her hard work and dedication in the completion of this report.
in writing. − this report, by colleague vicky ford, deals with the legislative proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure, included in the economic governance package adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010, and aims to promote macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances towards a stronger and more sustainable eu. the current economic and financial situation in several eu countries demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the growth and stability plans. it is not enough to control the public deficit. public and private indebtedness must also be avoided. now it is necessary to introduce mechanisms to improve competitiveness and to restore public finances. member states will be prevented from running excessive deficits. the coordination and monitoring measures to ensure respect for budgetary discipline will be strengthened. i voted in favour of this legislative amendment because i believe that it is essential for the restoration of citizens' trust in the institutions and for sustainable growth in the eu that these measures are implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a directive laying down the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states and constitutes one of the most serious attacks on their sovereignty. budgetary choices, which are fundamental in determining the course to be taken by each country, taking into account its specific characteristics and the interests and will of its people, are at stake. the situation is particularly serious for the most vulnerable euro area economies, which are considered to be in an excessive deficit situation and may be subject to heavy sanctions. this directive is part of the legislative package on so-called economic governance, which consists of six legislative acts and is a real attack on social and labour rights and on democracy itself. this body of legislation is an unprecedented attack on the rights of national parliaments and, in portugal, on the constitution of the republic itself. the national members are henceforth bound by the european union's guidelines on their country's budgets, which are increasingly neoliberal and are determined, in the main, by the directory of powers which holds the majority of the votes in the council and the european parliament. our vote could only be against.
in writing. - this is one of the reports on the proposal for a directive laying down requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states, constituting one of the most serious attacks on their sovereignty, a situation which will be even more serious for those in the euro area who are considered to be in excessive deficit and who, in addition to permanent monitoring by the european commission, may be subject to sanctions. this directive is part of the legislative package on so-called economic governance, which consists of six legislative acts and is a real attack on social and labour rights, and is also part of the european union's (eu) crusade against national independence and sovereignty. the final agreement between the three institutions - the european parliament, the council and the european commission - is the result of the negotiations, which the council of 24 june will have to confirm, despite the contradictions at european union level. the results of this are an unprecedented attack on the rights of national parliaments and on the constitution of the portuguese republic, whose members are bound by the european union's increasingly neoliberal guidelines on their country's budgets. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − also within the legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion was voted on concerning the establishment of requirements applicable to the budgetary frameworks of the member states. i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key points: 1) the general objective of the proposal must relate to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion; 2) rules should be established to ensure improvements in national budgetary frameworks in the context of the european semester for policy coordination; (3) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should ensure not only that the financial planning of the member states is based on realistic forecasts, but also that due attention is paid to the sustainability of their social protection systems, including health and pension systems; and finally, 4) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should also be designed to encourage member states to achieve the eu's employment and growth objectives.
in writing. - while recognising the importance and need for independent statistical authorities capable of producing reliable and credible data on the macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts of a member state, i voted against this report because its punitive logic fits perfectly into a wider package which i oppose for the reasons already set out in the reports of this economic coordination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the council, acting on a recommendation from the commission, may decide to impose a fine on a member state which, intentionally or through gross negligence, misrepresents public deficit and debt data relevant for the application of articles 121 and 126 of the treaty and of protocol (no 12) annexed to the treaty, and that the fines referred to must be effective, dissuasive and proportionate to the nature, gravity and duration of the infringement. i agree that the amount of the fine should not exceed 0.2% of gdp. the interest received by the commission on deposits made in accordance with article 4 and the amount of fines imposed under articles 5 and 6a shall constitute other revenue within the meaning of article 311 of the treaty and shall be assigned to the european financial stability facility.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance. i support the goulard report on the effective application of budgetary surveillance, although i acknowledge that the rapporteur has in several proposals gone beyond the scope of the original proposal, making it very difficult to get along with the council. i welcome the provision of fines in cases of fraudulent statistics, so as to penalise fraud relating to the calculation of the deficit and debt both inside and outside the euro area. i agree that non-euro countries may join this system.
in writing. - in this report, i would like to highlight what i consider to be the most important advance: the possibility of creating a system which is not based solely on the sanctions part of the stability and growth pact (sgp), but which, on the contrary, allows the introduction of real incentives which lead and develop an effective will on the part of member state governments to comply with the rules laid down in the sgp. in this connection, i would like to point out the forthcoming presentation by the european commission of a study on the issue of european debt securities with joint and several liability (eurosecurities). i would also like to highlight the extraordinary work done here, with the institutionalisation of an economic dialogue between the various european institutions, as well as the promotion of the participation of national parliaments and governments in a genuine democratic debate on economic policies. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, sylvie goulard, on her extraordinary work and commitment to getting the most out of this package.
in writing. − this report, by colleague sylvie goulard, is on a legislative proposal, amending council regulation (ec) no 1467/97 on budgetary surveillance in the euro area, included in the economic governance package adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010, and aims to promote macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances in order to achieve a stronger and more sustainable eu. the current economic and financial situation in several eu countries demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the growth and stability plans. it is not enough to control the public deficit. public and private indebtedness must also be avoided. now it is necessary to introduce mechanisms to improve competitiveness and to restore public finances. member states will have strengthened coordination and monitoring mechanisms to prevent gross errors in their budgetary policies which could jeopardise economic and monetary union. because i believe that quick and high-quality solutions are needed in line with the recommendations of the european central bank, i voted in favour of this legislative amendment which, in addition to giving priority to interinstitutional dialogue, strengthens budgetary discipline and obliges each member state or institution to assume its responsibilities.
in writing. - this is another report that is part of the package of six legislative diplomas in the field of economic governance. the integrated view of this body of legislation justifies our vote against each and every one of the reports which make up it. in this case, it is the regulation on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area. the report acknowledges the difficulties and mistakes during the first decade of the functioning of economic and monetary union, but in doing so it does not draw the necessary consequences from them and instead insists on a more robust framework for the commission and council to monitor national economic policies. it also added that these policies should have a particular impact on the development and strengthening of the single market, i.e. more neoliberal policies, more privatisation, more free competition, more policies favouring the strongest at the expense of the weakest. the report insists on the payment of fines by states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them by the strengthened sgp, although, to give cover to the system of sanctions, it also seeks to include a system of incentives. all this without addressing the real causes of the problems or the necessary policy alternatives. this is unacceptable.
in writing. − it is another report in the six-pack of legislative documents on economic governance and is one of the key legislative pieces of that package. this is the regulation on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. but he always adds that such policies must have a special impact on the development and strengthening of the single market, that is, more neoliberal policies, more privatisation, more free competition, more policies that favour the strongest at the expense of the weakest. in other words, it ends up insisting on the same kind of monetary and neoliberal policies and criteria, deepening the real stick imposed on the member states, without looking at the causes of the problems or at alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. it therefore insists on the payment of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them by the strengthened sgp, although, in order to cover the system of sanctions, it also seeks to include a system of incentives. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − within the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion on the effective implementation of budgetary surveillance in the euro area was voted. i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key points: 1) the implementation of budgetary surveillance must always be subordinated to requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment; 2) ensuring adequate social protection and combating social exclusion; 3) strengthening budgetary surveillance through a system of monitoring compliance, not only through a system of fines (sanctions) but also through a system of incentives; and 4) strengthening the role of the european parliament as well as national parliaments in the whole supervisory process.
in writing. - this report provides for member states to make remunerated deposits or pay fines under the preventive and corrective arm of the stability and growth pact. this is a system of early punishment when a system of incentives would be most useful. its logic is perfectly integrated into the overall philosophy of the package in question. for these reasons i am against it.
in writing. − the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), implies the observance of the following guiding principles: stable prices, sound public finances and monetary conditions and a sustainable balance of payments. the aim is to lay down rules governing the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability and convergence programmes in the framework of multilateral surveillance to be exercised by the commission and the council in order to prevent the occurrence of excessive budget deficits and debt at an early stage and to promote the surveillance and coordination of economic policies, thereby supporting the achievement of the union's objectives in terms of growth and employment. the european parliament shall be duly involved in the european semester in order to increase transparency, ownership and accountability of decisions taken, including through economic dialogue. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i agree that, in order to ensure closer coordination of economic policies and sustained convergence of the behaviour of the economies of the member states, the council should conduct multilateral surveillance as an integral part of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, in accordance with the objectives and requirements laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the european parliament shall be duly involved in the semester in order to increase transparency, ownership and accountability of decisions taken, including through the economic dialogue. i agree that the economic and financial committee, the economic policy committee, the employment committee and the social protection committee should be consulted within the semester whenever appropriate and that relevant stakeholders, in particular the social partners, should be involved within the semester on key policy issues, where appropriate, in accordance with the tfeu and national legal and policy provisions.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance. i support the wortmann-kool report on strengthening budgetary surveillance and the coordination of economic policies. i agree with the reversed qualified majority vote which strengthens the role of the european commission by requiring the council to have a qualified majority to overrule the commission's decision. i think it is very important that the economic dialogue envisaged here and the obvious and necessary link with the european semester be established. i welcome the provision that a member state may temporarily deviate from the adjustment path due to force majeure and unforeseen events, which ensures flexibility and realism in the process.
in writing. − two important lessons can be drawn from the recent crisis: the need for sustainable public finances and the urgency of working towards greater coordination of economic policies between member states, with a strong emphasis on prevention. and it is precisely these two points that this report deals with. i would like to stress at the outset the important inclusion of the european semester in this legislative document, which is increasingly providing, in the interests of a strong and balanced economic union, an effective platform for joint political discussion of the budgetary policies adopted by all member states. i stress the vital importance of all eu member states having their public finances in order and the need to adopt increasingly responsible economic policies that ensure sustainability and growth. we need to be responsible. we need to adopt policies of savings, especially in good times, so that we can have the means to defend ourselves in times of greater adversity. i consider this report to be fundamental if we are to achieve ever greater coordination and prevention as a union. finally, i would like to thank my group colleague, mrs corien wortmann-kool, for her exemplary work in negotiating and concluding this package.
in writing. − this report, by corien wortmann kool, is on a legislative proposal on economic governance adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010 on the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies, included in the economic governance package adopted by the commission on 29 september 2010, and aimed at promoting macroeconomic stability and the sustainability of public finances. the enhanced economic governance framework should promote growth and employment, with particular emphasis on developing and strengthening the single market and promoting international trade and competitiveness. strengthening economic governance should be accompanied by strengthening the democratic legitimacy of economic governance in the union, which should be achieved through a stronger involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments in all economic policy coordination processes. the stability and growth pact and the comprehensive economic governance framework should be compatible with and complementary to the union strategy for growth and jobs. i voted in favour of this legislative amendment, the final text of which i hope will be adopted at the july plenary session of the ep.
in writing. - another piece of the legislative package of so-called economic governance. in this case, the aim is to strengthen the monitoring of budgetary positions and the monitoring and coordination of policies. in practice, this regulation lays down the rules governing the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability and convergence programmes, in the context of the multilateral surveillance which the commission and the council want to carry out at an early stage, with the argument of avoiding excessive budget deficits and debt and promoting the supervision and coordination of economic policies. the tired arguments of growth and employment as pressing objectives are being repeated. the result, as we know and have seen, is the opposite. solidarity and economic and social cohesion are no more than empty words, dead letters in the treaties. what prevails are monetary and neoliberal policies which are in the interest of economic and financial groups to guarantee them more profits. as for the people, as the experiences of greece, ireland and portugal show, what they see and suffer is more social inequality, more unemployment and more poverty. we must recognize once and for all that the policies in force, which they now want to deepen, are the fundamental cause of the crisis.
, in writing. − it is part of the six-pack of legislative instruments on economic governance and aims to strengthen the surveillance of budgetary positions and the supervision and coordination of policies. in practice, this regulation lays down the rules governing the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability and convergence programmes, in the context of the multilateral surveillance which the commission and the council want to carry out at an early stage, with the argument of avoiding excessive budget deficits and debt and promoting the supervision and coordination of economic policies. it is always argued that the objective is growth and employment, but since they forget the policies of solidarity and economic and social cohesion, and rely solely on monetary and neoliberal policies which are in the interests of economic and financial groups in order to guarantee them more profits, what we will have, as the experiences of greece, ireland and portugal have already shown, is more social inequalities, more unemployment and more poverty. until european leaders recognize that their policies are the root cause of the crises that persist, we shall be witnessing a deterioration of the economic, social and political situation which will inevitably lead to more social tensions and new conflicts... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − within the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion on strengthening the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies was also voted. i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key points: 1) the eu framework for budgetary surveillance should be extended to include the employment and social dimensions; 2) the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states should be taken into account in the presentation of their stability and convergence programmes and during the evaluation of these programmes; (3) multilateral surveillance of stability and convergence programmes should be conducted as part of the european semester; (4) the stability and convergence programmes of the member states should include information on the consistency of the budgetary objectives of the member states with the eu strategy for growth and jobs, such as the europe 2020 strategy, and in particular with the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment policy guidelines.
in writing. − this report aims to ensure that member states comply with the deficit and debt limits set out in the stability and growth pact. i am voting against it for two main reasons: because the pact it seeks to regulate is responsible for a decade of mediocre growth in europe and because its discipline is based on sanctioning mechanisms which aggravate the problems it seeks to solve. at the very least, this report, and the others in the package, should have had the good sense to put public investment out of the deficit calculations in the name of job creation, the main objective of any economic coordination that is responsive to the concerns of europeans.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that has hit the euro area has called into question the instruments of economic and monetary union and highlighted the harmful consequences of asymmetric shocks and systemic risks in a monetary area that is not considered to be optimal. this report, part of a package of six reports on economic governance in the eu, aims to create preventive and corrective mechanisms to avoid excessive budget deficits and debt. it also institutionalises the european semester by requiring the involvement of all european institutions in which national reform programmes must incorporate eu objectives. i would also like to stress that you intend to extend the mechanism of reverse qualified majority voting in the council at all stages of the procedure for evaluating, examining and monitoring the sgp and the national convergence programmes. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must send a message of stability to the markets through a short- and long-term economic governance strategy. the sovereignty crisis afflicting the eu, in particular the three countries already bailed out, namely portugal, will only be overcome with concerted decisions and greater involvement of the eu institutions, in particular the ep and the commission.
in writing. − the commission's proposals on improving economic governance are of the utmost importance for the future of the eu and for economic growth. the economic governance framework should therefore be improved, based on greater national ownership of the standards and policies adopted and a stronger framework for the supervision of national economic policies at union level. this report, which i supported, advocates the need for member states to set up accounting systems which cover, in a comprehensive and consistent way, all sectors of public administration. in addition, member states should ensure that their budgetary plans are based on realistic macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts. budget planning should be based on a realistic scenario. in order to support member states in drawing up their budget forecasts, the commission should provide estimates of eu expenditure, based on the level of expenditure planned under the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i agree that within three years of the entry into force of this regulation, and every five years thereafter, the commission will publish a report on the application of this regulation. i agree that this report should assess, in particular, the effectiveness of the regulation, the progress made towards ensuring closer coordination of economic policies and sustained convergence of the behaviour of the member states' economies in accordance with the treaty.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance. i support the haglund report on the implementation of measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances. i regret that the regulation is not also applicable to non-euro area countries which wish to do so. i agree with the reversed qualified majority vote and regret that the council continues to oppose this mechanism.
in writing. - i would welcome the introduction of a sanctions mechanism for the correction of macroeconomic imbalances, along the lines of what is now happening under the rules of the stability and growth pact. we are aiming here, once again, to give less weight to the punitive part and more emphasis to the corrective part. the procedure set out in this report is entirely new in the community legal framework and i believe it will play an indispensable role in the future macroeconomic policies of the member states. it allows not only for greater coordination but also for greater accountability of governments at national and community level. i would also like to stress the introduction of the reversed qualified majority rule in the council when decisions are taken which are essential for the effective operation of this package. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, carl haglund, on all his excellent work and dedication.
in writing. − the regulation on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area is another key part of the economic governance legislative package. this regulation addresses a system of sanctions and the application of fines to states that do not comply with the requirements imposed by the european commission on the basis of delegated acts. we are facing a process of intervention, in which the same monetarist and neoliberal policies and criteria are insisted on, which led to the current crisis, which is particularly severe in the most vulnerable economies. the stick imposed on the member states is being tightened, without addressing the causes of the problems or alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. although the proposal was initially intended to cover only those member states whose currency is the euro, parliament wants it to apply to all those states which, although not members of the euro area, have notified the commission of their intention to apply this regulation. the aim is to extend the application of sanctions and the payment of fines by states which do not comply with the established requirements, placing them in a position of genuine submission to the european institutions and the directory of powers which, in essence, commands them... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − this is the regulation on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area and is another of the key pieces of legislation in the economic governance package. this regulation is concerned mainly with a system of sanctions and the application of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed by the european commission on the basis of delegated acts. although the proposal was initially intended to cover only those member states whose currency is the euro, parliament wants it to apply to all those states which, although not members of the euro area, have notified the commission of their intention to apply this regulation. it is a process of interference which insists on the application of the same type of monetary and neoliberal policies and criteria, deepening the real stick imposed on the member states, without looking at the causes of the problems or at alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. what it does is to extend the application of sanctions and the payment of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them, placing them in a position of genuine submission to the european institutions, only to serve the interests of economic and financial groups... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, which is part of the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area. the commission's proposals on improving economic governance are of the utmost importance for the future of the eu and for economic growth, in particular in the euro area. the crucial importance of these measures has led the european parliament's rapporteurs to decide to examine the commission's proposals thoroughly as a package and to improve them in order to establish a solid and coherent framework for the coming decades. the rapporteurs took the commission's proposals as the starting point for their work. this is the first time that parliament has taken part in the council's decision-making process on the union's macroeconomic developments. the new powers conferred by the lisbon treaty bring with them new responsibilities and the council cannot take a final decision without the agreement of the european parliament on the whole package. this procedure is intended to ensure consistency and timely adoption of all the elements of the package. this has also been achieved by this report.
in writing. the report sets out a set of coercive measures to correct dangerous macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. the range of instruments ranges from deposit-paying to the application of fines and, from this point of view, it fits perfectly into the punitive philosophy of the whole package, which i do not agree with. the inclusion of macroeconomic imbalances in the world of economic coordination is in itself a positive thing, but it does not remove the necessary consequences. for example, during the process of applying sanctions, there is no symmetry and interdependence between countries with trade surpluses and countries with excessive deficits. the penalties are all for those who are already in difficulties, even when they are the result of an overvalued euro against the dollar.
in writing. - i approve this report as it has taken account of the main concerns expressed by the s&d group. the general approach of the directive is now towards maximum harmonisation, with some significant exceptions. it is particularly important that the directive applies to digital products as well as (partly) to passenger transport. the directive contains a wide range of information requirements to be provided by the trader to the consumer at the pre-contractual stage, in on-site contracts as well as off-premises and distance contracts. it is very important that immediately before the consumer places an order, he should be informed of the total price and the main characteristics of the product.
in writing. − this directive aims to simplify and complete the existing regulatory framework by merging into a single legislative instrument the four existing directives, which provide only for minimum harmonisation clauses and leave it to the discretion of the member states to adopt stricter rules, which has contributed to the existence of a huge fragmentation at community level and to high compliance costs for companies in cross-border transactions. a genuine internal market between businesses and consumers is needed, which can help to strike a fair balance between a high level of consumer protection and the competitiveness of businesses, but also ensure respect for the principle of subsidiarity. this will enable consumers to have access to competitive cross-border offers, benefiting from greater choice, better prices and clear advantages of the internal market, and also allowing them to have the greatest confidence in a high level of protection of their rights. at the same time, it will enable businesses to supply their goods and services without being subject to unnecessary legal obstacles. i agree that the ideal solution would be a total harmonisation approach as initially proposed by the commission and requested by various business circles, but unfortunately such an approach is not yet feasible at this stage... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it helps to increase consumer confidence and protection when shopping online and to reduce the reluctance of businesses to sell in other eu countries. these changes will ensure greater consumer safety and help businesses, large and small, to provide goods and services without unnecessary legal obstacles.
in writing. − consumer rights and their protection under community law are one of the main pillars of the functioning of the internal market. i believe that adequate consumer protection and safety is fundamental to the proper functioning of markets and trade, which is essential for competitiveness and growth. in this connection, it is essential to strike the necessary balance between a high level of consumer protection, particularly in terms of the information provided to consumers and the level of liability for damage caused to them, and the costs this will impose on businesses. as i said in the march vote, it is important to take account of the various national particularities and the protection offered, with due respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore believe that this is an area where, on the one hand, maximum harmonization may be useful, but on the other hand, minimum harmonization may also be adopted depending on the type of contract, because it is more appropriate.
in writing. - this report is concerned with a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on consumer rights. the european union has always been concerned about the free movement of people and goods. however, this freedom sometimes raises questions which need to be clarified and, above all, prevented or avoided. in a globalised world where more and more purchases are made online, it is essential to adapt regulations to the new requirements of the markets in order to ensure the protection of the rights of consumers who are often not even aware of them. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which represents a major step forward in consumer protection, and i welcome the council's decision to restrict this directive to door-to-door and internet sales - a market which is growing rapidly but in which consumers still feel somewhat lost - and i commend the simplification measures adopted, in particular the possibility for consumers (not companies) to terminate a contract by telephone. in fact, the common market needs more precise and transparent rules, such as the clause on the obligation to provide information on internet transaction mechanisms.
in writing. - this is a new proposal for an agreement on the european consumer rights directive, which is the culmination of tough negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission. we are faced with a compromise on the rules designed to better protect consumers and to ensure clear common conditions for companies competing in the single market. the new proposal takes into account new rights, such as the existence of an eu-wide cooling-off period of 14 days from receipt of the products. in the event of return of goods, the price paid by the consumer must be refunded within 14 days of the withdrawal. if the seller does not inform the consumer of his right to return the goods, the buyer has one year to return them. in this new version, delivery must be made within 30 days. if this does not happen within this period, the buyer has the right to cancel the order and the seller is responsible for any loss or damage that occurs during transport and cannot charge any amount that is not included in the initial order. all costs added to the value of the order shall be borne by the seller. it is a globally positive proposal, which we support.
in writing. − this new proposal for an agreement on the european consumer rights directive is the culmination of tough negotiations between the european parliament, the council and the commission. it is a commitment to standards designed to better protect consumers and to ensure clear common conditions for companies competing in the single market. the following is to be noted concerning the new duties: - an eu-wide cooling-off period of 14 days from receipt of the products, during which the consumer making distance purchases may change his mind. in the event of return of goods, the price paid by the consumer must be refunded within 14 days of the withdrawal. if the seller fails to inform the consumer of his right to return the goods, the buyer has one year to return them; the delivery must be made within 30 days. if this does not happen within that period, the buyer is entitled to cancel the order; the seller is liable for any loss or damage occurring during transport and may not charge any amount that is not included in the original order. all costs added to the value of the order shall be borne by the seller.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on consumer rights. the objective of this directive is to achieve a high level of consumer protection. the european union's attempt to combine internal market harmonisation with a high level of consumer protection could be achieved by an effort to raise the current minimum level of harmonisation in the direction of the best practices already existing in several member states. in future, the european system of civil liability of the seller for non-conformity of the product should be developed in such a way as to improve consumer protection and confidence in the markets: this is a fair principle for businesses and supports the extension of the lifetime of products. the implementation of the principle requires the creation of a european model for the settlement of consumer disputes. not all the great ambitions for the consumer rights directive have been achieved, but i believe that an important step has been taken which does not compromise the normal functioning of the market.
in writing. − the consumer rights directive is now going to the final vote, after my vote in favour in the march 2011 plenary. the new directive, which merges four existing directives, is intended to give a new impetus to the full completion of the internal market by removing legal obstacles to cross-border trade. after lengthy negotiations between the various institutions, this new legal framework will ensure common and clear conditions for citizens and businesses in the european area. cross-border commercial transactions and online transactions are now harmonised, ensuring greater security and transparency for eu consumers and businesses. the information to be provided to the consumer shall be clear, intelligible and provided in a timely manner. the specific features of hotel and restaurant reservation contracts were also safeguarded, which was not the case in the initial proposal. i believe that this new directive will lead to an increase in intra-european transactions, allowing on the one hand the protection of consumers and the full functioning of the single market, as laid down in article 26 (2) of the ec treaty. the internal market comprises an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured.
in writing. − the directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and provides for a quantitative change without altering the environmental objectives previously set out in directive 2000/25/ec. in view of the difficulties currently being experienced in the sector, an increase in the percentage of engines placed on the market under the flexibility scheme could be advantageous. the rapporteur says that the proposal is intended to enable manufacturers in the union to sell tractors, to overcome the current economic crisis, to find new resources for research and to respect the limits of european environmental legislation, and at the same time to replace obsolete tractors with new ones with less polluting engines. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the compatibility of environmental protection with the protection of agricultural and industrial activities.
in writing. − this report by salvatore tatarella is concerned with a proposal for a joint european parliament and council directive amending directive 2000/25/ec as regards the provisions applicable to tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme, as regards exhaust emissions. environmental protection is one of the european union's priorities. this directive lays down the maximum level of exhaust emissions which each diesel tractor may emit, taking into account its power, and establishes a timetable for the phased reduction of these emissions. although the proposal does not envisage such a drastic reduction as initially envisaged, this is due to the delay in the implementation of the new technological solutions and the drop in turnover over the last two years (2009 and 2010), which is above 20%. i voted in favour of the recommendations made by the rapporteur because i agree that this directive will not only enable tractor dealers to comply with european legislation and overcome the current crisis, but will also enable farmers to replace their old tractors with new agricultural machinery with more efficient and less polluting engines.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2000/25/ec on the provisions applicable to tractors placed on the market under the flexibility scheme. the directive in question concerns emissions from agricultural tractors and proposes a purely quantitative amendment to the directive without altering the environmental protection objectives, operating conditions and period of validity. this directive is urgent because it covers a period which began on 1 january 2011 and, very importantly, because of the positive impact it is expected to have on the sector concerned. all these facts, duly substantiated in this report, have influenced my vote in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission proposal lays down specific requirements to ensure that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for spent fuel and radioactive waste, starting with their generation and their disposal. it is essential to impose a ban on the export of waste and to allow the competent regulatory authority to stop certain activities if their assessment reveals that they are unsafe. nuclear waste which is not recyclable shall not be exported to third countries. we need a responsible strategy and appropriate means to eliminate all nuclear waste produced for energy purposes, for research or for medical applications.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste because i believe that a responsible strategy and appropriate means are needed to deal with all nuclear waste, whether from energy production, scientific research or medicine, and taking into account that non-recyclable nuclear waste should not be exported to third countries.
in writing. the proposed directive establishes the european legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. it lays down specific requirements to ensure that member states have the regulatory and organisational means to deal with the problem adequately. since this proposal is based on the euratom treaty, the european parliament is only consulted. we are facing a highly sensitive environmental issue which requires the utmost attention from policy-makers and a serious and rigorous monitoring of the management of this waste. the dramatic events in fukushima have thrown a sense of urgency and drama on the issue that we should perhaps overcome when discussing energy resources. the emotional climate that has been generated, and which is understandable, does not seem to me to be the best adviser on matters of this magnitude. this does not mean, of course, that we should not pursue a policy of strict control and monitoring of everything that involves nuclear energy.
in writing. - the problem of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste is dealt with in the report by mrs romana jordan cizeli, which we have just voted on. after the fukushima disaster, this question has acquired unusual acuteness because of the security issues that are inherent in it. the european parliament has been calling for a directive in this area for some time. radioactive waste deserves increased attention, not only for the safety of workers handling it, but also for the general public. we must not forget the environmental consequences of this waste, which is a threat to biodiversity. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal which aims to implement the 'polluter pays' principle and introduces restrictive measures on the export of these products to third countries. in fact, it is essential to realise that we cannot leave these problems to future generations. i welcome the introduction of a financial mechanism to support the management of such waste in order to eliminate its hazardous nature and the adoption of stricter regulations to prevent infringement of this directive.
in writing. − in november 2010, the commission published a proposal for a directive establishing an eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. it is proposed that member states establish a national regulatory and organisational framework and draw up appropriate national programmes for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste from generation to disposal. the commission proposal was welcomed as it was designed in accordance with principles already applied at international level, building on approaches already adopted in the more advanced member states and providing a framework for more responsible management, including: (i) a national framework based on a clear division of duties and responsibilities among stakeholders, (ii) a national programme ensuring frameworks, deadlines and clarity in the nuclear waste decision-making process, and (iii) balanced rules on transparency and information, monitoring and control. i support the concerns raised about the potentially disastrous effects of human error in the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel, and stress the need for strict standards of training, safety at the workplace and inspection by independent bodies.
in writing. − i agree with the main political message of the preliminary report, which argues that the eu budget has a key role to play in helping eu member states recover from the economic and social crisis, in order to promote growth and jobs. the report also rejects the idea that the eu's economic problems can be solved by a purely austerity-oriented approach. i cannot help but note that more investment is needed to help implement the europe 2020 strategy and this report highlights that shortfall. finally, i would like to stress the important note to the council, urging it not to make mere arithmetical cuts and, if it does, to explain what priorities have been set.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the trilogue on the draft budget for the financial year 2012 because the budget of the european union should help member states to recover from the economic and social crisis by promoting growth and employment and the investment needed to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the european strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth remains at the top of its agenda and cannot be ignored in the preparation of the community budget for the financial year 2012. the role of smes is extremely relevant, as they are the ones who will best be able to leverage this type of growth. this budget comes at a time of particular difficulty in the face of the crisis felt by the peripheral countries, including portugal, and can play a significant role in the way these countries conduct their efforts to return to the path of financial stability and the consolidation of public accounts. new areas of competence, such as those relating to the area of freedom, security and justice, also require the strengthening of the institutions' resources and capacity for action. the way in which conflicts in the mediterranean will develop may justify increased means of dealing with their consequences. i hope that the trilogue on the 2012 budget will take place in a constructive atmosphere, that it will take account of the main shortcomings and concerns of europeans and that it will also help to equip the union with the means to fulfil its tasks and the powers deriving from them properly.
in writing. − the eu 2020 budget is already set to guide the 2012 budget. it should be noted that the implementation of this strategy will require a huge amount of future-oriented investments, estimated at around eur 1 800 billion, by 2020. we must now seek to improve education levels, promote social inclusion, including through poverty reduction, and foster the development of a knowledge society based on the eu's overall scientific and technological capacity. it is therefore necessary to support research, development, innovation and smes. the amount of the draft eu budget for 2012, as proposed by the commission, is eur 147 435 million in commitment appropriations and eur 132 738 million in payment appropriations. these amounts represent respectively 1,12% and 1,01% of the eu's projected gross national income (gni) for 2012. it is noted that the annual inflation rate for the eu-27 is estimated at 2,7% for 2011, which means that the nominal increases of 3,7% in commitment expenditure and 4,9% in payment expenditure for 2012 are in real terms and compared to 2011 of 1% and 2,2% respectively.
in writing. − it is unacceptable to subject the eu budget strategy (this time for 2012) once again to the objectives of the so-called eu 2020 strategy, the heir to the failed lisbon strategy whose announced poverty reduction and job creation objectives were nothing more than propaganda. the concrete situation of countries such as portugal demonstrates this, with more people in poverty, more unemployment and increasing inequalities. the draft 2012 budget should take this reality into account by supporting production in each member state, wealth creation, combating unemployment and creating jobs with rights, combating social inequalities and poverty, and defending and promoting public services. the budgetary guidelines, adopted by the majority of the ep, are fully in line with the dynamics of the european semester, seeking to impose structural adjustments of a neoliberal nature. it is unacceptable that, in the face of the very serious crisis affecting the most vulnerable economies in the eu, there should be unreasonable demands for co-financing for the use of community funds, in particular the structural funds. we have therefore advocated the abolition or substantial reduction, up to a maximum of 10%, of national participation. we voted against all of this.
in writing. − we consider it unacceptable that the eu budget (this time for 2012) should once again be subject to the objectives of the so-called eu 2020 strategy, the heir to the failed lisbon strategy whose announced objectives of poverty reduction and job creation were nothing more than propaganda. the concrete situation of countries such as portugal demonstrates this, with more people in poverty, more unemployment and increasing inequalities. the budgetary guidelines, adopted by the majority of the ep, are fully in line with the dynamics of the european semester, seeking to impose structural adjustments of a neoliberal nature. it is unacceptable that, in the face of the very serious crisis affecting the most vulnerable economies in the eu, there should be unreasonable demands for co-financing for the use of community funds, in particular the structural funds. we have therefore advocated the abolition or substantial reduction, up to a maximum of 10%, of national participation. the draft 2012 budget should take this reality into account by supporting production in each member state, wealth creation, combating unemployment and creating jobs with rights, combating social inequalities and poverty, and defending and promoting public services.
in writing. − this report on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2012 draft budget is of particular interest in view of the economic period we are living in. in fact, it is noted that 11 of the 22 standing committees of parliament have delivered opinions on this report. this is the second budget to be adopted under the rules laid down by the lisbon treaty, so it is important to check what went wrong last year so that the process can be improved. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the mandate given to the ep representatives in the trilogue on this subject to be held on 11 july 2011 in its entirety. i would like to highlight the following points of interest in the mandate given to the trilogue: 1) the appropriations to be provided in the 2012 union budget to finance the eu 2020 strategy, 2) the proposal to revise the current multiannual financial framework (2007-13) to take account of the additional financial needs of the iter project, and 3) financial sustainability and sound management of category 4 in 2012, in particular taking into account the next letter of amendment to address the democratic transition in the southern mediterranean.
in writing. − the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives of the eu 2020 strategy should be at the heart of the priorities to be considered in the future 2012 budget. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. it should be noted that, in a context of economic recovery for many member states, the european union budget has a role to play by reinforcing support for national investment to stimulate growth. the level of payment appropriations proposed by the european commission should therefore be maintained, taking into account the need for all programmes to proceed swiftly. in this respect, efforts should be made to focus priorities and to target reallocation of resources. there are also other areas which must have a budgetary equivalent, such as justice, freedom and security, and there is also a need to react to developments in the mediterranean region.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, among other reasons, because the report includes a proposal which insists on the need to assess the specific situation of the milk and milk products sector before march 2015 in order to ensure the proper functioning and stability of the milk market. i see this approval as an important message from the european parliament so that the commission can know, without any dogmatic considerations, whether a decision taken years ago, on the basis of certain forecasts, when the time comes to take effect and taking into account the reality twelve years later, will bring real benefits, or whether, on the contrary, it will contribute to aggravating the situation at that time. the document also states that the cap - and i stress this - must be fairer and more equitable, with a more balanced redistribution of financial resources between the countries and a system of direct aid to farmers, which is more equitable and based on environmental and social criteria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the cap to 2020: meeting the challenges of the future in terms of food, natural resources and land, by putting forward proposals to meet new challenges such as food security, environmental protection and climate change, while ensuring a greater territorial balance in rural europe.
in writing. − agriculture must be seen as an economic activity generating wealth and development, in the context of the eu2020 policy, and therefore its reform must be designed in the context of the competitiveness and sustainability of european production. this requires a new impetus, by simplifying procedures but also by strengthening the community budget in the cap, which is why i think it is very positive that the report calls for the cap budget to be at least at the level of 2013, thus preventing this parliament from accepting any reduction. i would like to stress once again the importance for portugal of the issue of maintaining milk quotas or any other effective mechanism for regulating the market and the commitment that i, as a member of the european parliament, will continue to defend it with commitment.
in writing. − a sustainable, productive and competitive european agriculture can meet the challenges of food and energy security, climate change, the environment and biodiversity, health and demographic change in the eu. it should be noted that according to the fao, the world population is expected to increase from 7 to more than 9 billion in 2050, which will require a 70% increase in global agricultural production. so more food will have to be produced in a context of higher production costs, enormous volatility in agricultural markets and increasing pressure on natural resources, which means that farmers will have to produce more using less land, less water and less energy. i am in favour of the cap continuing with two pillars, each of which has a well-defined structure and objectives, designed to complement each other. i hope that the first pillar will be more equitable. i also believe that special attention should be paid to small farmers, since they make an important contribution to the objectives of the cap. i also think it is essential that the present milk quota system be maintained.
in writing. - this report follows on from the earlier lyon report on the broad lines of cap reform and the commission communication on the cap, the main lines of which it welcomes. despite important points which we value, such as the refusal to reduce the overall cap budget or the proposal to maintain the planting rights for vines, the content of the report is profoundly negative, advocating a cap whose consequences are clearly visible in the direction of the decline and destruction of portuguese agriculture. in line with previous reforms, deregulation and liberalisation of markets, the orientation towards the production market, putting at risk the right of countries to produce and their food security and sovereignty, as well as the survival of small and medium-sized farming, are being reiterated and deepened. the commission is continuing to advocate that agriculture be subject to wto rules, thus promoting intensive, export-oriented production models at the expense of locally, socially and environmentally sustainable production and consumption. the redistribution of cap funds advocated, in view of the deep injustice which exists today (between countries, producers and production), cannot be separated from the guarantee of minimising losses on the part of the major beneficiaries... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - we voted against this report because it does not address the challenges of the future or the serious problems of the present. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments which we consider essential for a fundamental change in the present cap. we regret that the whole of the proposal has not been adopted, particularly the defence of the instruments for regulating the markets and of the intervention mechanisms which guarantee fair prices for farmers and the right of each country to produce. but we will continue to advocate the maintenance of the milk production quota system as an essential condition for the protection of producers in the most sensitive countries, the maintenance of vine planting rights and the maintenance of aid for alcohol-by-mouth and crisis distillation. we will also continue to push for the creation of a public agricultural insurance funded by community funds, which will guarantee a minimum income to farmers in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to decouple the new system of direct aid to farmers from production and to base it on environmental and social criteria. it called for a system of direct payments which would be graduated according to the size of the agricultural holding and reserved exclusively for active farmers who use agricultural land for production and maintain it in good agricultural and environmental condition. this is a step towards ending the absurd subsidies to feudal landlords. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. a safety net is also advocated and the association of small producers is promoted. some of the problems generated by the market are diagnosed, environmental and social issues are given more emphasis. these points should be valued and deepened. however, the solutions presented in the report go further than these same market mechanisms which are responsible for the current crisis of price volatility and unequal distribution of incomes along the production chain. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to decouple the new system of direct aid to farmers from production and to base it on environmental and social criteria. it called for a system of direct payments which would be graduated according to the size of the agricultural holding and reserved exclusively for active farmers who use agricultural land for production and maintain it in good agricultural and environmental condition. this is a step towards ending the absurd subsidies to feudal landlords. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. a safety net is also advocated and the association of small producers is promoted. some of the problems generated by the market are diagnosed, environmental and social issues are given more emphasis. these points should be valued and deepened. however, the solutions presented in the report go further than these same market mechanisms which are responsible for the current crisis of price volatility and unequal distribution of incomes along the production chain. that is why i abstained.
in writing. − the main objective of the common agricultural policy (cap), as laid down in article 39 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is to increase agricultural productivity by encouraging technical progress, ensuring the rational development of agricultural production and the optimum use of the factors of production, in particular labour. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it contains measures to strengthen and ensure the sustainability of the cap after 2013, while contributing to the achievement of the objectives enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy, and takes into account the clear differences between the new and the old member states. i think it is crucial that the cap should encourage the development of safe and healthy food for the general population and the food industry in particular. administrative measures should also be introduced to reduce the bureaucracy involved in preparing applications by farmers in order to facilitate access to community funds. finally, i voted in favour of the amendment on milk because i do not agree with the european commission's insistence on the abolition of the milk quota system which will only aggravate the already weak situation of national producers.
the rapporteur. - there are three basic issues i would like to stress at the beginning of this debate. first, the effectiveness of the legislation. once again, on such sensitive matters as those relating to schengen, the european parliament has been able to reach agreement at first reading. we worked well and fast. for those who do not believe in codecision, we have once again given a definitive answer. if the council were to take a unanimous decision, it would be delayed for a longer period. i thank the hungarian presidency for its efforts and its competent commitment. secondly, the strengthening of schengen. even with differing opinions on some matters, we have achieved a broad consensus in this parliament. because we are, in essence, in favour of strengthening schengen and we do not agree with attempts to weaken the free movement of persons. i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and support. and thirdly, the community solution. although it initially had little support in the council, the creation of this agency corresponds to the preference expressed by this parliament, which has always fought for a european solution to the detriment of the intergovernmental one that still prevails in sis i. according to the commission's impact assessment, the creation of an agency is undoubtedly the best solution from a financial, operational and institutional point of view. i would ask commissioner barnier to convey to commissioner malmström our thanks for her timely initiative and cooperation. the regulation we are about to adopt responds positively to the concerns of this parliament. let me make seven points. firstly, new systems clash with the legislative instrument, and there is much talk of new systems in the area of freedom, security and justice. it was clearly safeguarded in the regulation that new systems could only be joined after they had been created by means of a specific legal instrument adopted in co-decision with the european parliament. secondly, no to interoperability between systems. it is expressly safeguarded that there may be no interoperability between the systems managed by the agency unless such possibility is expressly provided for in the legal instruments establishing each of those systems. thirdly, the location of the agency. the prerogatives of the european parliament were respected and the decision was taken in a codecision procedure between parliament and the council. headquarters in tallinn, technical site in strasbourg, the backup site in austria. the pressure from parliament has led to two letters from the french and estonian ministers confirming the investments that each of these countries will make in order to find the most cost-effective solution. fourthly, the communication infrastructure. we were able to reach a compromise: any possibility of unauthorized access is prohibited; it is mandatory that all data that circulates on the network is encrypted and it is guaranteed that the encryption key cannot be passed on to the responsibility of a private company outsourced, exactly the opposite of what happens today. we also regulated the members of the management board and voting rights, to ensure that member states only participate in the system to which they are bound. the united kingdom's participation was safeguarded and ireland decided not to be bound by this regulation. finally, madam president, various improvements have been made in terms of strengthening the role of the european parliament, increasing transparency and improving data protection.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i too would like to welcome commissioner malmström. before it came, i had the opportunity to remind you that if it proves once again that codecision is a powerful instrument, because if we were still with the old system and this decision did not have codecision but was adopted unanimously in the council, we would probably not have a decision because we would still be tied in the council waiting for a unanimity that we would never be able to get. i would like to say that i share the views expressed by mr marinescu. in fact, i would also have liked a board of directors with fewer members, but in these matters which have to do with schengen and are based on mutual trust, it is very important that all the member states participate and for that reason alone we have accepted a very large board of directors. but it really does not make sense that in all european agencies we have such large boards. monika benová and mikolášik raised the question of the participation of the member states. and the truth is that the united kingdom has decided to participate in this regulation, ireland has decided to stay out, but what has been guaranteed is that, firstly, the presidency of this agency can only be held by a member state which participates in all the systems which are managed by the agency, that is, member states which have a partial participation cannot be elected as president, and secondly, and i end with this, madam president, that only those member states which participate in each of the subjects have access to the information. and so i think that concerns are safeguarded. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken to me in a very kind manner. i believe that we have all risen to the challenge and that parliament and the council, with the help of the commission, have once again demonstrated that we have been able, in record time, to reach a very successful first reading.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me try to answer all these questions, which are indeed very detailed. but this is a good moment to take stock of where we are. the negotiations with the us, australia and canada have now reached an advanced stage. the negotiations with australia have been concluded and the commission has recommended that the council sign and conclude the agreement and put it to parliament. the procedure for signing is pending in the council due to parliamentary scrutiny in some member states. the negotiations with the us are well advanced but still ongoing. the draft text has been made available to the council and to some members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the negotiations with canada are also ongoing. there have been delays due to the parliamentary elections in canada. we hope to be able to present you with a draft text very soon but i cannot undertake to do so before the summer break. so important decisions will shortly be made on these three agreements. ms in ’t veld and certain others mentioned agreements concerning numerous countries, but the aim is to make a single joint multilateral agreement out of these three bilateral agreements. but that is for later, there are no negotiations whatsoever ongoing with any other country. let me start with a few remarks on necessity and proportionality and on profiling. the question of necessity and proportionality is something you face in many issues, including eu pnr. it is a very important question. this issue was analysed in depth in both our communication on pnr from last year and the impact assessment that accompanied the proposal for an eu pnr. the analysis essentially revealed three things: firstly, pnr is used by a growing number of countries globally to prevent and to bring to justice those guilty of serious crimes and terrorism. serious crimes and terrorism continue to cause very serious harm to victims, as well as to the economy and citizens’ sense of security. secondly, pnr can make a unique contribution because it helps identify people who are not known to be involved in criminal activities but whose travel patterns fit with those of drug smugglers or human traffickers. in other words, while simple passport data may not be enough to catch criminals already on the wanted list, pnr data makes it possible to identify a wider range of persons who are likely to pose a security risk. thirdly, there is evidence that pnr data has already been successful in preventing and fighting serious crimes and terrorism, both in member states and in third countries. data has been particularly important in identifying and dismantling criminal networks involving crimes such as drug-smuggling and human trafficking. my services have already met with you once to present evidence on the necessity of pnr and there will be a follow-up meeting tomorrow. the commission is therefore convinced that pnr is an important tool in fighting serious crime and terrorism, when it is complemented by strong data-protection guarantees and when the necessity and proportionality principles are respected. the issue of profiling was also raised. that has been discussed already and there is no exact definition of it in eu law. profiling is generally understood to be an automatic data processing technique where a profile is applied to an individual in order to take a decision that affects him or her. there are, therefore, three different uses of pnr: firstly, reactive use in specific investigations after the flight. secondly, real-time use prior to the flight, by checking pnr against pre-determined risk assessment criteria and against databases on wanted persons. thirdly, there is pro-active use – also known as trend analysis – to create or update risk assessment criteria. of these three uses of pnr data, only one – real-time use – might potentially be considered to be a form of profiling, in this case the checking of the pnr against pre-determined risk assessment criteria. to ensure that this use will not adversely affect individuals, the new eu-australia pnr agreement explicitly prohibits automated processing and always requires human involvement before adverse decisions are taken on the basis of pnr data. this prohibition was not present in the pnr agreement from 2007, so it is an important step forward. the commission is seeking to have the same provisions included in the us and canadian agreements. a similar provision is also included in the commission’s proposal for the directive on the european pnr. the commission’s approach to both the european pnr and pnr agreements with third countries is therefore in line with eu data protection legislation, which grants every individual the right not to be subject to a decision which produces legal effects concerning him or her, and which is based exclusively, or to a decisive extent, on automated processing of data on him or her. against this background, the commission is not convinced of the need to develop any new legal definition of profiling. on the eu-australia agreement, the commission’s view is that the new agreement respects the council’s negotiating mandate and the resolution of this house. we consider that it respects the principles of necessity and proportionality. we should bear in mind that the agreement has a well-defined and specific purpose limitation – a limited period of detention of all pnr. pnr will be masked-out a short time after the flight and stored anonymously. strict conditions apply on transfers of data to third countries and pnr must be transmitted by air carriers exclusively by the ‘push’ method. the question of proportionality should be viewed in the general context of the laws of the third country, in this case australia, and the security threat faced by that country. members have raised important questions on dispute resolution, suspension and termination. the procedures for terminating the agreement would be the same as those for concluding the agreement and therefore parliament’s role is fully assured. suspension of the agreement is regulated by article 218(9) of the treaty. there is no formal role for parliament. however, a parliamentary resolution calling for a suspension would certainly be a very important political consideration for whether the commission would desire to launch such a procedure. finally, the commission agrees with the european court of justice that the main purpose of pnr agreements is police and judicial cooperation, and not data protection. that was confirmed in 2005 by the european court of justice in the us pnr case. it was clearly stated that pnr agreements should be drawn up using the legal bases for police and judicial cooperation. on the us agreement, you asked whether there were any bilateral agreements between the us and member states on pnr. this issue was discussed in detail in this house in october 2010. the us signed a memorandum of understanding with several member states as part of the visa waiver programme. the memorandum of understanding was intended to commit the parties – the us and the specific member states – to enter into negotiations on passenger information, information on the screening of known or suspected terrorists, information to combat terrorism and serious crime and information on migration and border security matters. the memorandum of understanding was not intended to be in itself the legal basis for the exchange of data between that member state and the us. it merely expressed the intention of the two parties to have specific agreements to govern the exchange of data. only such an agreement would then be the legal basis for exchanging data. in order to implement the memorandum of understanding, the us and the relevant member states signed only two types of agreement, namely agreements on enhancing cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime and agreements on the exchange of screening information concerning known or suspected terrorists. following that debate, and in the context of the negotiations, we again examined the issue, and asked both the member states and the us whether there were any bilateral agreements between them on pnr. both sides replied categorically negatively. both the member states and the us assure us that the only agreement regulating pnr is the one that the us signed with the eu in 2007. no further agreement exists. secure flight data are not to be confused with pnr data. they differ both in nature and in function. they are much more limited in scope since secure flight data include only the name, date of birth and gender of passengers. such data are used by the us authorities exclusively to prevent individuals already known to pose a security risk – i.e. those on the us no-fly list – from boarding an aircraft. secure flight data is collected by air carriers on behalf of the us authorities and pnr data is collected by air carriers for their own commercial purposes. to reduce their economic burden, carriers generally choose to provide the required secure data with the pnr data to the us department of homeland security (dhs). on receipt, the secure flight data is retrieved from the pnr and stored separately for seven days and then deleted. another very important issue is ad hoc ‘pulls’ by the us authorities. last year’s joint review acknowledged that there was a problem with regard to both the number of ad hoc requests for pnr data and the fact that the dhs executed such requests by ‘pulling’ the data. it strongly called for improvements to this state of affairs and for the us authorities to step up their efforts to encourage air carriers to use the ‘push’ method of transmission only. the us has acknowledged that the high frequency of ‘pulls’ is problematic. the issue is being re-discussed in the context of negotiations with the us on the new pnr agreement. the commission’s aim is to ensure that data are transferred using the ‘push’ method, with recourse to ‘pulls’ only in strictly limited circumstances. finally, you asked about the opinion of our legal service. i can say that the commission is seeking improvements to the text on a small number of key issues. we have emphasised to the us that the support of both the council and the parliament is needed for the final outcome of the negotiations. on the issue of the transfer of data between the us and canada, this was, and continues to be, governed by the memorandum of understanding signed between those two countries. its purpose is the sharing of ‘look-out’ and advance passenger information data between canadian border service agencies and the united states customs and border protection to identify high-risk travellers and facilitate the flow of legitimate persons across the border. we have carefully assessed these agreements on a strictly confidential basis and we are convinced that they do not violate the pnr agreements with either country. i am sorry this was long but there were very many questions that i had to answer. i hope i have adequately answered the questions asked in this plenary.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament i think that there is no excuse for lack of clarity here. we are facing a paradigm shift in research. citizens know that in the past they were investigated if they were suspected of a crime or had committed a crime. the thing about processing pmr data is that everyone is being investigated, including innocent people, and therefore, justified or not, proportionate or not, necessary or not, citizens need to be told clearly that they are being investigated, even when they are innocent. this cannot happen without a very clear debate with the citizens, particularly when their data is in the hands of third countries, as is the case. that is why we are discussing the agreement with the united states here today. most people would be okay with their data being used to stop a terrorist from blowing up the plane they're on. that's not the point. but what would people say if much of their data, including credit card and address information, was in the hands of a third country for 15 years, long after the plane had arrived at its destination? that is what is happening now with the agreement we have with the united states. and in 15 years, let's be clear, a lot of administrations change: an administration that says it wouldn't do data mining might actually do it. for that, the agreement would have to be perfectly clear, however, i believe that the agreement we have today leaves big holes, big windows for different uses. i wonder what the commission will do to close these big holes in the agreement we have now.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner malmström for her replies. i particularly liked the way you said that this system is useful if (and i said if) there is strong data protection. the question is whether or not we are faced with a system, particularly in relation to the united states of america, in which european data protection legislation is being respected. the commissioner has legal advice for her services. what we feel is that there is an attempt to make us conform to their data protection standard. but when it comes to our data, it is our data that has to be adapted to our legal framework and that has to be ensured. however, it is not clear that this is being verified from the point of view of proportionality, data use and data retention. finally, the commissioner suggested that pulling was possible in certain circumstances. i would remind you of what mrs in't veld has already said, namely that according to the european parliament, no pull is possible, only the push system should be allowed.
mr president, today it was announced that the railway line between porto and vigo is to be closed. the region of northern portugal and galicia is being hit hard by this withdrawal. this line is dying because it's out of service. it has ceased to serve because it is not adapted to the present conditions of modern life and that has only happened because of a lack of investment in recent times. europe says it is committed to sustainable rail and public transport. however, a study carried out in portugal at the request of the troika calls for the closure of more than 800 kilometres of railway lines in portugal. only two weeks ago a narrow majority in this parliament rejected the proposal that would have excluded productive investment from the deficit calculations. that proposal didn't pass, but measures like this would have saved the railroad by modernizing it. mr. president, the conclusion of all this is sad. the dictatorship of the deficit is killing public services in europe.
mr president, the greek parliament has adopted a new package of austerity measures with severe consequences for the living conditions of the people and for the economy of the country. the european union has imposed this programme and the union is also responsible. in portugal, last week parliament approved the government's programme, which took advantage of the situation to announce an extraordinary tax which takes away half of the christmas allowance. to meet the deficit, it does not hesitate to worsen the recession in which my country is already. the union, europe, is also responsible because it is its own authoritarian obsession with the deficit. and yet, in the wake of recessionary policies, the irish government announced a reduction in vat on catering, hospitality and leisure. i ask: why is it impossible in portugal and greece to do what is possible and desirable in ireland? and if the national authorities in these tourist countries want to lower vat, will the european commission take account of the irish case law?
mr president, last week the european commission released its proposal for the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. the document presented by the commission is balanced in its proposals for the various european policies and maintains the structure and the seven-year period of the financial framework. the outlook is now clearly geared towards the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and introduces greater simplification, transparency and fairness in the funding system. cohesion policy maintains a strong budget, which is welcomed with a focus on results, added value and the creation of the new category of regions in transition. however, the concern for the territorial dimension which underpinned this measure was forgotten for the outermost regions. although there is still a specific allocation for the ors, its value decreases from eur 979 million to eur 926 million between 2014 and 2020, which is worrying when we take into account the ongoing difficulties and future challenges facing these regions.
mr president, i too consider this debate to be important. we know how important universal service is and that the emergency number 112 should be made public. as we know, even today, less than 30 percent of the population is aware of this emergency number. so this alone demonstrates the need for information campaigns, education, the use of the various media, the internet, radio and broadband. but i would like to make another point: all this must not also serve to increase social exclusion, because we must recognize that there are about 100 million people at risk of poverty and who have difficulty accessing new technologies. it is necessary to take account of concrete measures and actions that allow access to all under equal conditions, i.e. that the fact of not having money is not an obstacle to access to new technologies, to access to universal service and to access to the emergency number.
mr president, it is true that the retail trade is under serious attack, especially in countries where this trade is carried out by micro and small family businesses and where, in some cases, the purchasing power of the population is declining. in particular, the less urban areas where it plays an important social role are experiencing moments of distress. i am speaking on the basis of experience in my country, portugal, where this family-based retail trade is under serious attack, whether because of unequal trade, unfair competition from large retail chains, difficulties in accessing credit, or the decline in the purchasing power of the population due to the increase in poverty and unemployment. so it is these data (which have already been brought here but which i would also like to add) that i believe the commission should pay the greatest attention to.
mr president, there is an essential starting point in this debate which some people sometimes forget or try to hide. for decades, for centuries, the relations between the so-called industrialized countries and the so-called developing countries have been based on unequal trade, dependence and underdevelopment of the latter, seen as sources of raw materials and cheap labour. the centre-periphery relations inherent in the global capitalist system are inherently unjust and unequal. these relations are maintained by the policies imposed by institutions such as the wto or the imf, with their structural adjustment programmes, and through instruments such as the stifling external debt and its service. all this must be questioned and radically changed, and it is for all this that development aid policy must not be seen as an act of charity by the richest to the poorest, but as a necessity dictated by criteria of elementary justice. the report, which contains positive aspects but is not without contradictions, unfortunately misses these and other essential issues.
mr president, the modernisation and renewal of energy infrastructure is essential to the sustainable and smart growth objectives we seek with strategy 2020 and to our energy security which we need. it is essential that all regions are involved in this challenge. to this end, the incentives provided for in the regulatory systems should be improved, in particular those applying to higher risk projects and to more innovative projects such as those being developed in the azores in the field of renewable energies. the regions must be involved in the design and implementation of projects, in the definition of priorities, in their preparation and implementation, because this guarantees better results and therefore better protection of the european interest. the current economic situation further emphasises the need for an innovative and integrated approach to energy issues, taking into account all economic, environmental and social aspects. it is essential to keep in mind its effects in the medium and long term in order to ensure that all european citizens have access to secure, sustainable and affordable energy.
mr president, it is worth stressing the importance of developing energy production and setting priorities for energy infrastructure by 2020 and beyond. but because energy is a strategic area requiring high investment, regions and countries with weaker economies have difficulty keeping up with innovation, and therefore full liberalisation in this area could lead to greater social inequalities, greater asymmetries and greater energy poverty. three measures therefore seem essential to us: maintaining public policies in the field of energy, precisely with the aim of ensuring equal access to it for all; maintaining strong public enterprises and public sectors, which also enable regions and countries in difficulty to innovate, expand and be supported; and ensuring that all people have access to energy, preventing energy poverty and the difficulty for millions of households to access energy and to heat their homes.
in writing. the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns. to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy infrastructure. i welcome the proposal for the creation of a european connection mechanism contained in the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2022 adopted by the european commission. the connecting europe facility aims to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of energy, transport and information and communication technologies (ict) with a budget of eur 40 billion for the period 2014-2020. i would draw particular attention to this mechanism for supporting islands and outermost regions such as the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french outermost regions, whose specific requirements in terms of energy infrastructure must be taken into account.
mr president, the report we are discussing is of particular importance in view of the influence that social services of general interest have on the daily lives of european citizens, as well as on social cohesion, job creation and economic growth. the cooperation with the rapporteur, mr proinsias de rossa, was very fruitful and enlightening, as the rapporteur himself has just said, and allowed the adoption of a number of commitments in the committee on employment and social affairs. i congratulate the rapporteur on the outcome of the debate we have had here today. in fact, our main concern was to make it clear that the member states have the responsibility for this. the national authorities have the power to define, organise and finance social services of general interest. the creation of harmonising legislation at european level is therefore unnecessary, given that the realities of these social services of general interest are very different in the 27 member states. it is enough to look at health, social security, employment and social housing services, which are examples of how proximity and knowledge of the context are the cornerstone for the proper and fairest provision of these services.
mr president, i would like to begin by stressing the importance of all public services, including social services of general interest, without which there is no social europe and no social inclusion. we therefore stress the need to change the policies of liberalization to promote a genuine policy of social progress, which guarantees universal access to quality public services, naturally giving special attention to disadvantaged groups, but guaranteeing access to these services of general interest to all. we therefore believe that liberalization should be stopped and that an urgent assessment should be made of the social and population consequences of liberalization in sectors which are fundamental to social progress, such as transport, energy, water, postal services, telecommunications, health, education and social protection. and so, commissioner, here is our challenge to you.
mr president, as rapporteur for the regi opinion on the future of social services of general interest, i would like to congratulate mr de rossa on the fact that we are dealing with an essential pillar of the social market economy model which we are advocating for europe and in which the social services of general interest play a fundamental role in its cohesion. social cohesion at european union level suggests that the existence of minimum levels of protection in all member states be taken into account, without prejudice to the powers of their national, regional and local authorities. the european regions have a very important role in providing these services to the population and their views should be taken into account, given the nature of their constraints in ensuring that the population is provided with these services. in a time of crisis such as the one we are now experiencing, general services of general interest constitute a social safety net for the most disadvantaged or for those whose incomes do not allow them access to private services. it is therefore important to ensure that member states which decentralise powers make sure that they are accompanied by their own financial means so that regional and local authorities can ensure that they are properly provided to the people.
europe is currently experiencing a very difficult social reality as a result of the crisis. in this context, the role of the social services is becoming more important, and it is necessary to strengthen the social dimension of the process of european integration. it is necessary to ensure greater legal certainty for social actors and public authorities, to ensure financial transparency in this sector and to improve the quality of the services provided, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity and taking into account the implementation of the social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. in this connection, the definition of a statute for mutual societies and other social organizations, support for the vocational training of their employees and clarification of the procedures for financial support by public entities are particularly relevant. all these processes should respect local, regional and national authorities, which have different support and funding roles for social services of general interest (ssig) in the different member states. gss have special characteristics and should therefore not be treated like any other economic service or be subject to the same competition rules as those imposed by the internal market.
mr president, there is a central question in this debate which is, let us say, very relevant: the question of consistency. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. on the one hand, the importance of agriculture, industry, indigenous resources, training and knowledge transfer is recognized as essential factors in promoting the emancipation and free and autonomous development of the least developed countries. on the other hand, the defence of deregulation and the liberalization of world trade and the financial system, which divert resources from these countries, jeopardize their development prospects and worsen their dependence and subjugation, continues. the importance of public education and health systems in fighting poverty is recognised, but in practice they are put under immense pressure by so-called structural adjustment programmes, in the manner of the imf, which dismantle these and other essential public services. property rights often continue to prevail over the public interest and the health of entire populations, the so-called commodity diplomacy that masks unmistakable neocolonial views. these are just a few examples of this blatant inconsistency.
this hungarian presidency has been overshadowed by many events, ranging from internal polemics to the increasingly negative developments in the european union. the internal polemics, which have repercussions in the debate in the european parliament, highlight the attacks on fundamental freedoms and rights, particularly in the context of the press law and the revision of the hungarian constitution, which represent a setback in the rights of women, workers, intellectuals and the hungarian population in general. in matters of european union, although responsibility is not generally the responsibility of the presidency alone, it must be borne in mind that it was during this period that the euro crisis dragged on, that unacceptable conditions were imposed on greece, portugal and ireland and that progress was made in the area of economic governance, always in defence of economic and financial groups and against workers and the people. finally, it should also be remembered that it was during this presidency that military interventions were resumed, in close cooperation with nato and the usa, as in libya, and that attacks on social and labour rights, including those of immigrants, particularly from africa, were intensified.
mr president, commissioner, this report does indeed point out some of the many weaknesses in the field of risk assessment associated with the cultivation and spread of gmos, weaknesses which also exist when it comes to assessing the health and other socioeconomic effects. if it is true that these vulnerabilities must have implications for cultivation and spread and, in accordance with the precautionary principle, be prohibited, it is also true that the same should also apply to authorization, marketing and consumption. there is no good reason why this should not happen, the market and business cannot take precedence over the protection of health and the environment. but there is another aspect to consider: it is one thing to assess risk, which is something strictly technical or scientific, but it is quite another to decide on the acceptability of risk, and this is a political decision on which, for the sake of democracy, citizens must have a say, through the political structures they control and which are close to them.
mr president, unfortunately, when it comes to genetically modified organisms, the emotional component has prevailed over the rational component, which has conditioned the definition of the desirable community regulatory framework. it is not a question here and now of deciding for or against gmos, but of trying to find a legal and pragmatic solution which will allow us, in due course and after a calm and unprejudiced debate, to go further in the common approach we want. in the present circumstances, the commission's proposal is the lesser of two evils. i regret that the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture have not been taken into account and it is a pity that the commission's position is more balanced than the one that parliament is apparently going to adopt. it would have been useful, and it would have been possible, if this report had been adopted by a wider vote, but i would like to highlight as positive aspects the casuistic decision to ban and the intention to allow, in this new context, a sufficiently long period of time for farmers to take their decisions in good time.
in writing. - following the resignation of silvana koch-mehrin, i support the election of giles chichester of the united kingdom as the new vice-president of the european parliament. i think this is an appropriate choice, given his vast and varied life experience in high-level positions of responsibility and at international level, in business and scientific research, as well as in the political field, where his activity spans two and a half decades, being a member of this parliament since 1994 and president of the european energy forum.
in writing. - i welcome the election of giles chichester as vice-president of the european parliament to replace silvana koch-mehrin.
in writing. - the need to ensure that the european parliament's budget is properly managed and that the budget is properly administered; she is a member of parliament whose experience and ability to communicate are evident, and whose work has been publicly recognised for her contribution to the rapprochement and promotion of friendly relations between her country and turkey.
in writing. - i welcome the election of anni podimata as vice-president of the european parliament to replace lambrinidis.
in writing. - i am in favour of preserving the balance of power between the political groups in the vice-presidencies of parliament.
in writing. - i am in favour of using this procedure (rule 124) in so far as the committee responsible considers it necessary for the european economic and social committee to draw up an opinion on the matter under consideration.
in writing. - i welcome this report as it aims to support the maintenance of employment, in this particular case in denmark. this is a financial aid fund which will support some 950 workers with a total amount of eur 14.18 million.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of the egf for denmark to support the 950 workers made redundant by the odense steel shipyard in the shipbuilding sector.
in writing. - i welcome the approach of the danish authorities to use the egf to finance measures which are additional and innovative compared to those usually offered by employment agencies. i welcome the professional reintegration of dismissed workers into future-oriented and innovative work areas. i voted in favour of the measure to provide general education to about a quarter of the eligible workers, preparing them for new jobs in the knowledge society.
in writing. − the structural changes in world trade patterns and the financial crisis currently plaguing europe continue to make themselves felt and justify the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this time, more than 1300 danish shipping workers were laid off because of the problems mentioned above. i regret the frequency with which such situations occur and i think that policy-makers should monitor them closely and, where possible, try to mitigate their effects in such a way as to prevent workers from being left without a minimum of social protection and at the same time to ensure that this does not hinder, but rather encourages, the reintegration of those workers into the labour market. the worsening personal circumstances of those suffering the problem of dismissal recommend that this complementary support be provided as soon as possible.
in writing. − the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is duly substantiated and justified in the present case of the odense steel shipyard, a shipbuilding company in the municipality of odense in the southern region of denmark, which is affected by the phenomenon of globalisation, having lost important market shares to asia, and by the current financial and economic crisis which has led to the cancellation of orders and the decline in new orders. i would stress that the total amount of eur 14 181 901 requested could be important for the retraining of a large part of the 1 356 workers made redundant, with a view to their professional retraining in future-oriented and innovative work areas, which will allow workers to benefit from their technical knowledge and work experience, particularly in the fields of energy technology, construction and landscaping and robotics.
in writing. - each new request for the mobilisation of the fund gives a new sense of urgency to the measures we have been advocating, namely the effective fight against unemployment, the stimulation of economic activity, the eradication of precariousness and the reduction of working hours without reduction of wages. these are measures that are at the opposite end of the spectrum from the policies being implemented by the eu - as in portugal with the imf-eu plan, which is further increasing unemployment and economic recession. the call for workers is being made to help the 1,356 workers made redundant at the odense steel shipyard in the shipbuilding sector in the municipality of odense in the southern region of denmark. of these, only 950 are potential recipients of assistance, according to the report. it is good to remember that hundreds of workers at the viana do castelo shipyards were recently threatened with dismissal, and we welcome their just struggle to keep their jobs. at the time of this approval, we cannot but reiterate here that a break is needed with the policies and guidelines that are causing the visible economic and social disaster in several eu countries. once again, the palliatives to disaster are necessary, but the causes must be tackled.
in writing. − this report gives the ep's green light to another proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the commission also approved on 6 may 2011, and which is intended to benefit denmark in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis. this is the fifth application and concerns 1356 redundancies, of which 950 are potential recipients of assistance, at the odense steel shipyard, a shipbuilding company in the municipality of odense in the southern region of denmark. once again, after this proposal was examined in the committee on employment and social affairs, we gave it our support, although we regret that the european commission did not intervene before the closure to defend production and employment.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be given to denmark, which has requested assistance in relation to 1356 redundancies (of which 950 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) at the odense steel shipyard in the shipbuilding sector in the municipality of odense in the region of southern denmark.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 6 may 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark. this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of an amount exceeding eur 14 million. it concerns 1 356 redundancies (950 of which were potential beneficiaries) at the odense steel shipyard in the shipbuilding sector in the municipality of odense in the region of southern denmark during the four-month reference period from 13 april to 31 july 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − as part of the implementation of the 2011 budget, an application was submitted for the fifth time for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to support workers who, as a result of the relocation of their companies, due to the phenomenon of global competition, are in a highly fragile situation. in this case, in which denmark is requesting assistance from the fund, there were 1 356 redundancies at odense steel shipyard, and the unforeseen nature of the redundancies and their correlation (causal link) with the world economic and financial scene have been demonstrated. in fact, all the conditions for the fund's intervention, which allows the mobilisation of up to eur 500 million per year, have been met. finally, it is necessary to emphasize the need to promote particularly rapid funding allocation processes, taking into account the situation of local populations in need.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. in 2011, the egf has a budget of eur 500 million, with the european commission considering that eur 14 181 901 should be allocated to denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of the 1 356 workers at odense steel shipyard who were made redundant. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the legal conditions laid down in the above-mentioned regulation are met and that there is a direct causal link between the redundancies and the structural changes in world trade patterns. i would also like to stress that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of the odense steel shipyard, as this is complementary support from europe to alleviate the social difficulties that the workers will face. i therefore understand that the financial envelope should reach the shipbuilding company in the municipality of odense in the southern region of denmark as soon as possible.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as it allocates a solidarity fund of eur 19.54 million for the floods in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic in 2010. the eu solidarity fund aims to overcome difficulties and assist states in unforeseeable situations, such as floods in these countries.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund (eusf) aims to ensure rapid, effective and flexible assistance to the population of a member state, and of countries negotiating its accession, in the event of a major natural disaster. this fund complements public funds from member states in emergency situations, in particular for the urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure, temporary accommodation and emergency services to meet the immediate needs of the population, as well as for the cleaning up of areas affected by the disaster. in 2010, slovenia, croatia and the czech republic were hit by torrential rains that caused severe flooding and caused enormous damage. in the aftermath of the disasters, the countries concerned requested assistance from the eu solidarity fund. in accordance with the eligibility criteria set out in that regulation, the mobilisation of the eusf was approved with the aim of reducing the pain, suffering and loss of those affected by those disasters. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and the czech republic following the heavy rains and floods in these countries in 2010, which once again demonstrates the need to revise the solidarity fund regulation to make it more rapid and flexible.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is intended to help regions struck by natural disasters. torrential rains in august and september 2010 caused extensive damage in croatia, the czech republic and slovenia and justified a request to mobilise the fund by these three countries on the basis of what was described as a regional disaster of extraordinary character. this is support following a disaster affecting the majority of its population and having a severe and long-lasting impact on living conditions and economic stability in the region. i believe that the european union should continue to support the three countries and thus try to reduce the enormous losses they have suffered. solidarity and cohesion are essential values in a europe which has been proclaiming that it wants to be more than just an economic area of free trade.
in writing. − in the framework of the solidarity which should govern relations between member states within the european union and the objectives of the eu solidarity fund, i supported the requests for assistance submitted by slovenia, croatia and the czech republic, for a total amount of eur 19 546 647. as a result of heavy rains in august and september last year, different regions of these countries suffered major damage to infrastructure, businesses, housing and agricultural property. these are situations of extraordinary and natural disasters, the effects of which must be overcome quickly in order to minimise the consequences for the living conditions of the affected populations and the economic stability of the region. in this connection, i would stress the need to ensure greater flexibility and speed in the procedures for implementing the solidarity fund.
in writing. − the report endorses the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to assist three countries - slovenia, the czech republic and croatia - which were affected in september 2010 by heavy rains followed by floods that caused heavy damage, in some cases forcing people to leave their homes and causing significant damage to public infrastructure, businesses, housing and agriculture. as the total losses are below the normal threshold for the mobilisation of the eusf, the request was examined on the basis of the so-called regional disaster criteria of exceptional nature, as provided for in the relevant regulation. we recall that a few months earlier, in may and june 2010, two of these countries - the czech republic and croatia - had already suffered identical disasters, which prompted the mobilisation of the eusf, and the requirements for classifying what happened as a major disaster were then met. naturally, in view of these disasters and their effects (on the territory, the economy and the people), we consider the mobilization of this support to be important and necessary and therefore we voted in favour of the report, while at the same time pointing out that much remains to be done in the field of disaster prevention, including the many proposals we have already made here and which the commission is slow to put into practice.
in writing. − the report endorses the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to assist three countries - slovenia, the czech republic and croatia - which were affected in september 2010 by heavy rains followed by floods that caused heavy damage, in some cases forcing people to leave their homes and causing significant damage to public infrastructure, businesses, housing and agriculture. as the total losses are below the normal threshold for the mobilisation of the eusf, the request was examined on the basis of the so-called regional disaster criteria of exceptional nature, as provided for in the relevant regulation. in may and june 2010, two of these countries - the czech republic and croatia - had already suffered identical disasters, which prompted the mobilisation of the eusf, and the requirements for classifying what happened as a major disaster were then met. naturally, in view of these disasters and their effects (on the territory, the economy and the population), we consider the mobilization of this support to be important and necessary and have therefore voted in favour of the report. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the world, and that it is not the commission's responsibility to make the necessary adjustments.
in writing. − the mobilisation of this solidarity instrument, which has already been used in the past, in particular in my country, through the support sent to madeira following the heavy rains that occurred there in february 2010, makes perfect sense in our attempt to minimise the effects that natural disasters always have on the populations of the countries affected by them.
in writing. − the european commission has proposed to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for slovenia, croatia and the czech republic on the basis of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the agreement allows the mobilisation of the solidarity fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. slovenia, croatia and the czech republic requested the mobilisation of that fund following natural disasters which have resulted in significant material damage. in these countries, in fact, a period of unusually heavy rainfall has caused floods, overflowing of rivers, with serious consequences and damage to the population. the european commission services verified that all applications fulfil the eligibility criteria set out in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. in accordance with these requirements, the commission proposed the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in the amount of eur 7 459 637 for slovenia, eur 1 175 071 for croatia and eur 10 911 939 for the czech republic, for a total of eur 19 546 647. on the basis of these facts i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − on 25 march, the commission presented in parallel amending budget no 2/2011 and a proposal for the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund following the floods and landslides in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic in august and september 2010, totalling eur 19.55 million. the scale of the damage caused and its impact on the populations concerned justify the mobilisation of the fund, but only delay its mobilisation.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to help repair infrastructure affected by the september 2010 floods in slovenia (in this case considered a major disaster). croatia and the czech republic (neighbouring countries) have also recently suffered damage from natural disasters. in the case of slovenia, 137 of the 210 municipalities were affected by heavy rains between 17 and 20 september 2010, with an estimated total damage of eur 251 300 861, which exceeds the amount needed to mobilise the funds. as for croatia and the czech republic, although they do not meet the necessary requirements for autonomous aid, they can benefit from it as neighbouring countries. all the conditions for the use of this solidarity fund are thus met.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report in so far as it suggests amending the council's position so that, among other matters, account is taken of the coverage of needs arising from the mobilisation of the eusf, the creation of the negative reserve and the strengthening of the appropriations for egf payments.
in writing. − in order to effectively mobilise the european union solidarity fund to help croatia, the czech republic and slovenia, which were hit by torrential rains in august and september 2010, the european commission has found it necessary to amend the budget for the financial year 2011. it is for parliament to decide whether such an amending budget is appropriate and whether the aid measure underlying it is appropriate. i support both, taking into account the principles of solidarity, cohesion and transparency, and i hope that the people and economies of the countries affected will be able to recover more quickly thanks to european aid.
in writing. − having regard to the justified application of the european union solidarity fund to help alleviate the damage and effects of the extraordinary disaster situations in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic, i supported this draft amending budget as it is provided for unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen cases.
in writing. − the eu budget for 2011 provided for a certain amount to be used in the eu solidarity fund, which has already been used to help several member states affected by natural disasters. however, in the light of the events in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic, it makes perfect sense to allocate new funds to assist these countries, even though they were not provided for in the initial budget of the fund.
in writing. - under the financial regulation, the commission may present draft amending budgets in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances. following the report a7-0238/2011 detailing the mobilisation of the esf in favour of slovenia, croatia and the czech republic, it is necessary to approve an amendment to the union budget. the conditions for eligibility for assistance from the fund have been verified. the direct losses were calculated by the slovenian, czech and croatian authorities to be eur 19,5 million in total. in the case of slovenia, the direct losses exceed the normal threshold of 0,6% of gni for mobilisation of the eusf and the event can be considered as a major natural disaster. in the cases of the czech republic and croatia, where the direct losses do not exceed the normal threshold, the specific condition that a country affected by the same large-scale disaster as a neighbouring country may exceptionally benefit from the eusf was considered to be fulfilled. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which will enable slovenia, croatia and the czech republic to cope with the serious material damage caused by natural disasters.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to help repair infrastructure affected by the september 2010 floods in slovenia (in this case considered a major disaster). croatia and the czech republic (neighbouring countries) have also recently suffered damage from natural disasters. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. - i welcome this report as it aims to support the maintenance of employment, in this particular case in denmark. this is a financial aid fund which will support some 825 workers with a total amount of eur 6.24 million.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of the egf for denmark to support the 825 workers made redundant by the machine and equipment manufacturer lm glasfiber.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that, following parliament's repeated requests, the 2011 budget contains for the first time payment appropriations in the amount of eur 47 608 950 under the budget line of the egf (04 05 01).
in writing. − the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector has also been affected by a reduction in its workforce as a result of the financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns. 1650 workers have been made redundant, of whom 825 will be eligible for aid. sectors and unemployed workers are changing, raising concern about the potential for european growth and the sustainability of its socioeconomic model. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the fund, hoping that the union and the member states will be able to reverse this worrying trend and that it will become less and less necessary.
in writing. - faced with the effects of the global economic and financial crisis on the european wind turbine market, with demand in europe falling sharply in favour of the asian option, lm glasfiber closed down its machinery and equipment manufacturing units in three municipalities in the region of south denmark (syddanmark) and started to develop its business through partnerships in china. as a result, 1 650 workers were made redundant at the beginning of 2010 at lm glasfiber. given the importance of the re-skilling of this workforce for the local and european productive fabric, i supported the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 247 415 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for programmes to support the reintegration of these dismissed workers into the labour market.
in writing. - another request for the mobilisation of the fund. these requests have been made in succession and thousands of workers have been made redundant in several member states since the instrument was introduced. this time, another request was made to denmark, which submitted a request for assistance in respect of 1650 redundancies at lm glasfiber, 825 of which were potential recipients of assistance. we are once again supporting this mobilisation, but we are once again insisting that we must intervene before this company is shut down again, in defence of production and employment. more than palliatives, a change of direction and policies is needed in this eu. the proposal we made during the debate on the 2011 budget for the creation of a european programme for employment and sustainable development, allocating 1% of eu gdp, to be supplemented by funds from the member states, with a view to real convergence, promoting the potential of each country, the sustainable use of its resources, and focusing on production and the creation of jobs with rights, is now becoming more urgent. the path the eu is taking is unfortunately quite different (and dangerous), leading only to more and more unemployment and recession.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be given to denmark, which has requested assistance in relation to 1 650 redundancies (of which 825 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in the company lm glasfiber in nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in three municipalities in the region of southern denmark.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 6 may 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the fourth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 247 415 from the egf to support 1 650 redundancies (of which 825 are potential recipients of assistance) in the enterprise lm glasfiber in division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) of nace rev. 2 in three municipalities in the region of southern denmark (syddanmark) during the four-month reference period from 1 january to 30 april 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − as part of the implementation of the 2011 budget, an application was submitted for the fourth time for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to support workers who, as a result of the relocation of their companies, due to the phenomenon of global competition, are in a highly fragile situation. in this case, in which denmark is requesting assistance from the fund, there were 1 650 redundancies by lm glasfiber, and the unforeseen nature of the redundancies and their correlation (causal link) with the world economic and financial scene have been demonstrated. in fact, all the conditions for the fund's intervention, which allows the mobilisation of up to eur 500 million per year, have been met. finally, it is necessary to emphasize the need to promote particularly rapid funding allocation processes, taking into account the situation of local populations in need.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. lm glasfiber, based in the syddanmark region of denmark, faced serious difficulties due to the changing patterns of trade in wind turbines, the economic and financial crisis and the rapid decline in demand in the eu, as opposed to asia. therefore, lm glasfiber considered it appropriate to reduce the facilities in lunderskov and hammelev and to establish a strategic partnership with a chinese company. the commission proposes to allocate eur 6 247 415 to the machinery and equipment manufacturing company to provide financial support for the 1 650 workers made redundant, of whom 825 are potential beneficiaries of direct assistance. finally, i would like to stress that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of lm glasfiber, that the financial support should reach the workers concerned as quickly as possible and that the ec should make its best efforts to speed up the process of activating the egf for the benefit of the member states.
in writing. − i welcome this report, as i recognise the need, already advocated by the european parliament in 2007, for a package of commitments for the creation of a second generation schengen information system. an agency is needed to ensure the operability and security of sis ii, vis and eurodac data, while also ensuring good economies of scale in the management of the three systems, both from the budgetary and human resources point of view.
in writing. − in june 2009, the european commission presented a set of two legislative initiatives with the aim of establishing an agency with responsibility for managing large-scale information systems within the area of freedom, security and justice. the creation of this agency responds to the request made by the european parliament in 2007 and is the best solution from a financial, operational and institutional point of view. this report, which i support, argues that the agency's objectives are purely technical and operational management and that it should not have access to data or the capacity to take policy decisions such as the creation of new systems or the possibility of interoperability between different systems. it also states that there should be no possibility of unauthorised access to the data, that all data circulating on the network should be encrypted and that the management of the crypto device can never be outsourced to a private company, as is the case today. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, on having been able to reach an agreement at first reading.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the creation of this agency for the operational management of sis ii, vis and eurodac and other instruments to be created in the area of freedom, security and justice is undoubtedly the best option for the medium and long term functioning of the eu. i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr carlos coelho, on his excellent report, the conclusions of which i am very pleased with. the agency will act as a platform for more effective information flow and therefore better results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by approving the creation of the european agency which will ensure the operational management of the schengen information system. this agency will contribute to improving the level of security in the eu's area of freedom, security and justice and will facilitate the sharing of information between authorities controlling the union's external borders.
in writing. - in principle, i believe that the creation of european agencies should be based on effective criteria of rationality and sound operational management. this is clearly one of those cases. its creation is of a nature which clearly justifies the appearance of such an organism. there is a real need, as the rapporteur, whom i welcome, says, to ensure the operational management of sis, vis and eurodac and parts of the communication infrastructure at the end of the transitional period and, possibly, of other large-scale information systems in the field of justice, freedom and security, subject to the adoption of separate legal instruments. this single managing authority will be able to help improve coordination between systems, enhance the european response capacity in highly sensitive matters, provide training for technicians and experts with a high level of knowledge on all these issues and, not least, make better use of resources. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done.
in writing. − this report aims to ensure the establishment of an agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, such as the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and the eurodac fingerprint comparison system, as well as parts of the communication infrastructure. it is an agency with purely technical and operational management objectives and tasks, without the capacity to take policy decisions, such as the creation of new systems or the interoperability between the various systems. this proposal, for which i congratulate the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, whom i congratulate on having succeeded in reaching an agreement at first reading, strengthens the rules on data protection and the integrity and security of personal data, as well as the role of the european parliament in its democratic control.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to set up a european agency, based in tallinn, estonia, whose purpose will be to ensure the management of the schengen system. a database will be set up to store fingerprint records of asylum seekers and a visa information system will be set up. the possibility of creating other schemes in the schengen area is also mentioned. we are aware of our fundamental disagreements with the eu's approach to the areas covered in this report. the necessary preservation of rights, freedoms and guarantees, which are vital to the genuinely democratic functioning of states, is not, in our view, properly safeguarded. we reject the proliferation of databases and information on people in the name of supposed security. this is a dangerous path. on the other hand, in the current economic and social context, we do not think that the establishment of this agency is one of the eu's priorities. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. the report adopted today aims to set up a european agency, based in tallinn, estonia, to manage the schengen system through a database containing fingerprints of asylum seekers and the visa information system. the report also refers to the possibility of creating other systems in the schengen area. we are concerned about the proliferation of european agencies and, especially at a time of economic and social crisis, we believe that the creation of another agency for this purpose should not be one of the priorities of the european union. we also believe that it is essential to ensure the preservation of rights and freedoms which are vital for the genuinely democratic functioning of states. we reject the proliferation of databases and of information on individuals in the name of supposed security. we know this is a dangerous path. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − the creation of a european agency to ensure the operational management of the schengen information system, the visa information system, a database of fingerprints of asylum seekers (eurodac) and other systems in the schengen area was approved by the european parliament today. the agency, based in tallinn, estonia, is expected to start its work in summer 2012. the purpose of this agency is to ensure secure, rapid and permanent communication (24 hours a day, 365 days a year) between the central services and all the member states that make up the various systems.
in writing. − the european commission presented in june 2009 a set of two legislative initiatives aimed at establishing an agency with responsibility for managing large-scale information systems within the framework of the area of freedom, security and justice. it was a proposal for a regulation on the matters covered by the first pillar in sis, vis and eurodac and a proposal for a decision on the matters covered by the third pillar in these three systems. however, with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, these initiatives lost their meaning and on 19 march 2010 the commission presented a new proposal which essentially corresponds to a revised version of the previous proposal for a regulation with a lisbon perspective and integrating the aspects relating to the 3rd pillar. i welcome the work of my colleague carlos coelho, who has tried in several articles to strengthen the role of the european parliament and to ensure greater transparency. in the same vein, it has sought to strengthen the rules on data protection and the integrity and security of personal data by strengthening the role of the european data protection supervisor. these are the facts which motivated my vote in favour.
in writing. − the creation of an agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, with a view to the management of sis ii, vis and eurodac, aims to optimise the resources available, seeking to achieve economies of scale. in a matter of such a sensitive nature, it must be ensured that the agency is provided with the financial means necessary for its work, which to a large extent provide the desired autonomy, and that the member states are associated with its operational process by exercising a supervisory function. the european parliament's monitoring role must also be safeguarded, particularly as particularly sensitive issues such as the need to protect citizens' personal data are dealt with in these areas.
in writing. − the proposal aims to establish an agency responsible for the operational management of the existing second generation information systems in the area of freedom, justice and security, such as the schengen information system (sis ii), the visa information system (vis) and eurodac. these systems are currently operated by the european commission, but it is not its responsibility to operate computer systems on a larger scale. the legal instruments relating to sis ii and vis actually provide for the need to establish a management authority capable of ensuring the continuity and operational management of the systems and the organisation of the various data in the long term. in addition to these operational tasks, the agency, which is to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, is also empowered to adopt security measures, draw up reports and provide training, as well as to publish and monitor information. i support the rapporteur in recalling that the agency cannot be given the power to make political decisions or decisions concerning the interoperability of systems. their subject matter and their responsibilities should relate only to the technical aspect of the operational management of the information systems.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, since the exemption or reduction of customs duties for certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments (fod) is in line with the specific measures needed to remedy the isolation, energy dependence, small size of the markets and low level of exports which characterize these regions.
in writing. - in view of the increased difficulties of the outermost regions, which are heavily affected by insularity, remoteness from the major markets, difficult terrain and climate, small area and heavy economic dependence on a small number of products and activities, i support this initiative which allows the application of a differential system of the rate of the maritime concession for certain products manufactured in the four french overseas departments (fdom). it is essential to provide additional stimulus to economic stability and employment promotion in these regions, where unemployment is close to 30% and revenue from the granting of aid represents between 37 and 48% of the local authority budget. i therefore support the continuation of these measures beyond 2014.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, given the importance of adopting specific measures in favour of the outermost regions and taking into account their economic and social situation and the existence of permanent disadvantages which hamper the development of these regions and fully justify this type of measures. in this connection, we support the authorisation of the french authorities to provide, until 1 july 2014, for a system of differentials in the charging of the maritime toll on certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments (fod), with a view to protecting local production and employment from foreign competition. we support the rapporteur's call for the commission to propose ways of permanently perpetuating these measures beyond 2014, so that the outermost regions concerned are not confronted every ten years with a situation of economic insecurity. these schemes are extremely important for protecting the outermost regions, given their specific characteristics. similar measures should be implemented not only in the outermost regions but in all member states, in particular in countries with weaker and more vulnerable economies such as portugal, in order to increase and protect their production and employment.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, given the importance of adopting specific measures in favour of the outermost regions in view of their economic and social situation and the existence of permanent disadvantages which hamper the development of these regions and fully justify this type of measure. in this connection, we support the authorisation of the french authorities to provide, until 1 july 2014, for a system of differentials in the charging of the maritime toll on certain products manufactured in the french overseas departments (fod), with a view to protecting local production and employment from foreign competition. we support the rapporteur's call for the commission to propose ways of permanently perpetuating these measures beyond 2014, so that the outermost regions concerned are not confronted every ten years with a situation of economic insecurity. these schemes are extremely important for protecting the outermost regions, taking into account their specific characteristics. similar measures should be implemented not only in the outermost regions but in all member states, particularly in countries with weaker and more vulnerable economies, such as portugal, increasing and protecting their production and employment.
in writing. − the eu treaties authorise the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, to adopt specific measures in favour of the outermost regions, taking account of the economic and social situation of these regions. in reality, the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, remoteness from the large markets, small size, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products, seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the adoption of appropriate measures. this type of exemption makes perfect sense in helping these regions to cope more adequately with their economic challenges. we think, however, that it is appropriate for this type of exemption to become definitive and not have to be reassessed every ten years, leaving the peripheral regions in a situation of real economic insecurity.
in writing. - article 349 tfeu authorises the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, to adopt specific measures in favour of the outermost regions, taking account of their economic and social situation. in fact, the existence of permanent handicaps such as insularity, a well-known reality for the portuguese residents of the azores and madeira, combined with the remoteness from the large markets, the small size of the azores, the difficult terrain and climate, and the economic dependence on a small number of products, seriously hampers the development of these regions and fully justifies the adoption of appropriate measures. it is on this basis that france bases the so-called "octroi de mer" system, which has proved to be largely positive in relation to the objectives pursued, in particular the positive impact on the maintenance of employment. the commission proposal, accompanied by a proposal for a council decision, suggests that the scheme be extended to 50 products for guyana. the european parliament supports this proposal without amendments. in view of the specific characteristics of the economies of the outermost regions and in view of the fact that the granting of aid is in accordance with community law and is an economic stimulus, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the scheme for granting aid for the outermost regions is a differentiated tariff scheme for certain products from the french overseas departments. this is a scheme which supports regions where such measures can give a decisive boost to the local economy, where high unemployment rates are often found. the rapporteur also suggests that these measures - which have been lacking up to now - should be institutionalised as permanent support mechanisms for regions with problems of this kind.
in writing. - the special situation of the outermost regions requires the adoption of specific measures in favour of the outermost regions which take due account of the economic and social situation of these regions. the constraints and permanent difficulties such as insularity, remoteness from markets and scarcity of land seriously hamper the development of these regions and justify measures which can help to reduce the effects of existing constraints. this possibility is enshrined in the treaty itself, which enshrines the special status of the outermost regions in article 349. it is on this basis that the decision on the measures for granting the right of withdrawal is based, in which france is authorised, in respect of its four overseas departments, until 1 july 2014 to provide for a differentiated system of charges for the tax on granting the right of withdrawal on certain products of these departments. i believe that special attention should be paid to the needs and difficulties of the outermost regions, and that this should be reflected in the adoption of specific and appropriate measures for all the outermost regions of the european union which contribute to promoting the development of these and other outermost regions and to better integrating them into the european internal market. i therefore voted in favour of the document in plenary.
in writing. − i welcome this report, which is the result of complex negotiation between all political groups, in that it emphasises the importance of the universal social inclusion obligations and calls on the commission to provide guidance on how best to adopt the revised universal services directive. i would also stress the importance of broadband access for all and the creation of a common european emergency number 112.
in writing. the concept of universal service was developed by the european institutions and defines a set of general interest requirements to which certain activities must conform. the obligations laid down are intended to ensure universal access for all to certain essential services of good quality at an affordable price. the present report, which i supported, aims to assess recent developments in the basic concept of universal service enshrined in the universal service directive in the context of universal broadband access. the report also focuses on the single emergency number 112, which was set up in 1991 in the context of the single market for the free movement of persons with the aim of ensuring single access to emergency services throughout the european union. it is therefore important to give visibility to the 112 emergency number, to improve the effectiveness of hotlines, in order to protect public health and to ensure effective civil protection. equally important is the commission's decision to carry out an in-depth study of the provision of internet services.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i consider universal service obligations (usos) to be important as a safety net for social inclusion. i support the broadband for all objectives of the digital agenda and am convinced that universal broadband access helps citizens and businesses to fully enjoy the benefits of the digital single market, including by improving social inclusion. i believe that the european emergency number 112 can save lives and increase the protection of eu citizens; and i believe that the commission should ensure that all sectors of society have access to this service, including people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups.
in writing. − universal service should provide all citizens, even in the most isolated and peripheral areas, with access to essential services that enable their participation in society, at affordable prices and without distorting competition, thus meeting the objectives of the digital agenda, with the expectation that by 2013 basic broadband coverage will be achieved for all citizens of the union, enabling them to fully enjoy the benefits of the digital single market. the creation in 1991 of the european emergency number 112 was of the utmost importance in allowing citizens to contact the emergency services on the same number, regardless of the member state in which they are located. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the new rules on the free movement of persons, in particular the rules on the free movement of goods and services, the rules on the free movement of persons and the rules on the free movement of services. given that several recent disasters have demonstrated that early warning of citizens in the event of emergencies and of imminent or ongoing major disasters is necessary to reduce human suffering and loss of life, it is essential to improve the quality of implementation of this emergency support service, in particular in terms of information, accessibility, interoperability and response times.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the universal service and the 112 emergency number, because it provides for the development of a communication strategy to raise public awareness of the existence and use of the 112 number, as well as measures to improve the accessibility, quality and efficiency of this service.
in writing. - in a society such as the west, where the media and communications proliferate and the technology associated with them evolves at a rapid pace, it is clear that the lack of conditions for some sections of the population to use similar media and thus to access contact with others and the information they convey is a factor of social exclusion. the establishment of european targets for network coverage, in particular for broadband, requires coordination between the union and the member states and between the member states and the operators in order to achieve the desired universal coverage. i was not aware that the european emergency number was not sufficiently publicized, since in my country it is quite widespread, and i hope that this trend will be reversed, allowing more and more people to have access to it and to the emergency and rescue services which are made available through it.
in writing. − the european emergency number 112 was introduced in 1991 to complement national emergency numbers and make emergency services more accessible in all eu member states. however, according to a eurobarometer survey, only 26% of eu citizens currently spontaneously identify 112 as the appropriate telephone number to call the police, fire or emergency medical services anywhere in the european union. i understand that by 2020 that percentage should reach 80%. this is a service that can save lives and its universality is of fundamental importance for the protection of citizens, with particular emphasis on free movement within the european union. in order to ensure the greatest possible efficiency, better service to victims and to combat calls for false requests for help, i also advocate georeferencing calls by requiring mobile and fixed telecommunications operators to automatically ensure the identification and exact location of the persons making the calls. it is also important to promote an inclusive service, ensuring the technical conditions necessary to ensure an adequate response to people with disabilities including a deaf-mute , as well as responding to citizens of any nationality or foreign language.
in writing. − the report assesses the provision of the european emergency number 112 and analyses developments in relation to universal broadband access. the broadband for all objectives of the digital agenda are supported, considering that universal broadband access will improve social inclusion, create new opportunities for businesses and boost employment. the report also supports the emergency number 112. we consider universal services such as the european emergency number 112 to be important, and we have already taken initiatives in this parliament. to make it more effective, it needs to be more widely disseminated and of higher quality. according to the report itself, only 26% of the population is aware of this emergency number. as regards information technology, we are drawing attention to the approximately 100 million people in the eu who are at risk of poverty. it is not necessary to mention here the obvious difficulties in accessing the new technologies that these people will have. this is why concrete measures and actions are needed to enable everyone to have access, on an equal footing, to the emergency number, broadband and the new information technologies in general.
in writing. − this report aims to assess both the provision of the european emergency number 112 and developments in relation to universal broadband access. the rapporteur supports the broadband for all objectives of the digital agenda, considering that universal broadband access will improve social inclusion, create new opportunities for businesses and boost employment, just as it supports the emergency number and the universal service. we consider universal services such as the european emergency number 112 to be important. however, to make it more effective, more information and better quality are needed, which requires special measures, as only 26% of the population are aware of this emergency number. on the other hand, as we said in the plenary debate, all this must not also serve to increase social exclusion, since there are about 100 million people at risk of poverty, with difficulties in accessing the new technologies. it is necessary to take account of concrete measures and actions which will enable everyone to have access, on an equal footing, to the emergency number, broadband and the new information technologies in general.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to assess recent developments relating to the basic concept of universal service enshrined in the universal service directive and in the context of new developments, including universal access to broadband, the coordination of approaches and their financing, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable people and consumers with disabilities. the report also focuses on the single european emergency number 112, introduced to enable citizens to contact emergency services using a single number from anywhere in the eu. it is essential to give the number 112 the support it deserves for the sake of the citizens, otherwise it will become useless.
in writing. − this report, which i voted in favour of, aims to assess recent developments relating to the basic concept of universal service enshrined in the universal service directive and in the context of new developments, including universal broadband access, the coordination of approaches and their financing, taking into account the specific needs of vulnerable people and consumers with disabilities. the report also focuses on the single european emergency number 112, introduced to enable citizens to contact emergency services using a single number from anywhere in the eu. the european parliament, and many stakeholders, have repeatedly stressed the need to raise awareness of 112. the poor quality of the service provided to citizens through the 112 number in some member states is also mentioned. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to give the number 112 the support it deserves for the sake of the citizens, otherwise this instrument may risk becoming useless.
in writing. the universal service directive was intended to define a set of universal services which, as the name suggests, should be provided to all citizens at a good price-benefit ratio. in the current context, it highlights the need for broadband as a tool for a networked economy at the service of european citizens. however, other instruments should not be overlooked and should be universally available: the commission's proposal is to provide a single european emergency number, 112, to help those who are most vulnerable for various reasons: a disease that makes them more vulnerable, an accidental problem, because they are in tourism. it is a global reading which deserves to be made, in the face of a europe at the service of the people.
in writing. - the importance of a single european emergency number, 112, with particular emphasis on its visibility and on raising awareness among citizens, is highlighted in the report. the efficiency of the emergency lines, the handling of calls and the quality of care after the call to 112 must be improved. the purpose of the adopted document was to assess the concept of universal service as it emerges from the universal service directive. member states should ensure a universal service in all technologies relating to broadband access. the european commission is called upon to ensure that 112 is effectively operational throughout the eu and accessible to all citizens. the number should be accessible to people with different types of disabilities and vulnerable groups by providing devices for users with hearing or visual impairments, text or sign language retransmission services or other special equipment. in this respect, i think it is appropriate to improve the reliability of information on the location of the appellant. it will be essential that the new european telecommunications rules require the updating of existing technologies for better automatic call location.
in writing. - i welcome this report, particularly the agreement reached on consumer rights in terms of access, quality and information and safeguarding the role of traditional trade. the most significant and valuable amendments to this report are undoubtedly those by the s&d group on improving working conditions, combating the shadow economy in the retail sector and implementing appropriate labour and social legislation to combat tax evasion and the informal economy, with the aim of maintaining employment levels and investing in the training of workers.
in writing. − the retail sector represents 20% of european smes, generates 4.2% of eu gdp and employs almost 20 million people. it is a key sector for the relaunch of the single market and for the pursuit of the europe 2020 targets. despite the progress made in this area, this report, which i supported, calls for measures to strengthen the retail market, namely: opening markets to businesses and eliminating the obstacles and difficulties that many businesses, especially smes, face; exploiting the full potential of electronic commerce by increasing business and consumer confidence; and improving the single euro payments area (sepa) system to develop a payment service accessible to all types of cards that increases transparency in transaction costs and eliminates unjustified interbank fees, ensuring faster bank transfers within the eu. finally, i would like to stress the european commission's idea of presenting a european retail action plan which sets out a strategy for addressing the outstanding issues, with recommendations at sectoral level.
in writing. − the retail market is undoubtedly a driver of growth, competitiveness and employment in europe and can make a decisive contribution to the pursuit of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. it is essential to build a more efficient, transparent and equitable retail market through an active contribution of retailers and suppliers themselves, to be complemented at community level by enhanced coordination between the different policies and by a comprehensive and long-term approach to this sector. we must tackle the remaining obstacles to the free movement of goods and services in the eu, namely the existence of more restrictive national rules, divergent interpretations and inadequate application of the rules, which ultimately limit the potential of the single market to serve european citizens and businesses. at the same time, the competition rules must be applied correctly, preventing abuse of a dominant position or unfair trading practices, and, if necessary, provide for access to more simplified, less time-consuming and more transparent infringement procedures. i support the excellent report by mrs corazza bildt and her call for an integrated european action plan for retail trade.
in writing. − the proper functioning of the internal market is essential for growth, competitiveness and employment. it is therefore important that all obstacles to its proper functioning be removed, especially at the level of the retail sector, which employs almost 20 million people, generates 4.2% of the union's gdp and represents 20% of european smes. the report identifies five priority areas for a more efficient retail market: (i) ensuring greater competitiveness, growth and employment; (ii) removing the remaining obstacles to the free movement of goods and services; (iii) opening up markets to consumers and businesses; (iv) taking stock of contractual and commercial practices between businesses; (v) enhancing efficiency and innovative practices. i believe that the removal of barriers and the effective completion of the internal market are urgently needed as a means of boosting growth and employment in a post-crisis europe.
in writing. the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, including the retail trade, is recognised as playing a decisive role in boosting the economy, with particular emphasis on promoting employment and the so-called middle class. retail trade is of paramount importance for economic and social cohesion, and i therefore support the call for an integrated european action plan for retail trade, with a view to defining a framework for action with concrete and pragmatic proposals to resolve the outstanding issues. i therefore commend the author of this report for her contribution to removing barriers to the free movement of goods and services, defending the interests of businesses and consumers and promoting their access to the market, increasing efficiency and sustainable consumption. in this way we are fostering competitiveness, growth and employment.
in writing. the report deals with a sector whose problems are all too obvious. retail trade, particularly in countries where the business fabric is dominated by micro and small family-type enterprises, is faced with the effects of the decline in the purchasing power of the general population, coupled with the overwhelming weight and unfair competition of the large retail sector. these are problems and difficulties which threaten the viability and future continuity of the sector, which plays, it should be remembered, a socially relevant role, particularly (but not only) outside the main urban areas. but the report does not address the root causes of this situation - a necessary condition for amending it. it ignores the effects of the deregulation and liberalisation of trade that the eu has been actively promoting, its effects on the proliferation of large supermarkets and the disproportionate increase in their power and influence, it does not address the consequences of liberalisation and privatisation, the reduction in the purchasing power of the population, the worsening of interest rates and the difficulties in accessing credit. the path is exactly the opposite: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - this report is shrouded in many contradictions. it is true that the retail trade is under serious attack, especially in countries where it is carried on by micro and small family businesses and where, in some cases, the purchasing power of the population is declining, and especially in less urban areas where they play an important social role and where there are times of distress. but the report forgets the root cause of this situation and fails to properly criticize the liberalization of trade, the proliferation of large supermarkets, the consequences of liberalization and privatization, the decline in the purchasing power of the population, the worsening of interest rates and the credit difficulties. on the contrary, i did. the emphasis on the creation of the internal market is aggravating the difficulties of small retail businesses. that is why we did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − retail trade plays a very important role in developing a sustainable economy and should continue to promote sustainable consumption patterns by providing easy access to quality products. the retail sector needs to invest more in developing solutions in the areas of logistics and transport and energy efficiency as well as packaging and waste disposal. it is time to recognise the achievements as well as the specific problems and challenges facing the retail sector. we must therefore draw up an integrated european action plan for retail trade, with a view to defining a framework for action with concrete and pragmatic proposals to resolve the outstanding issues, thus making the retail trade market more efficient and fairer.
in writing. - this report deals with job creation through the elimination of frontiers, barriers and burdens which restrict trade in europe. in fact, the retail sector, as the report states, is a pillar of the european economy, a market which represents 4.2% of the union's gdp, 20% of european smes and employs almost 20 million people. a sector of this size deserves our attention and the creation of the necessary measures to support and develop it. the growing economic nationalism we are witnessing is making it difficult to trade in the eu. while old barriers remain, new ones are created, to the detriment of the business climate as well as investment and job creation by foreign retailers. at this time of crisis and in the face of these difficulties, i believe it is essential that dialogue be intensified at all levels to improve understanding, restore confidence and respond to the difficulties of smes. it is necessary to identify the specific problems and challenges facing the retail sector. i voted in favour of agreeing also to the call for an integrated european action plan for retail trade.
in writing. the retail sector is perhaps the most visible aspect of the community action programme: not only because of its importance for the economy, but also because it represents the moment when trade brings together professionals and consumers, when the reality of the common space becomes tangible. however, this is an area which raises delicate problems which merit consideration: in this context, some member states have imposed obstacles indirectly, such as the introduction of particularly stringent packaging rules to the marketing of foreign products; the white marks have raised concerns among the holders of rights to the benchmark marks; on the other hand, some retailers (often integrated into distribution networks) have, by virtue of their strong bargaining power, crushed the margins of producers. these are cases which could jeopardize a free and competitive single market and one of the fundamental aims of the community project. the rapporteur has said that this is a point that must be on the agenda.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report as it complies with article 15 (1) of the financial regulation and therefore enters in the 2011 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2010 financial year amounting to eur 4 539 394 283.
in writing. − the budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 was in surplus, estimated at eur 4 539 394 283.00. in order to make it transition to the 2011 budget, the commission presented a draft amending budget on 15 april 2011. i was not informed of any reason for this transition and on the basis of the information available to me i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − this draft amending budget enters in the 2011 budget the surplus of eur 4 539 394 283 resulting from the implementation of the 2010 financial year, which reduces the overall contribution of the member states to the 2011 budget of the european union. i voted in favour of this draft amending budget because it complies with the provisions of article 15 of the financial regulation. i believe, however, that the european union must take the necessary measures so that in future the surplus amounts in the eu budget will no longer be credits for the contributing member states but will instead be an automatic increase in the budget for the following year, thus enabling the community to increase its capacity to intervene in support of the european project and socioeconomic cohesion.
in writing. − this draft amending budget is intended to enter the 2010 budget surplus in the 2011 budget, in accordance with article 15 of the financial regulation. the report considers that the part of the revenue calculated from interest on late payment and fines should not be considered as surplus and should therefore not be deducted from the member states' contributions and that these revenues [...] should be returned directly and reinvested in the eu budget, a position which the council has been critical of. however, parliament takes its word for it and approves the council's position without any amendments. the decision thus consists in reducing the 2010 surplus (eur 4.54 billion) in the member states' contributions to the 2011 budget accordingly. this means that the reductions in question will be much greater in countries with stronger economies than in countries with weaker economies. the example of germany (with a reduction of eur 923 million) compared with portugal (with a reduction of eur 59 million) only exacerbates the injustices in the distribution of these surpluses and calls into question the principle of the redistributive function of the community budget, which underlies any genuine cohesion policy.
in writing. − this draft amending budget is intended to enter the 2010 budget surplus in the 2011 budget, in accordance with article 15 of the financial regulation. parliament expressed its firm belief that the part of the revenue calculated from interest on late payment and fines should not be considered as surplus and should therefore not be deducted from the member states' contributions, and that it considered instead that these revenues [...] should be returned directly and reinvested in the eu budget, a position which the council was critical of. however, parliament takes its word for it and approves the council's position without any amendments. given that the eu decides that this 2010 surplus (eur 4.54 billion) is reduced accordingly in the member states' contributions to the 2011 budget, this means that the reductions in question will be much larger in countries with stronger economies than in countries with weaker economies. the example of germany (with a reduction of eur 923 million) compared with portugal (with a reduction of eur 59 million) is that it ends up exacerbating inequalities in the distribution of these surpluses, preventing a real cohesion policy. that is why we did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − with the surplus resulting from the implementation of the eu budget in 2010, it is now possible to proceed with an amending budget in 2011, which provides for a reduction in deliveries by the member states. the fair distribution of the surplus allows most member states to see reduced amounts to be transferred to the 2011 community budget, which in times of crisis is always a positive development.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the amending budget. in accordance with article 37 of the financial regulation, the commission may present preliminary draft amending budgets in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances. in accordance with paragraph 3 of that article, the budgetary authority shall take its decisions in the light of urgency. in accordance with article 15 (3) of the financial regulation, the surplus or deficit for each financial year is to be entered as revenue or expenditure in the budget for the following financial year in an amending budget to be presented by the commission within 15 days of the provisional accounts being presented. draft amending budget no 3/2011 is intended to enter in the 2011 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the financial year 2010, amounting to eur 4 539 394 283. consequently, the overall contribution of the member states to the 2011 eu budget will be reduced accordingly. portugal shall contribute by minus eur 59 119 421.
in writing. - amending budget no 3/2011 relates to the surplus of eur 4.54 billion resulting from the 2010 financial year. it should be recalled that in 2010 there was already a surplus of 2.25 billion. it should be recalled that delays in implementation and the consequent payments of approved projects, interest earned on delays in project implementation and fines levied on member states for failure to apply or breach community rules contribute to the formation of the surplus. it should be noted that of the above-mentioned surplus, eur 1.8 billion correspond to fines and interest incurred in the delay in the implementation of projects. this surplus shall be calculated annually and deducted proportionally from the contributions of each member state to the union budget. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of proportionality to the payment of the surplus resulting from interest on late implementation of projects and fines levied on member states. the adoption of the amending budget is essential for the determination of the amount by which each member state is to contribute to the 2011 budget, otherwise there will be further delays in payments for projects that are being implemented or in the process of being implemented.
in writing. − as there were surpluses in the implementation of the 2010 budget, the commission proposed a preliminary draft amending budget in accordance with article 37 of the financial regulation. in the case in point, this was a surplus of some eur 4,54 billion. the amounts thus indicated, in accordance with the commission proposal, will be deducted from the contributions which the member states are required to make to the community budget.
in writing. the draft amending budget voted today aims to enter the surplus of the previous year in the 2011 budget. the surplus of eur 4,54 billion is the result of exchange rate differences, revenue implementation and expenditure implementation. in accordance with the financial regulation, the commission may present preliminary draft amending budgets in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances. the overall contribution of the member states to the 2011 budget will thus be reduced by eur 4,54 billion, as this amount, which corresponds to the 2010 surplus, will be returned to the member states. the proposal, which i voted for and which parliament is determined to promote and defend in the forthcoming negotiations on the annual and multiannual budgets, results in a reduction of 59 million euro in portugal's contribution to the community budget in this particular case.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the application of consumer protection legislation, and it should be noted that the main difference with the commission's initial proposal is the introduction of a review clause, according to which the commission has to carry out an assessment of the operational mechanisms and, in 2014, submit a legislative proposal with a more substantial revision of this regulation.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 aims to combat illegal crossborder trade which disrupts the proper functioning of the internal market and undermines consumer confidence. that regulation establishes a european-level network of public authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws in the member states (cpc network). the regulation partially harmonises the investigatory and enforcement powers of the authorities by establishing mechanisms for the exchange of relevant information and the adoption of measures to put an end to infringements in cross-border situations. on the basis of recent developments in consumer protection legislation, this report, which has my support, deals with the proposal to amend and update the regulation. legislation that is not relevant in the field of consumer protection should be deleted and references to old legislation that is no longer in force should be updated.
in writing. − consumer rights and their protection in community law is one of the main pillars of the functioning of the internal market. while i believe that adequate consumer protection and safety is fundamental to the proper functioning of markets and trade, i also believe that such protection should be as uniform as possible in the union. at a time when many transactions and contracts are cross-border and online transactions are gaining new relevance, cooperation between the various public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection legislation should be as close as possible in order to ensure a higher level of protection and to increase trust.
in writing. − in the context of the internal market and the safeguarding of the interests of european citizens, the harmonisation and improvement of consumer protection mechanisms is of the utmost importance for the consolidation of european integration and for confidence in the economic and legislative system. in this context, i support this report, which updates and streamlines existing legislation in this area, in particular regulation (ec) no 2006/2004, which aims to combat illegal cross-border trade, establish a european network of public authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws in the member states and harmonise the investigatory and enforcement powers of authorities to eliminate breaches in eu legislation that protects consumers' interests.
in writing. − the regulation aims to remove barriers to crossborder cooperation between public enforcement authorities to detect, investigate and bring to an end or ban infringements of eu consumer protection legislation. only in this way will it be possible to effectively tackle dishonest cross-border traders who disrupt the smooth functioning of the internal market and thus increase consumer confidence in accepting cross-border offers, so as to prevent sellers and suppliers from evading enforcement at the expense of compliant sellers and suppliers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws. the aim of this regulation is to remove barriers to crossborder cooperation between public enforcement authorities in order to detect, investigate and bring to an end or prohibit infringements within the eu of consumer interests. seven years after its entry into force, situations needing to be changed have been identified. however, there is still insufficient information on the functioning of the regulation and this information can only be obtained through an in-depth analysis. the commission is currently preparing the second report on the application of the regulation, which will be published later this year. according to the report, the commission also planned to carry out an external evaluation followed by a public consultation of stakeholders. i agree with the need, identified by the rapporteur, to include a review clause in the regulation. this clause obliges the commission to step up its efforts in this process and to accelerate the review process by submitting a new legislative proposal by the end of 2013.
in writing. - as the recognition of the economic freedoms of community citizens is a matter for the common space, the need to protect consumers from the abuses to which they are often subject quickly became apparent. in fact, their unjustified lack of protection would immediately lead to a breakdown in confidence in the virtualities of the common space. that is why this is one of the flags of community action. however, although a substantive framework is provided to regulate the position of consumers, it lacks mechanisms for the application of penalties. in this context, cooperation between the various national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection provisions is necessary, otherwise it will no longer be possible to hold those who act unlawfully accountable simply by crossing borders.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial off-the-shelf' in the context of the 'commercial off-the-shelf' directive. in addition, the report also makes important changes to the overall system regarding access to information in all derivative contracts, equipping both esma and the national competent authorities with the right tools to supervise and monitor the markets directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i agree that over-the-counter (otc) derivatives are not transparent, as they are privately negotiated contracts, for which information is normally available only to the contracting parties. they create a complex network of interdependencies which can make it difficult to identify the nature and level of risks involved. the financial crisis has shown that these characteristics increase uncertainty during periods of market stress and therefore pose risks to financial stability. i would therefore like to welcome the fact that this regulation establishes conditions for limiting such risks and for increasing the transparency of derivative contracts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents a set of proposals that fill the current gaps in the regulatory framework for over-the-counter derivatives. the absence of legislation in this area has contributed to the financial crisis and its harmful consequences. the amendments adopted by parliament will help to improve the transparency and risk management of this market.
in writing. − this legislative proposal aims to fill the gap in the absence of community-wide regulation in the otc derivatives sector and aims to increase its transparency and reduce its risks. a set of requirements for derivative contracts, for the conditions for authorisation of central counterparties (ccps) and the criteria to be examined to ensure appropriate features for centralised clearing and for the reporting of otc derivative information to trade repositories where the aggregated information can be used, in particular, for systemic risk analysis and for the calculation of clearing, are now established. finally, i would like to call on the member states in the council to take a decision on this matter as soon as possible, so that this regulation can enter into force quickly in the community legal order.
in writing. - we have an obligation to draw all the lessons from the crisis which is not yet over. for that we need smart regulation and effective supervision. products can serve the real economy, i.e. they can be useful. the question is not to condemn them, but to regulate them, because their use has not been transparent, which is what has caused the crisis. the derivatives regulation is fundamental, as it represents the €600 billion that was at the heart of the crisis. this regulation will cover the market in raw materials to prevent speculation on them, preventing price speculation. otc derivatives are not transparent, as they are privately negotiated contracts for which information is normally available only to the contracting parties. they create a complex network of interdependencies which can make it difficult to identify the nature and level of risks involved. the financial crisis has shown that these characteristics increase uncertainty during periods of market stress and therefore pose risks to financial stability. i support this regulation because it sets conditions for limiting these risks and for increasing the transparency of derivative contracts.
in writing. − another revealing report on how the eu is dealing with the multifaceted crisis affecting the world, a crisis which has a recognised factor of disruption and risk in the hypertrophy of the financial sphere. here too, the aim is to regulate some of the financial market without going to the bottom of the problem. the eu financial sector uses derivatives because it is an area that is unregulated, unregulated and that develops without knowing the overall extent of the risks involved, knowing only that they are the basis of large speculative gains and therefore necessarily have the most serious systemic implications. financial market derivatives played a crucial role in triggering the financial crisis, as they were used for excessive speculation. this regulation proposes the supervision of the financial sector in europe with the aim of reducing the risks and severity of future financial crises, but without addressing the central issue: to put an end to this type of operation with this instrument. this central question, which was admitted at the outset of the financial crisis, is now being put aside, and the door to speculation and its effects is still open (even if it is now being tried to keep it closed).
in writing. - this is another report that is part of an attempt to regulate something in the financial market without going to the bottom of the problems. in fact, the financial sector in the european union uses the derivatives business because it is an area that is unregulated, that is unregulated and that develops without knowing the overall extent of the risks involved, knowing only that they are the basis of the large speculative gains and therefore necessarily have systemic implications of the greatest gravity. the regulation thus proposes the supervision of the financial sector in europe with the aim of reducing the risks and severity of future financial crises, but without addressing the central issue of putting an end to this type of operation, as we have proposed. we have tabled the following proposal in plenary: - since financial market derivatives played a crucial role in triggering the financial crisis, as they were used for excessive speculation, and since other means can be used to hedge commercial risk, derivatives will be abolished. unfortunately, this proposal, which we support, was rejected. but the final vote on the report was postponed so that parliament could negotiate with the council on the proposals it had approved. then it will return to the plenary for a final vote.
in writing. − the financial products that financial institutions have created over the years have not been properly regulated, which has contributed to the severe financial crisis they have triggered in the past. the absence of a regulatory framework for otc derivatives contributed to the financial crisis and its ensuing consequences. in response to concerns about financial stability, the commission put forward a proposal to regulate this market in september last year. the amendments adopted by parliament today are aimed above all at improving the transparency and risk management of the otc derivatives market, so that the same mistakes with the serious consequences that we all know will not be repeated in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i agree that reliable data will be needed to identify the relevant otc derivative categories that should be subject to the clearing obligation, the thresholds and the systemically important non-financial counterparties. therefore, for regulatory purposes, i agree that it is important to define a uniform reporting requirement for otc derivatives at union level. furthermore, i agree with the need to provide for a retrospective reporting obligation, as far as possible, for both financial and non-financial counterparties above the threshold, in order to provide comparable data to esma. if such retrospective disclosure is not feasible for any category of otc derivatives, i agree that an appropriate justification should be provided to the relevant trade repository. i also believe that effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions should be provided for in respect of compensation and reporting obligations. member states should apply those penalties in a manner that does not undermine the effectiveness of the rules. i agree that member states should ensure that the penalties imposed are publicly disclosed and that reports assessing the effectiveness of existing rules are published at regular intervals.
in writing. − otc derivatives are privately traded contracts for which information is normally available only to the contracting parties. its complex network of interdependencies makes it difficult to identify the nature and level of risks involved. the lack of regulation of these financial instruments has contributed to the financial crisis and its resulting economic and social consequences. the proposal aims to improve the transparency and risk management of otc derivatives by laying down rules on clearing and reporting obligations, albeit in a limited way. the compulsory notification of financial transactions is also an indispensable precondition for their future taxation. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the current architecture of the european supervisory system integrates three authorities: the european banking authority, the european insurance and pensions authority and the european securities and markets authority. this is a model designed to avoid systemic risk by separating banking, insurance and securities supervision (a model also used in portugal: respectively, banco de portugal, instituto de seguros de portugal and cmvm, associated in the national board of financial supervisors). in this overall context of reconfiguration, it is important to regulate otc derivatives, i.e. over-the-counter derivatives. the central concern of community action at this point is to increase the transparency and monitoring of these actions and to avoid the creation of risks of financial instability. we are once again faced with a measure aimed at improving the mechanisms for preventing crisis situations.
in writing. − otc derivatives are not very transparent, as they are privately traded contracts, for which information is normally available only to the contracting parties. they create a complex network of interdependencies which can make it difficult to identify the nature and level of risks involved. i welcome the fact that this regulation establishes conditions for limiting such risks and for increasing the transparency of derivative contracts. effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties should be provided for in respect of the compensation and reporting obligations, which should be applied by member states in a manner that does not undermine the effectiveness of the rules. member states should also ensure that the penalties imposed are publicly disclosed and that reports assessing the effectiveness of the existing rules are published at regular intervals. in addition, it is also essential to protect the right to privacy of natural persons with regard to the processing of their personal data, in accordance with directive 95/46/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 24 october 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.
in writing. - i approve this proposal, since it takes account of the potential risks of economic conglomerates, with a view to cooperation between the different competent authorities in order to achieve convergence of supervisory methods and clarification of concepts. the commission also stresses the need to improve transparency, cooperation between the new supervisory authorities through the joint committee and the introduction of stress tests for conglomerates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution by agreeing that financial conglomerates need to be identified across the union, insofar as they are exposed to group risks, on the basis of the common guidelines issued by the european supervisory authority (european banking authority - eba), the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority - eiopa) and the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority - esma), following cooperation within the joint committee of the european supervisory authorities (joint committee). it is also important that the requirements for the waiver of the application of supplementary supervision are applied on a risk-based basis in accordance with those guidelines. this provision is particularly important in the case of larger conglomerates operating internationally.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it strengthens the supervision of mixed financial companies, similar to the supervision of financial companies and investment management companies in the insurance sector. it is true that, so far, there has been no obstacle to member states adopting legislation to exercise such supervision, but the crisis has made it clear that it is essential to make this exercise compulsory and coordinated at european level.
in writing. the commission has proposed a number of measures to strengthen the complementary supervision of financial institutions in a financial conglomerate. they thus aim to identify and resolve some of the technical issues that needed an urgent response. in particular, i would like to stress the need for supervisors to be able to analyse mixed financial companies. it is necessary to ensure that the new european supervisory authorities issue general guidance on the supervision of financial conglomerates, it is essential to improve the transparency of supervisory activity, and it is crucial to adopt common criteria on the definition of mixed financial companies for inclusion in supplementary supervision. finally, i look forward to the wider and more detailed review by the commission of supplementary supervision.
in writing. − no sector, no actor, no product can be left out of effective regulation and intelligent supervision. this directive aims to strengthen financial stability. directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate provides competent authorities in the financial sector with supplementary powers and tools for the supervision of groups composed of many regulated entities active in different sectors of the financial markets. thus, these groups (financial conglomerates) are exposed to risks related to the control of a group (group risks), which comprise contagion risks, where risks spread from one end of the group to another; risk concentration, where the same type of risk materializes in several parts of the group at the same time; the complexity of managing many different legal entities; potential conflicts of interest; and the challenge of allocating nominal capital to all its regulated entities, thus avoiding a multiple use of own funds. i agree that supplementary supervision should be applied to conglomerates in addition to supervision on an individual basis.
in writing. - this report is part of the body of legislation which has been discussed in this parliament with the stated aim of supervising the financial system, increasing transparency and, more specifically, reducing risks in derivatives markets and short selling and strengthening investor protection. as we have said, the measures already adopted and those now proposed do not provide the necessary response to the lack of regulation of the financial system. this does not mean that in some cases the existing situation cannot be improved. this is the case with this report on the supplementary supervision of financial entities in a financial conglomerate. in this case, for example, there is a concern on the part of the responsible body to carry out supervision on a consolidated basis, covering the parent company and all the entities in the banking group with regard to the requirements contained in the legislation for the sector. these are positive aspects, but they are not enough to solve all the problems that exist, and that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. the european parliament adopted amendments aimed at increasing transparency, reducing risks in derivatives markets and short selling and strengthening investor protection. the amendments adopted by meps will now serve as a basis for negotiations with the governments of the 27 member states. although the measures adopted do not provide the necessary response, in some cases they improve the situation, such as the supplementary supervision of financial entities in a financial conglomerate. in this case, for example, there is the concern of supervision by the responsible entity if done on a consolidated basis, covering the parent company and all entities of the banking group with respect to the requirements contained in the legislation of the sector. these are positive aspects, but they are not enough to solve all the problems that exist, and that is why we abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - the past has proved the difficulty of properly supervising financial entities forming part of a financial conglomerate. the complexity of these organisations and the extent of their activities make supervision difficult, which in turn can lead to serious problems when they go bankrupt. the commission's present proposal is intended to provide a rapid solution to a situation which has become more problematic during the financial crisis but which has been known for a long time. supervisors should be able to supervise mixed financial companies in the same way as they supervise financial companies (banking) and insurance holding companies (insurance). although the current directives do not seem to prohibit member states from adapting their legislation to exercise this power over mixed financial companies, european coordination is useful in making this exercise compulsory in order to avoid further problems in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree that there is a genuine need to monitor and control the potential group risks faced by conglomerates due to their holdings in other companies. for cases where the specific supervisory powers laid down in this directive prove to be insufficient, i agree that the supervisory community should develop alternative methods that address and take due account of those risks, preferably through work conducted by the esas through the joint committee. if the existence of shareholdings is the only element identifying a financial conglomerate, i agree that supervisors should be allowed to assess whether the group is exposed to group risks and to exempt the group from supplementary supervision if this is justified. it is necessary to identify financial conglomerates across the union to the extent that they are exposed to group risks. it is also important that the requirements for the waiver of the application of supplementary supervision are applied on a risk-based basis in accordance with those guidelines. this provision is particularly important in the case of larger conglomerates operating internationally.
in writing. − the purpose of supplementary supervision is to control potential risks arising from dual use (i.e. multiple use of own funds) and so-called group risks: risk of contagion, management complexity, risk concentration and conflicts of interest, which may arise when there is a combination of several licences for different financial services. the european supervisory authorities should supervise mixed financial companies in the same way as they supervise the banking and insurance sectors. this proposal creates some transparency in a world of concealment by making public the assessments of these structures which are also subject to stress tests. the proposed level of surveillance is insufficient, but it is nevertheless a step in the right direction. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has identified a number of weaknesses in the financial system that need to be addressed. this has been a central concern of the work of the european parliament and the council: in this case, it is the supplementary supervision of financial institutions. the amendments proposed by this resolution seek to safeguard the transparency of supervisory activity, to delimit the scope of supervised companies to cover so-called mixed financial companies, in order to ensure the sound functioning of the global financial system.
in writing. − directive 2002/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate provides the competent authorities of the financial sector with supplementary powers and tools for the supervision of groups composed of many regulated entities active in different sectors of the financial markets. it is necessary to identify financial conglomerates across the union to the extent that they are exposed to group risks, on the basis of common guidelines issued by the european supervisory authority (european banking authority - eba), the european supervisory authority (european insurance and occupational pensions authority - eiopa) and the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority - esma) following cooperation within the joint committee of the european supervisory authorities (joint committee). it is also important that the requirements for the waiver of the application of supplementary supervision are applied on a risk-based basis in accordance with those guidelines. this provision is particularly important in the case of larger conglomerates operating internationally. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the document in plenary.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, as i agree with the european parliament's proposal to ban short-term credit trading on the basis of member state debt. another important point to be made in the parliament's report concerns the provision that esma may directly apply temporary measures in relation to sovereign debt and related instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i agree that in order to put an end to the current fragmented situation, where some member states have taken divergent measures, and to reduce the possibility that this will continue to happen, it is important to address in a harmonised way the potential risks arising from short selling and default swaps. i agree that the requirements to be imposed should address the identified risks taking into account the differences between member states and the potential economic impact of the requirements and without unduly undermining the benefits of short selling for the quality and efficiency of the markets, by increasing liquidity in the market (since the short seller sells the securities and then buys back those securities to cover the short sale) and by allowing investors to act when they think a security is overvalued, thus improving the relevance of the prices set.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to greater transparency for both regulators and markets, making it easier to detect risks in the sovereign debt market. it is essential to ensure that regulators have the power to restrict or prohibit short selling where circumstances so require.
in writing. − this legislative proposal aims to fill the gap in the lack of regulation at community level on short selling and aims to harmonise the criteria for enforcement within the union, harmonise regulatory powers in emergency situations and ensure greater european coordination in the form of a response. in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, governments reacted to the short selling market in a variety of ways, including due to concerns about reduced sales of shares of financial institutions and mainly as a way to avoid creating systemic risk. the report thus aims to ensure the functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions for its functioning, in particular in the financial markets, and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection.
in writing. − the 2008 crisis has shown the effects, the risks, that can occur, as a result of reprehensible actions that must be avoided. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. europe, faced with the current financial situation in some member states and the volatility of markets, must act quickly and concretely. citizens cannot afford a second crisis, and in particular citizens in the weaker economies. in order to put an end to the current fragmented situation, where some member states have taken divergent measures, and to reduce the likelihood of this continuing, it is important to address in a harmonised manner the potential risks arising from short selling and default swaps. i further consider that measures related to sovereign debt and sovereign default swaps should include more transparency and restrictions on short selling without collateral and should impose requirements that are proportionate and that simultaneously avoid an adverse impact on the liquidity of sovereign bond markets and sovereign bond repurchase markets.
in writing. - the purpose of this regulation is to lay down emergency measures to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or all securities. the commission and the european parliament want to create a single set of rules for all member states that addresses in a harmonised way the potential risks arising from short selling and default swaps. but this initiative does not change the essential. the basic question remains unchanged. in particular, this instrument of short selling is not being phased out as was supposed to be, which was essential to put an end to this type of financial operations based on a highly speculative basis. it is known that at the height of the financial crisis in september 2008, short selling of some or all securities was banned in some countries. in several member states, at least, they have been curtailed by emergency measures. it was feared that short selling could exacerbate the downward spiral of share prices, in particular of financial institutions' share prices, which could create systemic risks. now all this seems to have been forgotten.
in writing. although this regulation seeks to establish emergency measures to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or all securities, the essential and substantive issue is not changed. it is known that at the height of the financial crisis in september 2008, short selling of some or all securities was banned in some countries and at least restricted through emergency measures in several member states. it was feared that short selling could exacerbate the downward spiral of share prices, in particular of financial institutions' share prices, which could create systemic risks. the commission and the european parliament are now seeking to create a single set of rules for all member states which will deal in a harmonised way with the potential risks arising from short selling and default swaps. but they do not aim to put an end to them, which was essential to put an end to this type of financial operations based on a very speculative basis, which we regret. however, at this stage it is not yet clear exactly what will be accepted by the council in a codecision procedure, as the final vote has been postponed until the next plenary session in september.
in writing. − the financial products that financial institutions have created over the years have not been properly regulated, which has contributed to the severe financial crisis they have triggered in the past. the new rules on short selling and credit default swaps (cds) are also designed to create greater transparency for both regulators and markets and to make it easier for regulators to detect risks in the sovereign debt market. regulators will also have powers to restrict or prohibit short selling in certain circumstances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation because i agree that in order to put an end to the current fragmented situation, where some member states have taken divergent measures, and to reduce the possibility that this will continue to happen, it is important to address in a harmonised way the potential risks arising from short selling and default swaps. i agree that the requirements to be imposed should address the identified risks taking into account the differences between member states and the potential economic impact of the requirements and without unduly undermining the benefits of short selling for the quality and efficiency of the markets, by increasing liquidity in the market (since the short seller sells the securities and then buys back those securities to cover the short sale) and by allowing investors to act when they think a security is overvalued, thus improving the relevance of the prices set. i agree that the legislative framework for short selling and certain aspects of default swaps needs to be harmonised to prevent the creation of barriers to the internal market, as member states are likely to continue to take divergent measures.
in writing. - short selling and cdss are speculative practices that do not bring any benefit to the economy as they encourage betting on countries' default. the higher the stakes, the greater the pressure on the country and, therefore, its risk. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to restrict and, in some extreme cases, prohibit such practices, in particular as regards sovereign debt securities, in order to control speculation on the markets in such securities. although i believe that more restrictive regulation of these speculative activities is necessary, the amended proposal for a regulation is a first step in that direction, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − during the financial crisis, it was necessary in several member states to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or even all securities. to avoid the systemic risks that have now become apparent, parliament and the council intend to move forward with a regulation on short selling and some aspects of default risk swaps. a solution in the form of a regulation seems to be the most appropriate, since it provides for regulation with greater guarantees of certainty and security and also allows for more concerted action by all the member states. this will also ensure that its application is under the aegis of the european supervisory authority. this is another solution designed to provide europe with mechanisms which are capable of meeting its future objectives.
in writing. − in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions under which financial markets operate, as well as to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection, it is necessary to define a common framework with regard to the requirements and powers relating to short selling and default swaps, and to ensure greater coordination and consistency between member states when action is required in an exceptional situation. i think it is necessary to harmonize the legislative framework for short selling and certain aspects of default swaps in order to prevent the creation of obstacles to the internal market. it is appropriate that the provisions take the form of legislation in the form of a regulation, as some of the provisions impose direct obligations on private persons to report and disclose their net short positions in certain instruments and in short sales without collateral to hold the assets. the form of a regulation is also necessary to empower the european supervisory authority (european securities and markets authority) (esma) to coordinate the actions of the competent authorities or to take its own actions.
in writing. - i support the proposal put forward by the european parliament, as it ensures greater protection for private investors against fraudulent investment firms. the proposal also encourages transparency by imposing new requirements on the reporting by member states and a higher requirement on investment firms to provide information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree that member states should encourage an institutionalised dialogue between consumer protection bodies, authorities, supervisory authorities and investor compensation schemes to prevent further cases of compensation. i agree that member states should establish a dialogue framework to detect problems at an early stage and report problems such as dysfunctional market practices and conspicuous providers, products or corporate structures to supervisors and investor compensation schemes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out measures which will contribute to the harmonisation of the single european market in financial services, while at the same time increasing the protection of consumers and investors, especially those with transnational investments, by ensuring the same level of protection in all member states.
in writing. - in this proposal to amend the existing regulation, parliament aims to restore consumer and depositor confidence and protection and to promote financial stability through greater harmonisation of the rules of the european single market. i believe that today, more than ever, there is an urgent need to improve the european single market for financial services. it is vital to restore and strengthen investor protection through common community rules, in particular on the financing of schemes at national level, and to ensure that these schemes function as a mutual insurance mechanism. i would also like to highlight and welcome the proposal for a mechanism for borrowing between national systems, which has its genesis in the principle of solidarity between member states.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to protect private investors so that they can invest their savings with confidence. compensation is a last resort and should be equal for all. the protection of investors is linked to the protection of consumers. preventive measures are always preferable. in fact, member states should establish a dialogue framework to detect problems at an early stage and report problems, such as dysfunctional market practices and conspicuous providers, products or corporate structures, to supervisors and investor compensation schemes. to that end, it is important that member states encourage an institutionalised dialogue between consumer protection bodies, supervisory authorities and investor-compensation schemes for prevention. i am in favour of the deposit guarantee coverage levels being raised to eur 100 000 instead of eur 50 000 as proposed by the commission. in order to be able to recover the funds paid as compensation, schemes that make payments to investors as compensation for the default of a depositary or a third party should be subrogated to the ownership of the rights of investors or the investment firm in winding-up proceedings in an amount equal to the payments they have made.
in writing. - we are again faced with a report expressing concern about the need to regulate certain aspects of the functioning of the financial sector. the aim is to improve investor protection by increasing the amount of the indemnity guarantee and by introducing controls. but what is proposed is frankly insufficient. the report falls short of what is needed, both in terms of amounts and control measures. the commission proposes a compensation of only eur 50 000 and three member states already have higher amounts. the european parliament proposes €100,000, which is also already being requested by one member state. the report also contains some concerns about fraud, administrative negligence and operational errors by investment firms in the eu, with an emphasis on financial supervision by national authorities. but even here, you don't get very far. while some aspects of regulation are improving, it is also certain that the financial sector will look for other ways of maintaining its earnings. that is why we abstained on the measures introduced.
in writing. - this is another report which is part of the concern to regulate some aspects of the functioning of the financial sector. although it is very insufficient, it seeks to improve the conditions for consumer protection, either by increasing the amount of the indemnity guarantee or in the controls it seeks to introduce, but it does not go very far either in the amounts or in the control actions. the commission proposes a compensation of only eur 50 000 and three member states already have higher amounts. the european parliament proposes €100,000, which is also already being requested by one member state. there are also some concerns about fraud, administrative negligence and operational errors by investment firms in the european union, with emphasis on financial supervision by national authorities. but you can't get very far. so while we think that some aspects of regulation will be improved, we also do not ignore that the financial sector will look for other ways to continue to maintain its earnings. that is why we abstained on the measures introduced.
in writing. - investor compensation systems are out of step with recent market developments. it is therefore urgent to adopt amendments to the proposal on investor compensation schemes. for example, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of investors against fraud and bad advice by investment firms and to set the target level of funding for compensation schemes at five years instead of ten, as proposed by the commission.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers and the protection of consumers' interests. i agree that member states should establish a dialogue framework to detect problems at an early stage and report problems such as dysfunctional market practices and conspicuous providers, products or corporate structures to supervisors and investor compensation schemes. agreeing further that the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the commission in respect of the method for determining and amending the target level of funds to be achieved by schemes, the percentage of available funds set as a limit for loans between national compensation schemes and the procedures to be applied for the handling of investor compensation claims. furthermore, i agree that the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu should be delegated to the commission in respect of amending the percentage of funds available for borrowing, taking into account developments on financial markets.
in writing. − a constant in recent community action has been the defence of financial stability. this requires investors to have confidence in the normal functioning of the market. thus, a system of investment cover (guarantee), even for a given amount, may prove to be of the greatest importance in attracting smaller consumers. however, national systems must be linked to the community system: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between a national authority and a national authority. this is another step towards overcoming the situation europe is currently facing.
in writing. − investors may be unaware of the lack or restrictions of investment firm authorisations, and therefore it is important to ensure their protection in situations where investment firms act without authorisation or in breach of their authorisation, in particular by holding client assets or providing services to a particular type of client without authorisation or in breach of the conditions laid down in the authorisation granted. i therefore agree that the schemes should cover client assets that are actually held by investment firms in the context of an investment transaction. in order to be able to recover the funds paid as compensation, schemes that make payments to investors as compensation for the default of a depositary or a third party should be subrogated to the ownership of the rights of investors or the investment firm in winding-up proceedings in an amount equal to the payments they have made. i also agree that this directive is not intended to reduce the liability of investment firms for the recovery of assets from depositaries or custodians and i voted in favour of the proposals in the document.
in writing. − this proposal provides that member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, are to establish measures to limit or even prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territories, based not only on the environmental impact and the maintenance of biodiversity, but also on socioeconomic aspects. the policy of the european union is to prevent the adverse effects of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on animal and human health. i abstain on the basis of possible contradictions in these guidelines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, as i considered that decisions on the cultivation of gmos should be based on exhaustive impact assessments, taking into account the precautionary principle and the diversity of ecosystems and agricultural practices in europe.
in writing. the commission proposes that the member states be allowed to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos authorised at eu level in all or part of their territory. such prohibitions or limitations will be based on grounds other than those covered by the environmental and health risk assessment, which is part of the eu authorisation process. the proposal does not change the current legal framework of the union for existing authorisations for the cultivation of gmos, but merely provides a legal framework for the cases of states which no longer apply these authorisations, prohibiting the cultivation of gmos on their territory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the protection of the health of citizens, alongside the safeguarding of food quality and safety, is of the utmost priority and must take precedence over other interests, in particular economic, scientific or technological. this report reaffirms the commitment of this european parliament, which has secured a resolution which substantially improves the initial proposal submitted by the commission. the report stresses the need for a more preventive and prudent approach to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos), and also stresses the importance of protecting the environment and defending traditional agriculture and small and medium-sized farmers. it also takes account of the diversity of the european union and the need to allow the member states a capacity to intervene fully in the specificities of their territories and agricultural activities.
in writing. - the report includes a set of proposals which we consider positive, giving member states greater scope to prevent or limit the cultivation of gmos than the commission proposal. we hope that these good intentions will translate into real improvements in an authorization system which has based its decision on scientific studies promoted mainly by the companies that own the patents on gmos, and that the council and the commission will accept the proposals approved by parliament. we would remind you that a recent study by portuguese researchers has once again called into question the independence of studies on the health effects of gm foods, which are financed by the industry - the party concerned with their marketing. we hope that the majority in this parliament will stand firm in the negotiations and that its positive position will not be merely a political maneuver to later serve the economic interests behind gmos. we, for our part, continue to advocate the effective application of the precautionary principle, the withdrawal of gmos already introduced, thus defending health, the environment and farmers. we also reject the control of seeds by the multinational companies holding the patents for gmos and their use to increase the exploitation of small and mediumsized farmers and family farming.
in writing. - this report includes a set of proposals which we consider positive, giving member states greater possibilities to prevent or limit the cultivation of gmos, compared to the commission proposal. we hope that these good intentions will translate into real improvements in an authorization system which has based its decision on scientific studies promoted mainly by the companies that own the patents on gmos, and that the council and the commission will accept the proposals approved by parliament. we would remind you that a recent study by portuguese researchers has once again called into question the independence of studies on the health effects of gm foods, which are financed by the industry - the party concerned with their marketing. we hope that the majority in this parliament will stand firm in the negotiations and that its positive position will not be merely a political maneuver to later serve the economic interests behind gmos. we continue to advocate the effective application of the precautionary principle, the withdrawal of already introduced species of gmos, thus defending health, the environment and farmers. we reject the control of seeds by the multinational companies holding the patents for gmos and their use to increase the exploitation of small and mediumsized farmers and family farming.
in writing. - the measures provided for in this report are based on a comprehensive and well-reasoned list of the consequences which could result from the deliberate release or placing on the market of gmos, and warn of many of their dangers. the report thus states that it is based on the risk of the emergence of pesticide resistance in harmful species, the invasion of gmos or their possible crossing with domesticated or wild plants and the impact of changes in agricultural practice. it is also based on the development of agricultural practices that offer the best potential for reconciling production with the sustainability of ecosystems, the maintenance of biodiversity, the high cost or the impossibility of applying coexistence measures, the protection of diversity in agricultural production and the guarantee of seed purity. it also warns that there is a lack of adequate data. since the report is based on the finding of the real dangers of the use of gmos, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i agree that member states should have the possibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (gmos) on their territory, in accordance with this proposal which has now been adopted. i also agree with the amendments proposed by the ep which add measures to prohibit or limit the cultivation of gmos in all or part of the national territory. we should also be able to rely on local or regional environmental grounds and socioeconomic impacts to make such bans. member states should also be able, when deciding to do so, to take into account reasons related to socio-economic impacts, such as the unfeasibility or high cost of coexistence measures and the risk of contamination of conventional or organic farming by gmos.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the corinne lepage report, albeit with some reservations, on the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the prerogative of decision on cultivation now given to the member states, to be used in a rational and balanced way, can be advantageous for some regions with unquestionable specificities, such as the azores, a biodiversity heritage. however, policy makers must be sensitive enough to be able to combine the various interests at stake, such as those of producers, who are fighting for lower production factors, particularly for animal feed, knowing that feed and also the soya consumed in the eu are imported from countries with gmo production, and the interests of some citizens who have the right to reject the consumption of gmos. i am in favour of carrying out impact studies and above all of the use of scientific, objective and unquestionable reasons. this is a matter where knowledge and responsibility must prevail for any decision-making, which should also take into account a wide-ranging discussion on the subject, involving the participation of citizens, and always in an informed and enlightened manner.
in writing. - european public opinion is, so far, extremely reluctant to use genetically modified organisms. not only is it not safe for the health of citizens, according to more than half of europeans, but it is also considered dangerous for the environment. this stance is partly due to the lack of information available on the issue. this is the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the cultivation of gmos in the territory of the member states. this is an area where the principle of subsidiarity must prevail, as a measure of the delimitation of competences between the member states and the union, as well as the scientific monitoring of the results obtained and their dissemination. only through research and education can the european people consciously accept or reject the use of gmos.
in writing. the use and spread of genetically modified organisms (gmos) has aroused considerable opposition from the european public. however, i would point out that this lack of confidence is due in particular to the poor implementation of directive 2001/18 by the member states. that directive and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 already establish a fairly rigorous european framework which, when properly applied, provides a high level of protection of human life and health, of animal health, of the environment and, finally, of the interests of consumers, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. this amendment, which respects the principle of subsidiarity, gives the states the final say only as regards the limitation or prohibition of the cultivation of gmos, and does not apply to the free movement and import of such products. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply these measures on a case-by-case basis, after informing the commission and the member states, in accordance with environmental, socioeconomic and scientific criteria. this justification should be justified, avoiding market distortions or legal uncertainty. the correct application of this directive requires the reinforcement of environmental assessment and monitoring arrangements by efsa, for a systematic study, in line with the advances in biotechnology research.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as it contains several proposals for amendments to the future hungarian constitution, in order to ensure greater transparency and promote genuine political and social inclusion in the country. it also recommended a restricted approach in organic laws and tax and pension systems to allow democratically elected governments and parliaments to decide independently on the country's budgetary policy in the future, by ensuring equal protection of the rights of citizens, irrespective of their religion, sexual orientation, ethnic origin or social group to which they belong.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the revised constitution of hungary, reiterating the recommendations of the venice commission, in particular as regards the protection of fundamental civil and social rights, in accordance with hungary's international obligations, the acquis communautaire, in particular the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and the letter and spirit of the treaties.
in writing. - as a jurist and academic, i know well that a constitution is more than a political instrument or the compilation of the legal limits of the exercise of state powers. it is the law of laws and the repository of fundamental rights. that is why a constitution must be ideologically neutral, must ensure a high level of protection of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens and must not - nor can it - be programmatic in such a way as to limit the free exercise of legislative and executive power. however, and despite the concerns raised by the international community, i also know that the constituent power resides with the people through their elected representatives and, as such, hungary and its legitimately elected constituent deputies are absolutely sovereign in the drafting and adoption of a new constitution, which is why i do not think i should comment on the specific text that has been adopted, beyond the definition of the general principles of law mentioned above.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 5 july 2011 on the revision of the hungarian constitution. the venice commission for democracy through law of the council of europe has delivered an opinion on the new constitution of hungary. as this is a supranational body with a recognized record of defending democracy through legal systems, i believe it would be useful, and that is why i am voting for it, for the hungarian authorities to take this opinion into account.
in writing. the recent revision of the hungarian constitution has attracted widespread interest from the european political community. however, it must be borne in mind that the constituent moment is a moment of strengthening the autonomy of the peoples, which is why i do not think i should comment on the text of this resolution.
in writing. - i support this report, as we need a more comprehensive and extensive climate policy to mitigate the effects of emissions of polluting gases, especially those of anthropogenic origin, such as hfcs and black carbon. we also need to invest in research to develop appropriate measures.
in writing. − the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns. going beyond the 20% greenhouse gas emission reduction target should aim to reconcile climate action with competitiveness, economic growth and employment. i agree with increasing the reduction effort from 20 to 25 per cent if the additional 5 per cent corresponds to an increase in energy efficiency. it is essential to find solutions that maintain the competitiveness of european industry. in this respect, i am pleased that for the first time there is a broad consensus among the political groups for the inclusion of a sectoral approach. this approach will allow the greenhouse gas emission reduction target for a country to be reconciled with a holistic and comprehensive approach for each of the energy-intensive industrial sectors, thus avoiding the serious risk of carbon leakage.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the assessment of the risk of carbon leakage, because it contains insufficient proposals to respond to the challenges of climate change. i regret that parliament has not been more ambitious, since tackling climate change is good not only for the environment but also for the european economy and job creation.
in writing. − at a time when the debate on co2 emissions has become unavoidable and when maintaining the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives is unsustainable, it is important that more environmentally friendly and equally reliable energy alternatives are found. it is also essential that europe finds, within the framework of the eu 2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote sustainable and greener growth. however, at a time of severe economic and financial crisis, not only are the political conditions not in place for increased public investment - which is necessary to increase the target of reducing emissions - but it is also unreasonable to expect that companies, already weakened by the economic situation, will be confronted with overly ambitious targets that impose additional operational difficulties on them. green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to community objectives.
in writing. − in order to protect the quality of life of european citizens and the sustainability of the future of the economy, the european union must make every effort to go as far as possible in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the eu must step up its commitment to a green economy, even against the resistance of world powers to accompany this priority cause. the threat posed to humanity by climate change is not diminishing, and the impacts of 2°c of warming are worse than previously thought. i support the challenge to the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals to increase europe's climate ambitions and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, provided that this is feasible and does not prevent or undermine the competitiveness of our businesses. i also believe that it is essential to focus on scientific research, technological innovation in decarbonised energy, energy efficiency and the creation of green jobs in order to increase the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. − this report points to a wound: the eu, claiming to be a leader in the fight against climate change, has set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions below the lower end of the range recommended by the united nations panel on climate change. this is a fact that the permanent shifting of blame onto other countries does not hide. if the eu is responsible for just over 10% of global emissions, as the report says, the truth is that its per capita emissions are about twice those of china or five times those of india, to name just two examples that are often cited. but the discussion of reduction targets is useless if it is dissociated from the means to achieve those targets. in this respect, it should be said that the dominant approach to the problem of climate change - which the report takes up - has been truncated in essential respects and, above all, skewed by so-called market solutions and the insistence on emissions trading. several examples disprove the virtuousness of market regulation. the same number of projects demonstrate the effectiveness of regulation and targeted investment, particularly in terms of environmental impact and protection. the same applies to the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. - this report tackles a central issue in this policy area, putting the finger on the pulse: the eu, claiming to be a leader in the fight against climate change, has set targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions below the lower end of the range recommended by the united nations panel on climate change. this is a fact which the permanent shifting of blame onto other countries cannot conceal. if the eu is responsible for just over 10% of global emissions, as the report says, the truth is that its per capita emissions are about twice those of china or five times those of india, to name just two examples that are often cited. but the discussion of reduction targets is useless if it is dissociated from the means to achieve those targets. in this respect, it should be said that the dominant approach to the problem of climate change - which the report takes up - has been truncated in essential respects and, above all, skewed by so-called market solutions and the insistence on emissions trading. several examples disprove the virtuousness of market regulation. the same number of projects demonstrate the effectiveness of regulation and targeted investment, particularly in terms of environmental impact and protection. the same applies to the necessary transition to a low-carbon economy.
in writing. - the environmental balance is a challenge for mankind today. to achieve this, the role that the eu can play in defending it, by leading by example, is not negligible. a number of advances have already been made; however, there is still a long way to go to achieve a sustainable situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
in writing. - i support the fifth report, but stress the need to focus on areas that strengthen the eu's competitiveness in the long term, in line with the european economic recovery plan. resources must have a reproductive effect on the economy. i also agree that in the event of non-compliance with the rules of the jep, incentives should be created, consisting of measures to suspend or partially cancel the appropriations from the eu budget, without affecting the final beneficiaries of the funds.
in writing. the european cohesion funds play a key role in maintaining the balance of the european area. projects supported by these funds at regional level contribute to pan-european objectives in areas such as economic growth, research, environmental protection, sustainable energy supply, social cohesion, and even cross-border development. this report is therefore of great relevance in view of the forward-looking analysis it proposes for the period after 2013. cohesion policies favour the principle of good governance at macro, micro and intergovernmental level, which i fully agree with. i believe that these instruments are crucial to reducing interregional disparities and that in an increasingly interconnected and interdependent europe, these disparities cannot take place. in this post-2013 improvement perspective, i stress the need to identify rigorously the priorities for european investment, as well as rigorous analysis of macro-regional strategies. i consider it imperative that the funds be managed in accordance with rigorous evaluation and constant financial control throughout the life of each project. a more balanced and developed european area requires a dynamic approach from european leaders to investment priorities and to european cohesion policy itself.
in writing. - the cohesion of the european union is increasingly being called into question in a variety of ways, with some even calling for its dissolution in the face of so many disintegrating pressures. i do not share this pessimism and i believe that if europe does not abandon its core values, it may be able to emerge from this crisis strengthened. but the task is extremely difficult and it puts a strain on one of the principles that contributed to its initial success: cohesion. without its promotion, each part of the union will tend to stick only to its own particular interests and lose the notion of solidarity and mutual help that is so necessary in a political and economic space that is desired in increasing integration. cohesion policy has reduced many of the asymmetries between the different regions of europe, but it is fair to acknowledge that disparities are still very large. if we abandon this solidarity dimension and lose the overall concept which must guide our structural policies, europe will lose an essential instrument for its construction and strengthening. i believe that cohesion policy can be based on promoting concrete results and providing the means to achieve them.
in writing. − with a view to consolidating the european construction and making its values and principles a reality, the need for a cohesion policy with adequate financial, technical and legislative resources is an absolute priority in defining the strategy for the future of the european union and in asserting it in the global context. in the face of the challenges currently posed by the economic, financial and social crisis, cohesion policy should be strengthened in order to ensure greater conditions for supporting and developing disadvantaged regions, which will be decisive in ensuring the effective implementation of the eu 2020 strategy and better ensuring the achievement of the objectives set out, in particular in terms of reducing school drop-out, increasing higher education qualifications, increasing the labour force and employment rates, reducing poverty and increasing local investment in environmental projects. it is important that cohesion policy is simple in its implementation and has the necessary flexibility. in addition, it is important that co-financing rates are increased for member states in financial difficulties so that the financial envelopes at their disposal are effectively used.
in writing. - this report starts from wrong premises, which then affects its whole development and some of its central ideas. the reality of the eu today, and particularly the difficulties faced by countries such as greece, ireland and portugal, clearly demonstrates the failure of the cohesion objectives, which have been enshrined in the treaties over the years. cohesion has not failed because of the crisis; the crisis - and the different impact it had in the various member states - is also an expression of the failure of cohesion. some of the points raised in the report are of great concern. on the one hand, a new intermediate category for objective 1 of cohesion - convergence - is called for for regions whose gdp per capita is between 75% and 90% of the eu average. the commission also proposes to strengthen objectives 2 (regional competitiveness and employment) and 3 (european territorial cooperation). as we have always said, the creation of new objectives or the strengthening of existing ones must necessarily be accompanied by an increase in the financial means to achieve them. the other objectives, in this case the convergence of the least developed regions (with a gdp per capita below 75% of the eu average), would be sacrificed.
in writing. - it is a report which starts from wrong premises, which then affects its whole development and some of its central ideas. the reality of the eu today - and particularly the difficulties faced by countries such as greece, ireland and portugal - clearly demonstrates the failure of the cohesion objectives enshrined in the treaties over the years. cohesion has not failed because of the crisis. the crisis and its differential impact in the various member states is also the result of the failure of cohesion policies. some of the points raised in the report are of great concern. on the one hand, a new intermediate category for objective 1 of cohesion - convergence - is called for for regions whose gdp per capita is between 75% and 90% of the eu average. the commission also proposes to strengthen objectives 2 (regional competitiveness and employment) and 3 (european territorial cooperation). as we have always said, the creation of new objectives or the strengthening of existing ones must necessarily be accompanied by an increase in the financial means to achieve them. otherwise, the other objectives will be sacrificed, in particular the convergence of the less developed regions (with a gdp per capita below 75% of the eu average). which is not certain not to happen.
in writing. − with the adoption of this report, we have set out the priorities for future cohesion policy, with a view to the next multiannual financial framework and the legislative package that will govern cohesion policy from 2014 to 2020. i am in favour of revising the maximum level of co-financing and introducing a system which allows the eu to react more quickly and flexibly to exceptional events such as financial crises and natural disasters. i also support the creation of an intermediate financing category for regions whose gdp per capita is between 75 and 90% of the eu average, which in my country benefits the algarve.
in writing. − in 2050, the eu will represent 5% of the world's population, up from 8% today. due to growth mainly in china and the major emerging economies, its economic weight will fall from the current level of 20% to around 12%. this report presents a series of measures to ensure that the european community of states maintains its geopolitical importance. i voted in favour and stressed the need, as the rapporteur pointed out, to place greater emphasis on the regional contribution to priorities at european level (environmental protection, climate change, energy, transport infrastructure, etc.), on stimulating growth and innovation (integration of smes into international networks, etc.), on pilot projects in the social field (integrated development planning, health, demography, etc.) and, among all these major areas, to promote the idea of compensation and balance at the level of the most disadvantaged regions, which, as is well known, include the outermost regions. the creation of intermediate regions was fundamental for our country and for our outermost regions, and i strongly supported it.
in writing. - according to current demographic and economic projections, europe will lose its global dimension in the coming decades. it is therefore imperative that it adapt its overall policy to these immediate challenges. it is known, for example, that the global trading area has the most links with third countries, which is mainly the result of the past of the member states. their linguistic and cultural diversity is still clear. the rapporteur points out that one way forward is to defend the european added value, that is to say, what europe can best offer to the global society. these are therefore ways of solving a problem which europeans cannot now ignore.
in writing. - cohesion policy is a key policy for the future of the european union. cohesion policy is a structural policy which aims to help reduce the disparities between the levels of development of the various european regions and which should pay particular attention to the most disadvantaged regions and those with a special status, such as the outermost regions. the territorial dimension is one of the novelties of the lisbon treaty and henceforth, in particular in cohesion policy for the period 2014 to 2020, a more appropriate response must be found to contribute to the development of the regions. it is in this context that i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to create an intermediate category of regions, including european regions whose gdp is between 75% and 90% of the european average, which would replace the current system of phasing in and phasing out, and which would not compromise the other categories of objectives 1, 2 and 3. i believe that cohesion policy exists for all european regions and i would argue that this should be the main priority of this policy in the next multiannual framework.
in writing. - i support this proposal, as the commission, on the one hand, wants to increase the amount of aid for cooperation and development by 50%, but i agree with the rapporteur's concerns about the need to improve the quality of aid in order to achieve the mdgs.
in writing. − budget support is now one of the most important forms of aid to developing countries, with commitments for budget support from the european commission amounting to €13 billion in 2003-09. while this mechanism makes up for the shortcomings of other types of support such as project/grant support, it also raises some doubts about its effectiveness, namely the existence of a direct link between the poverty reduction objective (and development policy within the meaning of the lisbon treaty) and these financial transfers to the treasuries of the beneficiary countries. in line with the demands always made by the ep, i believe it is imperative, from the outset, that this support be linked to respect for the rights and minimum standards of governance (which is not always the case), strict control by the commission of cases of misappropriation and waste of funds, transparency of public expenditure in the partner country, reduction of poverty in all its dimensions and the use of these resources in a progressive manner and in parallel with an effective political and strategic dialogue. i therefore support the creation of a multilateral system, involving national parliaments and civil society, to monitor budget support.
in writing. − this report analyses the future of eu budget support to developing countries, following the publication by the commission of a green paper on the same subject. the practical implementation of these policies and their budgetary support require european leaders to constantly monitor, evaluate and restructure them, if necessary. the report points to some shortcomings in these areas, stating that the mechanisms for monitoring by the commission in the scrutiny of the measures implemented or to be supported should be strengthened, also involving the national parliaments of the states to which the support is intended. the nature of these policies as a key instrument to support poverty eradication makes a large-scale involvement of civil society and national parliaments absolutely necessary. the political dialogue achieved should be about these issues, but also about the annual budget review. as we can see in the report, the 2006 oecd assessment showed that the impact of these policies in countries such as malawi, mozambique, nicaragua and uganda, among others, had a positive effect in terms of strengthening good governance, implementing national poverty reduction plans and improving accountability.
in writing. − the european union has a wealth of experience in the conduct of development aid processes and procedures. despite the added value of european support for the poorest countries, they must not only be recipients of aid but also partners and be held accountable as such. no matter how much money or other help is given to them, there will have to be a commitment on their part to transparency and good management. for such transparency to be effective and verifiable, it is essential to involve national parliaments and civil society in the debate on the management of aid received and to make this debate a central element of the annual political life of developing countries. the awareness that what should be for all is only for some, undermines social bonds and degrades the already fragile social capital of weaker societies. the union should not slow down its development aid effort but should introduce mechanisms, such as budget support, which enable european taxpayers and potential recipients in developing countries to know how it has been used, for what purpose and what the result has been.
in writing. − regardless of the time and the reason, any budgetary programme of investment or financial support must be preceded by rigor, transparency and a good assessment of its sustainability, along with guarantees of correct and efficient use and application of funds, in the interests of the beneficiaries. this is the direction in which the policy of support for developing countries should be directed. independent evaluations have shown that, on the whole, the programmes have benefited the beneficiary countries and their populations and that it will be advisable to continue them. however, they have reservations about the impact of the aid on poverty reduction and the consolidation of democracy in the beneficiary countries. on the other hand, these countries are largely independent of aid. i therefore support a clear definition of criteria, a strong focus on the endogenous development and regional integration of the beneficiary countries, and the clarification of the compensation for the contributing countries and institutions.
in writing. − the need to ensure the correct and transparent use of eu funds for budget support to developing countries is not in question. but we must not confuse technical questions - which we must place in the context of the necessary checks and audits, which should ideally be carried out by the developing countries themselves, for which they should have technical cooperation and training - with political options and assessments. the choices of developing countries in this last field should be respected, without impositions (explicit or veiled). the report is contradictory in this respect. on the one hand, it points out that budget support should not be used to serve the eu's particular economic and strategic interests - which deserves our full agreement. it is also clear that the eu should be aware of the added value of its enormous political weight and the potential importance of its action, and hence its leverage, so that its political influence is commensurate with the financial aid it provides. it also states that one of the eu's objectives is to encourage a social market economy, and that this principle also applies to development policy. these are among the most negative aspects of the report.
in writing. - the correct and transparent use of funds for budget support to developing countries must be ensured, but with due respect for their sovereignty. we must not confuse technical questions - which should be the subject of the necessary checks and audits, which should preferably be carried out by the developing countries themselves, for which they should have technical cooperation and training - with political options and assessments. the choices of developing countries should be respected, without impositions (explicit or veiled). the report is contradictory in this respect. on the one hand, it points out that budget support should not be used to serve the eu's particular economic and strategic interests - which deserves our full agreement. it is also clear that the eu should be aware of the added value of its enormous political weight and the potential importance of its action, and hence its leverage, so that its political influence is commensurate with the financial aid it provides. it also states that one of the eu's objectives is to encourage a social market economy, and that this principle also applies to development policy. these are among the most negative aspects of the report.
in writing. − the reduction of poverty and, in the long term, its eradication, is the primary objective of the european union's development policy. budget support is therefore a good instrument for providing such aid, but it is very important that it be used in parallel with effective political and strategic dialogue and with the imposition of conditions. only in this way can we ensure that the european union's foreign and security policy is directed towards the promotion of democracy and human rights, peace and security, which are essential prerequisites for sustainable development. more systematic efforts are also needed to give greater prominence to measures relating to climate change adaptation and disaster risk reduction.
in writing. − budget support refers to the transfer of financial resources from an external funding body to the national treasury of a partner country, which has fulfilled the agreed payment conditions. the financial resources thus received shall then form part of the partner country's general resources and shall therefore be used in accordance with its public financial management system. this mechanism has been in existence since the marshall plan and became popular in the 1980s and 1990s when the world bank and various bilateral cooperatives began to provide budget support in the form of balance of payments aid. the nature of the aid mechanism requires the entities involved to seek ways of monitoring the effective application of these funds. in this context, the european parliament has made it politically imperative to grant aid only to countries which meet minimum standards of governance and respect for human rights. the impact of the aid granted is large and includes three portuguese-speaking countries, namely: cape verde, mozambique and guinea-bissau. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european budget is one of the most important instruments for helping developing countries. the use of the fund for the reduction and eradication of poverty and the implementation of the millennium development goals (mdgs) should be guided by principles of transparency in its use. given that financial transfers are made directly to the treasuries of developing countries, respect for human rights and minimum standards of governance must be ensured. the creation of control systems involving parliaments and civil society can ensure greater effectiveness in the fight against transparency and corruption, without compromising the interests of the population. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - budget support (bsa) to developing third countries is one of the cornerstones of the common foreign policy. but it is not enough to simply provide financial aid to improve local institutions. indeed, according to the data available, it is difficult even to assess the impact of the current ao measures, since, for example, a certain feeling of dependence of the local states on the support granted is generated, which suggests that there is no structural progress. for example, there is a fear that the cut in aid will consequently imply a breakdown in the provision of basic services. the european parliament does not, however, dispute the goodness of such measures; the commission is committed to its good direction and demands that the criteria laid down for its provision be followed, based on objective analyses, so as to contribute to the consolidation of local structures which are oriented towards respect for the inviolability of the person. this suggests, at the very least, an active stance on the part of the union, acting as a political agent committed to the global political scene.
in writing. − the eu's role in development aid, the second largest donor in the world, takes many forms. budget support (bsa) is one of the methods and is carried out by transferring financial resources from an external body directly to the public accounts of a third country. the oa thus reinforces the concepts of ownership and enhanced partnership, since it imposes on the governments of third countries more responsibility for the commitments they have made and the strengthening of mutual cooperation to achieve the objectives of the policies and strategies they have put forward. this also allows for greater coordination between donor countries and greater harmonisation of procedures. the effectiveness of the oa in the development of the countries concerned is evident in several reports and assessments of the commission. however, it is necessary to clarify the eligibility criteria, which differ between beneficiary countries, to promote the participatory development of civil society in monitoring the expenditure and impact of this modality, and to strengthen coordination between member states' bilateral aid, between the eu and other international organisations. the transversal nature of the problems requires greater coherence between the various development support policies, adjusted on a case-by-case basis according to the specificities of the countries.
in writing. - i approve this report because it tackles one of the greatest challenges we face in the right way: that of energy sustainability. we need to be able to provide sustainable energy to all eu citizens, while safeguarding our energy security and self-sufficiency.
in writing. − the european energy and climate strategy must combine economic competitiveness with energy security and environmental concerns. to achieve the proposed objectives, it is essential that there is strong investment in energy infrastructure. i welcome the proposal for the creation of a european connection mechanism contained in the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2022 adopted by the european commission. the connecting europe facility aims to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of energy, transport and information and communication technologies (ict) with a budget of eur 40 billion for the period 2014-2020. i would draw particular attention to this mechanism for supporting islands and outermost regions such as the canary islands, madeira, the azores and the french outermost regions, whose specific requirements in terms of energy infrastructure must be taken into account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, which sets out measures to modernise outdated and inadequately interconnected energy infrastructure with a view to reducing carbon emissions, ensuring security of supply and making energy affordable for consumers.
in writing. − the commission's communication on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 addresses one of the major challenges currently facing the european union: to make energy infrastructure european in scope and to achieve european objectives in renewable energy, emission reduction and security of energy supply. the communication calls in particular for the creation of european energy highways and the promotion of regional clusters in order to avoid the energy isolation of parts of the union. the union plays an important role in promoting certain projects by granting them the status of projects of european interest. the selection of similar initiatives should therefore be made more transparent, on the basis of objective criteria and with the involvement of the parties concerned. these projects should be geared to achieving european energy objectives, such as: completion of the internal energy market, promotion of energy efficiency, integration of markets, improvement of competition and quality of services provided, development of cross-border links, and many others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which presents a detailed analysis of the current state of the european energy framework in terms of infrastructure and encourages initiatives to boost and modernise this sector. this is an area of crucial importance for ensuring a future europe that is competitive in the global context and for achieving the targets set out in the eu 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to reducing pollution and combating climate change, as well as improving the quality and security of supply of clean and secure energy.
in writing. the prevailing view in this report is that the development of energy infrastructure is done within the framework of market economy paradigms. in this way it is part of the process of pursuing the third package of the internal energy market and is another step in that direction. its objective is to enable the free exchange of energy on all transmission interconnectors between countries and/or different tariff zones, i.e. the liberalisation of the energy market. we do not share this view and we oppose it head-on. without prejudice to necessary and desirable measures of cooperation in this field, the development of energy infrastructure should be the responsibility of each member state, taking into account its specific characteristics and needs and the interests of its population, its productive sectors and its economy. it should have a public framework, management and ownership as a means of ensuring a genuine public service of energy supply. the report, on the contrary, states that community public funds allocated to support infrastructure development projects will be channelled to projects of european interest, i.e. those which contribute to the completion of the internal energy market, increase integration, competition and market liquidity. a path that has already proved to be profoundly negative for a number of countries and their populations.
in writing. - we cannot accept the development of energy infrastructure on a market basis, which is another step in the continuation of the third package of the internal energy market, as the report says. its objective is to enable the free exchange of energy on all transmission interconnectors between countries and/or different tariff zones, i.e. the liberalisation of the energy market. the development of energy infrastructure should be the responsibility of each member state as public property contributing to a public energy supply service. but the report says that public funds from the community to support infrastructure development projects will be channelled to projects of european interest, i.e. those which contribute to the completion of the internal energy market ... increase integration, competition and market liquidity. the insistence on the policy of liberalization and the private energy market has already proved to be extremely negative, both in the increase in unemployment and the multiplication of technical problems, both in the price of energy for the consumer, both in its consequences for the increase in energy poverty, and in the increase in the escalation of energy dependence in which some member states are putting themselves. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. − we are all aware that the main challenges facing us in energy policy are to tackle climate change, to strengthen energy security and self-sufficiency while reducing global energy consumption and fossil fuel imports and dependence, to diversify supplying countries and energy sources, to achieve a competitive internal energy market and to ensure universal access to a sustainable, financially viable, secure and efficient energy supply. to make this possible, we must make priority investments in energy infrastructure so that in the medium and long term it becomes more efficient and less obsolete.
in writing. − this report on energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond approves, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the founding of the european coal and steel community, a series of measures to create an integrated european energy network. europe is far from having achieved the objective of a genuine internal energy market and is at a point where it must speak with one voice to define common short, medium and longterm energy policy objectives. this voice must be loud and be heard throughout the european building for the benefit of european citizens and businesses. i voted in favour of this report, which presents very ambitious plans. however, i would point out that these projects are inconceivable without the determined and diligent spirit of the energy companies, which must make every effort to implement them. nothing will be achieved unless the european institutions are decisively involved in the matter. the eu's common energy policy, despite its laudable initiatives and continuing efforts, has so far lacked a decidedly european impetus.
in writing. - european energy policy has been a cornerstone of the community project since its inception. then as now, the sustainability and interdependence of energy between the states is an essential contribution to the success of the common space. the aim is to find a policy guideline which should involve the overall strengthening of interconnection between the energy networks of the various states. it is important, for example, not only to support energy production but also to promote its sharing and use; at the organizational level, to move towards harmonizing production, transport and marketing licences and authorizations, which are specific to each member state; and finally, to find generous means of financing that will enable the project to succeed. that is the aim of this report.
in writing. − the european commission has structured the energy infrastructure priorities for 2020 and beyond, and defined the characteristics needed to create an integrated european energy network. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that an integrated european approach to new energy infrastructures is needed to develop common european systems, to reduce the gap between energy supply and demand, to foster greater cooperation with russia, belarus and the baltic states and to contribute to a more rational and sustainable consumption of energy. i would like to stress the importance attached to the smart cities innovation partnership, the jessica and elena programmes and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) initiatives which will help the eu to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050. at the regional level, the report contributes to the elimination of socioeconomic and environmental disparities between the various member states and enables regions to launch investment projects in various fields. i also stress the need for the eu to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, which will have difficulty being integrated into the european energy network, and to include the special situation of the energy systems of the ors in the energy infrastructure priorities for 2020.
in writing. - i support this proposal, and it is essential to stress the importance of establishing a working group from different sectors, mandated to identify and find solutions to the problems encountered at the level of beneficiaries of social services of general interest.
in writing. − as a supporter of a more social europe, a priority which is particularly acute in the current context of global reality, i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies and deepens the definition of social services of general interest, seeking to reconcile the concerns of providers and users and encouraging policy solutions and strategies that are able to meet the expectations of european society. as the eu treaty makes clear, the continuous improvement of living and working conditions and the well-being of citizens are objectives of the european union and the member states. i stress the importance of sustainable development, based on a highly competitive social market economy and geared towards supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, aiming at full employment and social progress, and placing emphasis on environmental quality, combating social exclusion, solidarity between generations, the protection of children's rights and equal access to health care and the promotion of social justice and protection.
in writing. - public services of universal access, regardless of the economic conditions of each individual, are an important social achievement, inseparable from the civilizational advances made in europe throughout the 20th century, the result of the social struggle of workers and peoples. they are an integral part of the course of progress that this struggle has opened in countless countries. when these public services are called into question today, it is really a matter of a regression of civilization. in the eu which started by changing their name to social services of general interest (ssigs) this is the way forward. we agree with most of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur. however, unacceptable points have been introduced in the report, relating to the privatisation and liberalisation of the gis, which we reject. this means that the final resolution has obvious contradictions, even if there are positive aspects and a progressive view in certain respects. but what is missing is the central issue we advocate for the concept of public services - public ownership and public management, with the democratic participation of users in these public services - in areas essential to the well-being of populations, namely health, education, communications, transport, energy, etc.
in writing. - the vote on this report in plenary has devalued the importance of all public services, including social services of general interest, without which there is no social europe and no social inclusion. we therefore insist on changing the policies of liberalisation to promote a genuine policy of social progress, ensuring universal access to quality public services, with special attention to disadvantaged groups and universal access to all people, regardless of their economic conditions. so, although we agree with most of the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, we were not able to vote in favour of him, as points relating to the privatisation and liberalisation of the gss were introduced in the report, which we rejected. this means that the final resolution has some contradictions, even if there is a progressive line. but what is missing is the central issue we advocate for the concept of public services - public ownership and public management, with democratic participation of users in these public services - in areas essential to the well-being of populations, namely health, education, communications, transport, energy, etc.
in writing. − one of the eu's main objectives is to constantly improve the living and working conditions and well-being of its people. this objective can only be achieved through the sustainable development of europe, based on balanced economic growth, a highly competitive social market economy geared to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, aiming at full employment and social progress, protecting and improving the quality of the environment, combating social exclusion, discrimination and inequalities in access to health care and promoting social justice and protection, as well as equality between men and women, solidarity between generations and protection of the rights of the child. in order to achieve these ambitious objectives, social services of general interest are essential. therefore, only the provision of universal, accessible, portable and high-quality sgeis, in line with the commission's 2007 communication on services of general interest, can be considered as an essential pillar of the european social model and the basis for a good quality of life and for the achievement of the eu's economic, social and employment objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the future of social services of general interest. social services of general interest cover compulsory and complementary social security schemes and universal services directly provided to the citizen, with a view to improving the quality of life for all. these services play a preventive and social inclusion and cohesion role and give effect to the fundamental social rights proclaimed in the european charter of fundamental rights and the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. there is a broad european consensus that social services of general interest are essential for the well-being of our peoples and for an efficient economy and, although progress has been made in overcoming the difficulties created by the application of eu standards to the provision and development of social services of general interest, there is still no consensus within the commission and the council, or between these two institutions, on further practical measures to overcome the obstacles identified by stakeholders. this report seeks to identify measures to ensure that social objectives are achieved and are not undermined by the application of the single market rules.
in writing. − in recent years, relative confidence in the provision of social services of general interest (ssig) has eroded. the recent economic crisis has highlighted some of the structural weaknesses of the states, casting a general suspicion on their economic capacity to guarantee a wide range of social benefits to citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. regardless of the solution found, there are data to be taken for granted: the gics are of substantial economic importance; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide information on the implementation of the community's environmental policy, and that the information should be requested not only from state authorities but also from associations, social enterprises and even private enterprises, and that the process of setting priorities in this area should be ensured by involving a number of non-state parent entities in order to find the most appropriate solutions to achieve the proposed objectives.
in writing. − social services of general interest (ssgis) are a fundamental pillar of the european social model, ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion and at the same time making an important economic contribution in terms of employment, economic activity and the well-being of european citizens. the main objective of this report, in addition to promoting legal clarity and imposing flexibility, is to highlight the need to modernise the gis, with a focus on its accessibility, universality, equity, quality and effectiveness, with particular attention to the most disadvantaged groups. it should be noted that the sovereign crisis, by imposing cuts in the various member states, should not jeopardise the development of the gssi, in particular the social services supporting children and the elderly, education, health and essential network services, which function as a preventive driving force for social inclusion and poverty reduction. i support the principle of subsidiarity in this particular case, since it is the national, regional and local authorities who know the reality for the provision of the gss. however, i would stress that the eu must make efforts to modernise and adapt them to the dimension of the european social model, which itself needs to be re-thinked.
in writing. - i welcome this report which proposes to increase the impact of eu development policy in order to facilitate the development of underdeveloped countries.
in writing. − the future of the european union's development policy will require a more coherent approach to development policy, focusing on poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals, respect for human rights and the establishment of synergies between the various actors and projects. although the eu has doubled the amount of official development assistance (oda) and improved the way aid is delivered over the last decade, and especially since the adoption of the european consensus on development, i share the concerns expressed in this report that parliament has been advocating, namely the respect of financial commitments already made, policy coherence for development, regular monitoring and evaluation of projects and the challenges arising from the creation of the european external action service. i would like to stress that although economic growth is a crucial factor in development, it is not the only factor in eradicating poverty and promoting social cohesion. investments in democracy, human development (education, health, freedom of expression, etc.), food security and climate change are key to the success of a genuine sustainable development policy.
in writing. − following the publication of the commission's green paper, i broadly agree with the ideas advanced by this own-initiative report on the future of eu development cooperation policies, both in its dense analysis of existing policies and, above all, in its emphasis on the need to increase their impact in the current socioeconomic context. the document proposes, by analysing seven areas of action, to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation policies. seven key guidelines which, in my view, cover the key areas for the success of these policies. i would like to stress, for example, the crucial importance attached to human development by increasing support for basic social services such as education and health. only in this way will the mdgs be achieved and sustainable development be promoted effectively and consistently. i would also stress the importance of involving the private sector as a means of generating new jobs and promoting the creation of smes. in my view, this report stands out for the objectives it identifies, which i consider to be well presented, in an articulated and complementary way, providing for maximising the positive impact of these policies on the populations for which they are intended.
in writing. − the european union must regularly assess the impact of its development cooperation and how it can improve its results. just as the process of european integration itself is evolving and by its nature unfinished, so too must the ways in which we contribute to the development of third countries be understood in this way. too closed models risk losing touch with reality and not producing the desired effects. without a clear definition of what it wants to do with the instruments at its disposal and what it wants to achieve by means of them, the union will lack the unity of purpose and sense of mission so necessary to help others to help themselves. it is not worth concentrating action only on those countries which are most willing to receive aid and leaving the others with greater difficulties. europe must look for imaginative ways of linking the political development of states to their economic and social development. the establishment of a european endowment for democracy can be an instrument to go down this road.
in writing. - social cohesion and the balanced and sustainable development of the european union require a clear fight against poverty eradication. eu financial assistance should be geared towards helping developing countries become economically independent, supported by efficient and transparent fiscal policies and strengthened by the involvement of democratic political institutions and civil society organisations in decision-making and development processes. in order to ensure the most efficient and successful use of resources in oda, the recommendations of this report should be followed, in particular as regards the need to improve coordination mechanisms and ensure regular monitoring and evaluation of projects, the fulfilment of financial commitments already made and the challenges arising from the establishment of the european external action service. i also stress the importance of ensuring policy coherence for development within and outside the union, with particular emphasis on the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the theme and scope of the report are suited to tackle a number of relevant issues. but as usual, there are many shortcomings, inconsistencies and even contradictions. the coherence of development cooperation policies is discussed, but the inconsistencies in eu policies are not rigorously and thoroughly analysed. the report focuses on positive aspects, which we value: the need for empowerment - of citizens, organisations and society in general; the need for technical cooperation, in addition to budget support instruments; the reference (albeit without the critical consideration that was required) to illegitimate debt, unfair trade and capital flight; the advocacy of a significant increase in annual oda figures in the next multiannual financial framework; and others. other aspects raise doubts, concerns or even outright disagreement: the so-called innovative approaches, such as aid against reimbursement; the aspects inherent in results-oriented and differentiated financing, rewarding good performance; and the market solutions insistently referred to throughout the report. the rapporteur does not conceal an instrumental view of cooperation policy, aimed at promoting the export to developing countries of neoliberal models and policies and of market economy paradigms.
in writing. - this report talks about the coherence of development cooperation policies, but does not analyse in a rigorous and in-depth way the inconsistencies in eu policies. as always, the theme and scope of the report lend themselves to tackling a number of relevant issues. but as usual, there are many shortcomings, inconsistencies and even contradictions. the report focuses on positive aspects, which we value: the need for empowerment of citizens, organisations and society at large; the need for technical cooperation, in addition to budget support instruments; the reference (albeit without the critical consideration that was required) to illegitimate debt, unfair trade and capital flight, and the advocacy of a significant increase in annual oda figures in the next multiannual financial framework. other aspects raise doubts, concerns or even outright disagreement: the so-called innovative approaches, such as aid against reimbursement; the aspects inherent in results-oriented and differentiated financing, rewarding good performance; and the market solutions insistently referred to throughout the report. the rapporteur does not conceal an instrumental view of cooperation policy, aimed at promoting the export to developing countries of neoliberal models and policies and of market economy paradigms.
in writing. - the time has come for a broad debate at european union level on the future of its development policy. it is important that the european union sets out its vision, ambitions, objectives and appropriate instruments before deciding on the place of development aid in the next multiannual financial framework (mff). a modern european development policy requires the understanding and involvement of european citizens, which requires continuous efforts in development education and awareness-raising, based on the values of human rights, democracy, tolerance, social responsibility and gender equality. anyone in europe should be able to understand development concerns at global level and their local and personal relevance, this will significantly contribute to increasing public support for development cooperation. only then will we achieve a more just world and less inequality, especially among the most disadvantaged.
in writing. − it is important to promote a broad debate at eu level on the future of its development policy, which helps to define its vision, ambitions, objectives and appropriate instruments, before deciding on the place of development aid in the next multiannual financial framework (mff). the ep already has a position or is currently preparing reports on some of the issues raised in the commission's green paper on eu development policy for inclusive growth and sustainable development. i agree that the main objective of european union aid is to reduce and eventually eradicate poverty. the european consensus on development also provides important common values such as human rights and democracy. the commission, in order to reinforce the impact of eu development policy, proposes to set three criteria for the choice of its interventions: (1) added value, (2) prior eu coordination and (3) potential catalyst effect in terms of implementing reforms and mobilising other sources of finance. i have voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - for the union to have a development policy, it must clearly and clearly define both the objectives it intends to achieve and the areas of intervention. in this respect, as the rapporteur proposes, it is urgent, in a context of scarcity of resources, to optimise the investments that will be made in what are called high impact development policies. it also focuses on tackling the causes of poverty and ensuring the provision of essential public services, particularly in education and health, and on food security for the population. the need to boost the private sector by supporting entrepreneurship is also emerging, in order to promote wealth creation and empowerment of the population. in this context, it is also necessary to recognize the need for the european parliament to be involved in the discussions and to be given a forum for consultation with the commission and the council.
in writing. - article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the main objective of union policy is the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the european union, in partnership with the various local and regional actors, identifies the problems of the population, defines development strategies and policies, builds social support networks, promotes economic growth in close conjunction with social and environmental standards and enhances industrial development. i think it is important to define a cooperation strategy which contributes to increasing the impact of aid and to achieving greater results in relation to the amounts invested. i therefore support the incorporation of the european development fund (edf) into the eu budget, allowing for greater coordination between the various eu financial instruments, as well as the provision of technical support from the eu, which will provide member states with a rapid and efficient implementation of the defined projects. finally, i would like to stress the importance of removing obstacles to development and encouraging public and private investment in goods, infrastructure and services that enable inclusive growth and a reduction in social inequalities.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. dr. duran barroso, we are talking about the financial perspectives for the period 2014-2020 in the exact week that the rating agencies have called into question the second financial rescue plan for greece, after the resounding failure of the first. there's something strange about this. i doubt whether we are really learning the lessons we should from the situation europe is in, the situation it is going through. just as there is no possibility of any bailout succeeding without mention of european public debt, without eurobonds, i also do not see how there can be a euro without a strong budget and without a demanding budget. and this is the lesson that i don't think anyone ever learns. and so my first observation, mr callanan, is that the european commission's proposal, which is a proposal for a real freeze of the european budget, is not enough. that's what it's really about, nothing else: the 1% of gdp in the european budget is the medium- and long-term freeze of the european budget. and so this raises a fundamental problem: either we do not do what we have to do with the european budget, or we multiply the mechanisms and financial instruments outside the budget to do what we have to do. but then we will have a real problem of democratic control, of democracy, in this union. my second point is about financial transactions. i would like to welcome the fact that the european commission has changed its position. for years, social movements and the political left have argued, against silence and even cynicism, that a european tax on financial transactions is necessary. for years, the european union, and in particular dr barroso, have always said that it had to be global or it had to be global. i certainly welcome the change of heart, but we need to understand each other. i would really like to know why you have changed your mind, because this question is important for one simple reason, and that is that i need to know whether it is a new conviction, whether it is strong and whether it will convince governments who do not want it, because unanimity is necessary in tax matters in the european union. and my third observation is about the expense. in the spending there is a relevant proposal for an increase for scientific research and innovation. but more important than the volume of funding is the direction of funding. i will give you an example which also speaks to the social question of this europe: one in four europeans has or will have cancer. right now, 90 percent of people who die of cancer in europe die of metastases, but the bulk of cancer research funding doesn't go to metastases, it goes to early cancers. more than 90%! it is therefore a question of quality and, mr president, i will conclude, it is a question of quality that is being posed and it is a question of social commitment and this is, in my view, the main limitation of the proposal you have put before us.
i welcome this proposal from the commission. it has innovative elements and combines sufficient ambition with the necessary realism. it is an excellent starting point, and this parliament has already contributed to it. i hope that the method of governance will become the community method once and for all. all policies, all european projects, must therefore be reflected in the community budget. projects such as iter, galileo and funds such as the european development fund should be included in this budget. it is important that transparency, simplicity and flexibility are keywords so that the next multiannual financial framework is efficient and resilient. i also hope that the budget surplus of each year will be as small as possible and that it will be added to the budget of the following year instead of acting as a credit for the member states. the european union 2020 strategy is the main guide for these new financial perspectives. the budget must have sufficient funds to achieve its objectives and the added value of this budget must be maximised. finally, i welcome and consider positive the proposals on new own resources and, in particular, the financial transaction tax. i hope that others will be discussed, and in particular the levy on emission allowances, as an example.
i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on its proposal. this is a budget which will not cost the taxpayer more, but which is ambitious and innovative. this budget is a clear commitment to scientific research and innovation, education, training and the encouragement of smes. another innovative aspect is the creation of a fund for investment in infrastructure, in future infrastructure such as energy, the electricity grid, telecommunications and clean transport. i believe that this budget, which is simpler and more flexible, will have a real impact on the lives of europeans.
this debate about the future has got off to a bad start. the proposal presented is one of continuity. it takes no account of the profound social inequalities and the growing divergences between the various member states. it is a proposal which mirrors the financial perspectives for a european union which increasingly operates on the principle of 'save yourself', which the more powerful and more developed countries are imposing on member states with weaker economies and many serious economic and social problems. in addition to ignoring the crisis in the euro area and its consequences for unemployment and poverty, failing to put forward clear proposals for an effective cohesion policy, failing to identify the key lines and funds to support production and employment with rights, it forgets the need to significantly strengthen support for development and cooperation. we therefore insist on another general budget which guarantees minimum incomes, quality public services and the eradication of poverty, which respects and supports those who work, which promotes effective equality of rights and opportunities and social progress.
in writing. i welcome the improvements introduced by this report in food information, which simplifies and updates labelling rules and merges directives into a single legislative document. i would also like to stress the compulsory indication of the country of origin for a number of important products such as vegetables, fish, beef, honey, fruit and olive oil. however, it is also necessary to make this indication immediately mandatory for milk and milk products. this is information which must be clearly given to consumers. the large distributors, with their own brands, often change the origin of the milk inside their packages, as for example in the case of uht milk, without consumers having any idea of this, thus introducing millions of litres of other sources into consumption, under cover of this lack of transparency. i therefore call on all those who will vote for the immediate mandatory indication of the country of origin on milk and milk products. in conclusion, i would also like to highlight the specific rules for the labelling of imitation food and the derogation from the obligation to provide a nutrition declaration for artisanal products, which are of the utmost importance for many regions, such as the azores, where i come from.
i would like to start by saying that it has been mentioned here on several occasions that in recent years we have seen a very large decrease in the number of cases, and if we have seen it, it is because there has been control, because there has been surveillance and because there have been measures which have not been dominated by laxity but by strict control of consumer safety and food safety. and that is what i understand the report presented to us by mrs dagmar roth-behrendt to mean. it is in the sense of maintaining that control, that rigor and not wanting to put ourselves at risk on what are such essential issues as consumer safety and food safety. that is why i also want to congratulate the rapporteur, and i want to say this publicly, on the solutions she has been able to find on such difficult issues as animal feeding or raising the age for testing cattle. these are difficult questions, they are questions that play into the controversy and the permanent tension that exists between business on the one hand and consumer protection and public health on the other. my preference would be to put an end to this form of cannibalism which is feeding animals with rations and with leftovers that are processed from other animals of their own species, whether they are ruminants or not. that would be my preference, the zero tolerance one, because for consumer health, for public health, the zero tolerance has to be. but i would like to conclude by saying that, in the face of the pressures, the solutions found by the rapporteur are solutions which i think will serve us all in our public and common interests.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, i would like to congratulate poland on its assuming the presidency of the council of the european union and wish it every success. i welcome the way in which agriculture is referred to in the programme for the three presidencies for the next 18 months. it will be in the next six months that the legislative proposals governing the cap during the next financial programming period will be revealed and it will still be under the polish presidency that negotiations will begin for the multiannual financial framework, the proposal of which is already known to the european commission, as is the position of the european parliament on the financing of agriculture, which unfortunately does not entirely coincide with what the commission has just proposed to us. the european parliament wants a cap that serves not only farmers but also citizens' expectations in terms of the environment, quality and food safety, and that is also fairer and fully applicable in all member states. i would therefore like to know to what extent the european parliament can count on the polish presidency as an ally so that the new cap can maintain a level of financing appropriate to these ambitious objectives.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, first of all i would naturally like to congratulate the polish presidency on the ambitious programme it has brought here and, in particular, congratulate it on the neighbourhood policy, not only in the east but also on the southern border, where i think there is a challenge at the moment which is perhaps more demanding than the one we have in the east, which is more long-term and less short-term. but having said that, i would ask the prime minister and the polish presidency to pay particular attention to economic integration policies, economic governance and financial market supervision. i believe that at this point, however ambitious our goals in the field of defence, energy, food security, the environment, agriculture, the multiannual financial framework may be, if we do not resolve the debt crisis problem in a clear and solid way before the global markets in the european context, we will not have a europe strong enough to deal with the challenges that the polish presidency has set itself. and so i drew attention to the fact that it is essential to convince the other heads of state and government that we must give the european union more economic integration, more economic governance. without this, what will happen is that instead of being the drivers of the european interest or at least the representatives of our peoples, whether in the council, parliament or the commission, we will be mere reactors to the movements of the rating agencies.
in writing. the eu is experiencing times of tension and uncertainty, aggravated by the fact that we have fearful european leaders and a rising tide of populism and nationalism. the euro crisis and the return of borders in denmark are proof of this moment. the polish presidency has a crucial role to play in contributing to the return to economic growth, de facto solidarity and the stability of the euro. i am convinced that we either jump at this moment with more europe, moving forward in european integration, or we fall back and sink. the role of the polish presidency is also crucial for the success of the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the question of new own resources is a key issue in this area. parliament has a favourable and majority position on this matter. given the need for unanimity on the part of the council for the adoption of the multiannual financial framework and for the new resources, and given the current situation, the task is not easy. we need the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy to be achieved, and this requires a budget that is fit for purpose and strong and convergent economic governance. i have confidence in the competence of the polish presidency and hope that it will succeed.
the polish presidency is starting at an important moment for the european union and is doing so by presenting an ambitious programme. in its strategic plan, the incoming presidency highlights the new areas of the lisbon treaty, the eu2020 objectives and the recent proposals for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. i welcome the reference to cohesion policy as one of the most important european policies and its link to the eu2020 guidelines for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the programme refers to european integration as a source of growth, and i welcome the proposals to deepen the internal market in line with the european commission's proposals in the single market act, in which small and mediumsized enterprises, training and research are not forgotten. in the context of the negotiations on the legislative package for cohesion policy after 2013, the polish presidency will have to demonstrate its serious commitment to a good outcome by the end of 2012. i hope that the initiative to organise a general affairs council in december 2011 will help to promote debate on the main issues that will be identified in the course of the negotiations on the financial regulations.
mr president, at a time when we are discussing this report on the financial, economic and social crisis, we wish to make our strongest protest against the so-called rescue packages led by the european commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund which are being implemented in greece, ireland and portugal. in fact, it is a serious interference and subjugation of these countries, whose poor are subject to austerity policies and the robbing of workers, pensioners and other popular strata, only to favor the international financial sector and economic groups, which want to take over strategic companies at low cost through their privatization. these packages, based on neoliberal policies, the strengthened stability pact and the euro+ pact, the so-called economic governance and strategy 2020, accompanied by liberalizations and attacks on social and labour rights, are causing recession in these countries, more unemployment, more social inequalities and more poverty, so that a break and change of policies is urgently needed. so we hereby express our solidarity with the peoples and workers of these countries who are fighting against these policies.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have contributed to this work. there is no doubt that this report is and will be a reference in terms of recommendations and sound and coordinated responses to the challenges of the crisis. if there is a conclusion to be drawn, it is that the crisis we are experiencing will only be overcome by deepening european integration. in a time of serious financial, economic and social difficulties and painful austerity measures in some member states, such as my own country, portugal, it is tempting to take refuge in a protectionist and nationalist attitude. but that's a mistake. the european response to the crisis requires a genuine european economic governance that pursues sustainable growth, promotes job creation and develops the social market economy, providing long-term responses with defined objectives with which the member states identify themselves. the crisis exit strategy needs to be financed with a sufficiently ambitious community budget. to avoid a new sovereign debt and euro crisis, closer coordination of fiscal policies is needed, as is the creation of a system for issuing government bonds and eurobonds. i would like to conclude by stressing that in this difficult period it is also necessary to maintain the level of social protection, especially for the most vulnerable citizens.
mr president, commissioner, president-in-office, it is often said that crises help to strengthen europe. historically, that was true, but today i'm not so sure that's still true. the slow, improvised and reactive way in which the union is reacting to the greek crisis is making the situation worse every day and spreading contagion and lack of confidence in the union and its currency in a frightening way. this is despite the fact that the problems in the euro area stem from obvious flaws in the construction of the single currency, which today focus on its weakest links. if the present crisis is to lead to a stronger union, a strategic vision is needed, as was the case in the past, and unfortunately neither the commission nor the council has been able to put that vision into the european programme and project. this parliament's report, however, gives us this view: more europe, not less, is the solution. parliament stressed that the single market and the single currency created intolerable differences between economies, which had to be countered by specific policies. it recognises that the functioning of the euro requires a european budget reinforced by own resources, a european debt issuing agency capable of protecting states from market speculation and providing them with credit at reasonable prices and times, and that diplomas and the transferability of workers between countries require mutual recognition of social rights and pensions. parliament has come together to send clear messages, and we hope that the commission and the council will hear them.
if the commission and the council continue to medicate the metastases such as the deficit and the public debt, ignoring the cancer which is unemployment and the macroeconomic divergence in the euro zone, you will be letting the disease kill the patient if he does not die before the cure, because your recipe for austerity and punitive interest only feeds the speculators and will never by itself allow greece and other member states to grow again and create wealth even to pay off the debts. the strongest and largest countries, the beneficiaries of the euro zone and the internal market, such as germany, could and should have shown solidarity, but they have done nothing but help, starting with pathetically provocative statements by speculators. the béres report points the way to the new deal that will save europe: eurobonds, more economic governance and more own resources for the european union and, above all, good political governance to regulate the financial sector and discipline and control tax havens. what does the council and the commission hope to achieve by forcing european banks to report the amounts that they have helped to divert over the last three years to tax havens in greece, portugal and ireland?
in writing. - i support this proposal, based on article 77 (2) tfeu (border issues), as it should be an added value as a legislative act of the union, in particular by ensuring the security of border guards, who are assisted by the right to check travel documents at the external borders. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposed text would respect the competence of the member states for the purpose of recognising travel documents. in accordance with the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985, decisions sch/com-ex (98) 56 and sch/com-ex (99) 14 relate to the creation of a manual on travel documents which entitle the holder to cross the external borders and on which visas may be affixed. however, these decisions date back to the period of intergovernmental schengen cooperation and need to be adapted to the current institutional and legal framework of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i agree that, in accordance with the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985, decisions sch/com-ex (98) 56 and sch/com-ex (99) 14 relate to the creation of a manual on travel documents which entitle the holder to cross the external borders and on which bets can be made. however, these decisions date back to the period of intergovernmental schengen cooperation and need to be adapted to the current institutional and legal framework of the european union. since the purpose of the decision is to create legal certainty as regards the list of documents, this declaration proposes to clarify the consequences of the failure to notify the position of a member state within the prescribed period. this provision is consistent with the exclusive competence of the member states for the purpose of recognition of travel documents, as they will always have the right to notify their non-recognition of such documents.
in writing. − the travel document framework allows border control authorities to check whether a particular document is recognised for the purpose of crossing external borders and consular staff to check whether all member states applying the common visa policy recognise a particular document for the purpose of affixing the visa sticker. the current framework needs to be adapted to the new institutional and legal framework of the eu. the fact that member states are not obliged to indicate whether or not they recognise each of the documents listed creates legal uncertainty as the holders of those travel documents risk being refused entry or having a visa limited in territorial scope. harmonisation of the recognition of travel documents is not possible as it falls within the exclusive competence of the member states, but it is necessary to ensure that the list is kept up to date. i support the creation of a mechanism to ensure the constant updating of the list of travel documents issued by countries and the introduction of a centralised mechanism for the technical evaluation of these documents. at the same time, it should be ensured that all member states express their position on whether or not to recognise the listed travel documents.
in writing. - while the union does not want to be a strong europe, it is obviously necessary to guard against entry at its external borders and to provide that documents issued by third states are suitable to allow their nationals to enter the european area. the union should therefore list those who have such a capacity, and the member states will have to keep the list of those who have such a capacity up to date so that they can inform others of their acceptance or refusal, so that the border services can know about them and those seeking to enter the schengen area can know what documents they must carry. the decisions taken in this respect in the past need to be adapted to the present european institutional and legal framework. legal certainty, but also respect for border officials and all those who travel to our territory, requires such information.
in writing. − this report represents an effort by the european parliament to harmonise regulatory procedures and standards by the member states of the european union, with a view to adapting to the new institutional and legal framework of the eu. the list of travel documents allows border control authorities to verify whether a particular travel document is recognised for the purpose of crossing the external borders in accordance with the legislation in force and also allows consular staff to verify whether all member states recognise a particular travel document for the purpose of affixing the visa sticker. i believe that it is necessary to ensure the continuous updating of the list of travel documents by requiring member states to notify their position on whether or not to recognise these documents for the sake of simplification and efficiency. i would also stress the concern to ensure the safety of border guards and the fact that this decision does not affect the competence of the member states to recognise travel documents.
in writing. the report deals with a proposal for a decision on the list of travel documents which allow the crossing of external borders and on which visas may be issued and the establishment of a mechanism for drawing up this list. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. it is for the latter to confirm whether a particular document is recognised for cross-border purposes. we are faced with a proposal that is not without contradictions. on the one hand, it may facilitate the verification of a given travel document by the control authorities. but on the other hand, the proposal is centralising, it gives too many powers to the commission in this area, which can be done at the expense of the rights of the member states in respect of matters important to their sovereignty.
in writing. the report deals with a proposal for a decision on the list of travel documents which allow the crossing of external borders and on which visas may be issued and the establishment of a mechanism for drawing up this list. however, under the pretext of ensuring uniform conditions for the collection and updating of the list of travel documents, they want powers to be delegated to the commission. it is for the latter to confirm whether a particular document is recognised for cross-border purposes. so we are faced with a proposal with some contradictions. on the one hand, it may facilitate the verification of a given travel document by the control authorities. but on the other hand it gives too much power to the european commission in this area, which can be done at the expense of the rights of the member states in matters which are important for their sovereignty.
in writing. − the control of external borders is essential for the security of the eu, and we therefore consider that a strict definition of the list of travel documents allowing such control is necessary. this list should be common to all member states, despite their exclusive competence for the recognition of travel documents.
in writing. - i have approved this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the list of travel documents which allow the crossing of external borders and on which visas may be affixed and the establishment of a mechanism to draw up such a list. i welcome the rapporteur's well-structured report from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the recognition of travel documents cannot be harmonised, as it falls within the exclusive competence of the member states. however, it is necessary to ensure that the list is kept up to date. i also support the creation of a mechanism to ensure the constant updating of the list of travel documents issued by countries and the introduction of a centralised mechanism for the technical evaluation of these documents. i believe that it should be ensured that all member states are able to express their position on whether or not to recognise the travel documents listed, since this falls within their exclusive competence.
in writing. - the rules on travel documents authorising their holders to cross external borders, laid down in the convention implementing the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985, need to be harmonised in the light of the new community legal framework. in this respect, the defence of legal certainty and security must take precedence: states must have at their disposal the means of ascertaining whether a document satisfies the requirements for crossing borders and whether a document is recognised in all member states. it is therefore reasonable to require a list of binding documents to take the form of a community legislative act. in a matter of such importance for the security of the common space, the first priority must be the application of the law.
in writing. - i support this proposal as it stresses the importance of broadband in europe as an element of territorial cohesion, which also offers opportunities for remote and geographically isolated regions. digital technologies are essential for territorial cohesion, as they give greater prominence to the outermost regions of the european union. the difficulties faced by regions in the field of technologies and services in terms of availability, quality and tariffs must therefore be overcome. i agree that, in addition to measures to support the provision of broadband networks and other networked technologies, it is particularly important to ensure that investments are also channelled into the development of applications and programmes for the use of information infrastructure, which will contribute to improving the lives of citizens, promoting the provision of online public services and increasing the quality of public administration.
in writing. − access by all european citizens to efficient broadband networks is a key factor in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. broadband is essential for the competitiveness of eu industry, making a strong contribution to economic growth and employment, as well as to the participation of all regions and social groups in the digital life of the eu. despite the developments and improvements in this area, this report, which i have supported, suggests a number of initiatives to achieve the european objectives, including: calls on the commission to submit as a matter of urgency an appropriate proposal for a strategic plan containing a single framework applicable to all aspects of cybersecurity. finally, it calls for specific measures to ensure that smes can fully exploit the potential of broadband in the fields of electronic commerce and public procurement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i agree that the provision of efficient eu-wide broadband networks is of vital importance for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to foster smart, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion-driven economic growth, improve the employment situation, strengthen europe's competitiveness, facilitate scientific research and innovation and thereby enable all regions, cities, municipalities and sectors of society to benefit from the digital environment, providing them with the opportunity to exploit new digital technologies for public services. i believe that access to broadband infrastructure for education and research establishments is essential to ensure the free flow of knowledge, to prepare the new generations and to make the european union competitive. the report calls on the commission and the member states to develop european and national programmes capable of guaranteeing and financing access to broadband infrastructure for all educational and research establishments by 2015; the committee also believes that by 2015 all academic and research institutions in europe should be connected by ultra-high speed networks with data rates of gigabytes per second, creating an intranet for the single european research area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for advocating the extension of free high-speed internet access to schools, hospitals and other public institutions as a means of improving the quality and accessibility of public services and strengthening connectivity in peripheral or more disadvantaged areas.
in writing. − in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, the digital agenda is of particular importance and relevance for the gains it can bring not only in terms of innovation and knowledge, but also for the benefits it brings to consumers and businesses, in particular smes. in view of the current difficulty for states and businesses to meet the targets of the eu 2020 strategy with regard to broadband objectives and the limited availability of financial resources, i consider the recommendation of the internal market committee to be relevant so that structural funds can be made available for the deployment of broadband and enhanced high-speed internet access, with all the benefits this can bring to consumers and businesses, and for enhanced competitiveness.
in writing. − with a view to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and considering the strategic importance of the digital agenda for citizens, businesses and the pursuit of innovation and knowledge, universal access to efficient broadband networks is of paramount importance, in particular for global competitiveness, economic growth and employment, involving the participation of all regions and social groups. i therefore support this report, which also stresses the need to encourage investment and competition in order to avoid distorting the market or even creating undue burdens for the companies that make up the market. the protection of consumers' interests and the promotion of consumer benefits are also among the initiatives proposed. in contrast to this european effort and this recognition of the importance of the digital agenda, i cannot but regret the waste of funds by portugal, which were intended to develop broadband internet infrastructure in rural areas and consolidate operations related to the new challenges.
in writing. − universal broadband access is now an indispensable condition for social development and the improvement of public services. although the report is generally positive and even proposes that member states be urged to put in place public policies to support the introduction of new technologies, it should nevertheless insist on improving and promoting public services while ensuring that all citizens have access to broadband, enabling its benefits to be extended to all sectors of the population, particularly in the less developed regions of the union. the outermost regions, for example, are geographically dispersed and lack access to essential ict infrastructures such as broadband internet, thus representing a double penalty in addition to the constraints of their ultra-periphery. we are concerned about the excessive increase in security measures to control and monitor the network, using the pretext of cyberterrorism, and where the guarantee of protection of personal data is just another illusion, which can jeopardise the rights, freedoms and guarantees of individuals.
in writing. − the increasing evolution of information technologies must be accompanied by major investments in the development of european broadband. the provision of efficient eu-wide broadband networks is therefore of vital importance for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to foster smart, sustainable, inclusive and territorial cohesion-driven economic growth, improve the employment situation, strengthen europe's competitiveness, facilitate scientific research and innovation and thereby enable all regions, cities, municipalities and sectors of society to benefit from the digital environment, providing them with the opportunity to exploit new digital technologies for public services. it is, however, important to continue investing in this area so that broadband can reach everyone.
in writing. − one of the pillars of the europe 2020 strategy is the digital agenda. achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for the european union today is linked to access for all european citizens to efficient broadband networks. the present report, which i voted in favour of, suggests a set of initiatives for the achievement of european objectives, stressing in particular the need for better use of all available complementary technologies, including mobile and satellite, in order to achieve broadband coverage in rural, mountainous and island areas. in view of the design and the benefits for all european citizens, particularly consumers and businesses, and also for the enhancement of competitiveness, i believe that the recommendation of the committee on the internal market is of the utmost importance so that structural funds can be made available for the implementation of broadband and for the enhancement of high-speed internet access.
in writing. - for the community area to become a true knowledge-based economy, it must be equipped with technical structures to support the networked development of the economy. broadband is one of the great opportunities for the various states in the near future: the commission's proposal is to adopt a network covering the whole of the community, in a space without parallel at global level, with undeniable advantages for businesses, citizens and technological development. the most pressing challenge is therefore to establish such a structure universally or almost universally, while at the same time providing the conditions for full use by the various community actors, in compliance with the union's regulatory framework, in particular by means of an equitable distribution of costs and benefits, consumer protection and the guarantee of a free competitive market.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy has as its main strategic objective to make the eu a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy. the digital agenda is one of the seven flagship initiatives of the european strategy, setting ambitious and precise targets for the period in question. i am voting in favour of this report because i welcome the creation of a mutual support system which aims to increase investment in research and innovation as a means of developing better communication technologies and also to make it easier for new users to access fixed and mobile terrestrial networks. at a time when data traffic is increasing exponentially, it is urgent to focus on boosting ict infrastructures, increasing the efficiency and rapid deployment of next generation networks, sharing good technological practices and promoting a strategic plan to safeguard cybersecurity aspects in the eu, together with european countries, enisa, europol, eurojust and the various competent bodies and bodies, as well as private sector entities. i also believe that the specific nature of rural, mountainous, island and outermost areas must be safeguarded, since broadband will make a decisive contribution to reducing regional disparities and strengthening territorial cohesion.
in writing. - i approve this proposal. the increased exchange of personal data, coupled with new technological developments, leading to an increase in the collection, storage and use of such personal data, is of vital importance. the inclusion in the review of directive 95/46/ec on data protection of a comprehensive reform of the eu framework for data protection legislation, establishing stricter rules on data collection, including informing individuals why, by whom and for how long their data will be collected and used, should be advocated. the effects of increased security in data protection can have positive economic consequences, given that citizens do not shop online with the same security as they do offline, due to fears of identity theft and lack of transparency about how their personal information will be processed and used.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the collection, analysis, exchange and misuse of data and the risk of profiling, stimulated by technical developments, have reached unprecedented proportions. therefore, strict data protection standards, such as applicable legislation and the definition of the responsibilities of all stakeholders with regard to the application of eu data protection law, are necessary, taking into account that businesses and trade increasingly use loyalty cards (e.g. club cards, discount cards, advantage cards, etc.) which are, or can be, used to create customer profiles.
in writing. − the fundamental principles of the data protection directive, which, despite being over 15 years old, remain valid, enshrining two fundamental aspects of european integration: the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and the completion of the internal market, with the free movement of personal data. its revision is necessary to respond to the new challenges facing the protection of personal data caused by globalisation and technological developments, which have in particular stimulated the collection, analysis, exchange and misuse of data and the risk of profiling. the implementation and application of these rules has also been subject to different approaches in each member state, as have the different status, resources and powers of the respective national supervisory authorities. it is essential to provide the eu with a comprehensive, coherent, modern and high-level framework capable of effectively protecting citizens' fundamental rights, including the right to privacy, inside and outside the eu, and ensuring greater legal certainty and a level playing field for economic operators, enhancing citizens' trust and promoting the digital single market. i support this initiative and look forward to the commission proposing the necessary legislative initiatives, on the basis of the additional means provided by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - fifteen years after the adoption of the directive on this subject, it is imperative to recognise that the rapid pace of technological development and globalisation has significantly changed the world and created new challenges in data protection. at the same time, there is a proliferation of data collection means and methods that constantly challenge the capacity to control and monitor both the data subjects of the data collected and the authorities responsible for their legality and for the protection of personal identity and privacy. the fact that a large part of the communication of many citizens in the member states is already carried out via the internet is a clear example of the importance and sensitivity of this matter. i believe that the union cannot afford to neglect its responsibilities in this respect and must ensure the utmost transparency of procedures and the widest possible access and control of data by data subjects and constantly ensure that the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens are not jeopardised while ensuring that companies are not unduly burdened with red tape and excessive obligations.
in writing. − globalisation and technological developments have brought new challenges to the european union in terms of the protection of personal data within its territory, and have even been identified as stimulating the collection, analysis, exchange and misuse of data and aggravating the risk of profiling. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data. i also support the call in this report for the eu to have a comprehensive, coherent, modern and high-level framework capable of effectively protecting the fundamental rights of citizens, in particular the right to privacy, in relation to any processing of citizens' personal data.
in writing. the report addresses the issue of the protection of personal data in the eu. the global approach that is being taken, in our view, carries a whole set of risks to the fundamental rights of people. the rapporteur himself recognises the risks of attacks and violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, since there is a danger of misuse of data by member states or other entities, particularly private ones. but in doing so, it nevertheless ends up providing for the use of data whenever necessary, leaving a vague and unclear idea of its real objectives. the lack of adequate protection of personal data, the possibility of misuse of such data and the way in which such services are transferred or even coordinated are reasons for our vote against this report. in the name of security, we cannot accept that the fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens are violated.
in writing. − we consider that this report on the overall approach to the protection of personal data in the european union involves risks to the fundamental rights of individuals. the rapporteur admits that there is a danger of attacks and violations of the freedoms and guarantees of individuals, since there is a danger of misuse of data by the member state itself or by other entities, particularly private ones. but at the same time the report itself provides for the use of data wherever necessary, leaving a vague and unclear idea of its real objectives. we therefore vote against this report because we believe that great attention should be paid to the protection of personal data, to their misuse and to the way in which these services are transferred or even coordinated. in the name of security, we cannot accept that the rights, freedoms and fundamental guarantees of citizens are violated.
in writing. − directive 1995/46/ec on data protection remains in force. however, it has not been applied consistently by all member states. the eu should therefore - after a comprehensive impact assessment - have a comprehensive, coherent, modern and high-level framework that effectively protects citizens' fundamental rights, including the right to privacy, in relation to any processing of citizens' personal data in the eu and in third countries in all circumstances, in order to address the many challenges to data protection, such as those caused by globalisation, technological developments, increased online activity, uses associated with an increasing number of activities and security concerns (such as the fight against terrorism). i believe that a data protection framework such as the one now adopted can increase legal certainty, minimise administrative burdens, ensure a level playing field for economic operators, promote the digital single market and build trust in data controllers and enforcement authorities.
in writing. − in may 2009, the european commission launched an evaluation of the 1995 directive on the protection of personal data. the commission will also present a legislative proposal to amend it by the end of the year, without excluding other instruments to adapt to the new legal framework on data protection. the last 15 years have seen a revolution in the internet and an exponential increase in the use of new technologies. the collection and processing of personal data on a large scale is a consequence of the globalisation of trade. the report highlights some of the points of the future reform: increased right to information, improved data transfer, particularly in the context of judicial and police cooperation, harmonisation of the status and powers of national authorities responsible for data protection and internet security. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the protection of personal data is one of the greatest challenges facing modern societies. if the networked society has allowed, without parallel in any other medium, the sharing of information, at the same time it has put personal data in a position of vulnerability never before perceived. the same applies, for example, to the creation of customer profiles by companies offering loyalty cards. the same can be said for electronic search engines or payment systems. in this sense, the protection of the inviolability of the person and his data is essential for confidence in the proper functioning of these information structures and, consequently, for taking advantage of the virtualities of a connected society. that is the aim of this report, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. - i did not vote in favour of this proposal, not because i did not agree, but because i thought that the ep should have taken a stronger position on the council's proposal. however, improvements have been made in the area of food information by simplifying and updating the rules on labelling, merging the community directives into a single legislative instrument. it is also important to highlight the mandatory indication of the country of origin for a significant set of products such as vegetables, fish, beef, honey, fruit and olive oil, as well as the introduction of specific rules on the labelling of imitation foods and the derogation from the obligation to declare the nutritional value of artisanal products, which are of the utmost importance for many regions, such as the azores.
in writing. the aim of this proposal is to reform community rules on food labelling by improving community legislation, replacing and bringing together seven directives and one regulation in a single document. in order to contribute to greater transparency for the consumer, greater clarity of the community acquis and greater safety for food business operators, the standardization of food labelling at community level is a necessity. the new regulation will end the fragmentation of legislation that has created barriers to trade and competition problems, thereby reducing costs for food producers and distributors and helping consumers to make independent, informed and informed food purchasing decisions. i would like to highlight the new provisions on the obligation to include substances that cause allergies in the list of ingredients. the reference to allergenic substances will also have to be provided for unpackaged food. the indication of the country of origin is now compulsory for fresh meat from pigs, goats, sheep and poultry. consumers should also be informed about the specific source of vegetable oils used in the products, such as palm oil. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i consider that the free movement of safe and healthy foodstuffs is an essential aspect of the internal market and contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens and to their social and economic interests. i also vote in this report for the belief that this regulation serves, on the one hand, the interests of the internal market by simplifying legislation, ensuring legal certainty and reducing the administrative burden and, on the other hand, the interests of citizens by providing for the mandatory use of clear, comprehensible and legible labels for foodstuffs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on food information for consumers because i believe that the agreement reached with the council includes important provisions which are in the interests of european consumers, such as the obligation to provide information on the main nutrients and the origin of food.
in writing. - as in the vote on the first reading, i once again stress the importance of ensuring that consumers are given the information they need to know exactly what food they are consuming, so that they can make an informed and conscious choice. the compromise reached with the council strikes the right balance between the interests of food producers and consumers, while safeguarding public health, and has been supported by all member states. i therefore consider this a victory for consumers and i hope that the new rules on food labelling will allow them to make more informed choices.
in writing. - in the interests of the quality of life and the guarantees of freedom and food security for citizens, i voted in favour of this report and i commend the work presented by my colleague, renate sommer, which is the result of intensive and long-term efforts. as i have said, it is essential to ensure that citizens have free choice in food products, by providing safe and credible mechanisms for providing full information on products in order to enable a properly informed decision to be taken, and in particular by providing data on the energy value and quantity of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, sugars, proteins and salt, as well as a mandatory list of allergenic substances. this regulation contributes to the better functioning of the internal market by simplifying legislation, reducing administrative burden and ensuring legal certainty, giving priority to the freedom of choice and the interests of citizens, with access to clear, understandable and legible information labels on food. common sense and rationality were required to ensure balanced legislation and to take account of certain specific features of this sector. i would stress the recognition of the specific nature of products in the artisanal food sector, of products made directly at the point of sale and in the retail trade.
in writing. − we supported parliament's position at first reading because we considered it to be a step forward in the field of food information for consumers. this is despite the fact that some concessions were made at the last minute which impoverished the content of the report. as we said then, the consumer has a fundamental right to know the composition of food as fully as possible and as far as this is justified. it is also a necessary, though not sufficient, condition for informed and conscious food choices and, as such, a factor in promoting the health and well-being of the population. at the second reading, and following the negotiations with the council, although the proposal retained some positive aspects, parliament eventually withdrew from some of them in order to secure an agreement. we have, among other things, taken note of the points concerning the need for information on food additives with allergenic effects and the obligation to indicate the origin of certain meat qualities. but we felt that it was necessary to go further in this area of origin labelling by extending it to all types of meat, including processed meat, milk and its derivatives and single ingredient products, including fruit and vegetables. we reiterate our criticism of the lack of mandatory information on gmos.
in writing. − we supported parliament's position at first reading because we considered it to be a step forward in the field of food information for consumers. this is despite the fact that some concessions were made at the last minute which impoverished the content of the report. as we said then, the consumer has a fundamental right to know the composition of food as fully as possible and as far as this is justified. it is also a necessary, though not sufficient, condition for informed and conscious food choices and, as such, a factor in promoting the health and well-being of the population. at the second reading, and following the negotiations with the council, although the proposal retained some positive aspects, parliament eventually withdrew from some of them in order to secure an agreement. we have, among other things, taken note of the points concerning the need for information on food additives with allergenic effects and the obligation to indicate the origin of certain meat qualities. but we felt that it was necessary to go further in this area of origin labelling by extending it to all types of meat, including processed meat, milk and its derivatives and single ingredient products, including fruit and vegetables. we reiterate our criticism of the lack of mandatory information on gmos.
in writing. − with the adoption of this regulation, food labelling in the eu is now guaranteed to be clearer and more readable, creating conditions for consumers to make healthier choices when they shop. the new regulation also aims to reduce red tape for producers and food business operators and to strengthen the internal market. the regulation updates eu rules on food labelling by merging the directives on general labelling and nutrition labelling into a single legislative act. the changes will ensure that consumers' interests are better protected, contributing to an ever more strengthened internal market.
in writing. − this proposal for consumer information in food products is one of the most important issues currently under discussion at eu level in the food sector. i believe that ensuring uniform standards at union level can make a decisive contribution to strengthening the competitiveness of agri-food businesses. i also believe that the agreements reached meet both the needs of adequate consumer information and the protection of the fundamental role played by food. i would like to emphasize the commitments made in the regulation of allergenic substances by providing a list of ingredients without the need for repetition elsewhere on the label. i also think it is essential to ensure that consumers are given the information they need so that they know exactly what food they are consuming and can make an informed and conscious choice. the compromise reached with the council strikes the right balance between the interests of food producers and consumers, while safeguarding public health, and has been supported by all member states. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it a victory for consumers.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur's position that after a long negotiation, he has agreed to secure a commitment with the council for a common transport policy in the area of road safety, with the main elements being the provision of essential and confidential data such as the mandatory notification of offenders, delegated acts and correlation tables.
in writing. − halving the number of road deaths was the eu's target in 2001. the available data show that between 2001 and 2009, the number of fatalities fell by 36%, which falls short of the target set by the eu in 2001 with the publication of the green paper on european transport policy. recent studies have shown that a large percentage of non-residents are involved in road accidents, including those related to speeding. on the other hand, penalties imposed for infringements committed in another member state are the ones that are most often not applied. this report, which i supported, sets out new rules to facilitate the enforcement of penalties against motorists who commit speeding offences, drive while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs, fail to use seat belts, use a mobile phone illegally, drive in a restricted lane, fail to wear a helmet or disregard a red light in another eu country. the new directive strengthens the sharing of data between member states and the obligation to inform drivers. the aim is to end impunity for motorists who commit road traffic offences in other eu member states.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that improving road safety is a key objective of the union's transport policy. the union shall develop a policy to promote road safety in order to reduce the number of deaths, injuries and property damage. an important element of that policy is the consistent enforcement of sanctions for road traffic offences committed in the union which seriously impair road safety. i encourage greater convergence of control measures between member states and the commission should, in this context, examine whether it is necessary to propose the harmonisation of technical equipment for road safety control. this directive respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles enshrined, inter alia, in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, as referred to in article 6 of the treaty on european union. when the information letter is transmitted, the person suspected of having committed a road safety related traffic offence should therefore be informed of his or her rights of access, rectification and erasure of his or her personal data and of the maximum legal period for which such data may be retained.
in writing. − given the high rate of road fatalities, it is essential that the eu takes the necessary road safety measures to help reduce these numbers. the monitoring of compliance with road safety rules is undoubtedly an effective instrument. however, at present road traffic offences are often not subject to penalties if they are committed with a vehicle registered in another member state, which also calls into question the principle of equal treatment between residents and non-residents. the infringements covered by the proposal are those which cause the greatest number of accidents and deaths on the roads: speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol, not wearing a seat belt and not respecting a red light. we are facing a second reading of the ambitious proposal presented in 2008, which after two years of deadlock in the council, has come back much weaker and with a new legal basis, which not only allows the united kingdom, ireland and denmark not to participate, but also reduces the proposal to a mere exchange of data between member states. i support this proposal, however, because i believe that it at least allows us to break the deadlock and is a first step towards a common policy on road safety.
in writing. - as a citizen of a country where road accidents are becoming alarmingly frequent, i can only welcome all the measures aimed at allowing a greater cross-border exchange of information on road safety-related traffic offences. it would be incomprehensible that, in a union which aims to be more open and free to move people and goods, offenders could hide in their national courts and not be held accountable for offences committed in other member states. the safety of all those who travel on europe's roads requires that those who have broken the traffic rules be held to account civilly and even criminally where justified, regardless of their residence or nationality. i hope this is another step in the right direction.
in writing. - the importance of road safety on all roads in the european union is unquestionable. all the initiatives we can take to reduce the number of road deaths and accidents must be given the utmost urgency and priority. while i welcome the result we have now been able to achieve with this report, i cannot but regret the long time that has been spent on this process since 2008, again because of a blocking minority in the council. given the objective of reducing by 2020 by at least half the number of road deaths in the eu, which currently stands at 31 000 per year, we must be bold and determined in respecting the rules of the road and of civic behaviour and in enforcing sanctions against motorists who commit serious offences, irrespective of the member state in which they are: speeding, driving while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs, not wearing a seatbelt, using a mobile phone illegally, driving in a restricted lane, not wearing a safety helmet or not following traffic lights. the harmonization of rules and procedures and the pursuit of a common policy on road safety seem to me to be in the best interests of all european citizens.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. road safety and efforts to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities on the roads are extremely important issues, and many of these accidents are caused by a large proportion of the infringements identified in the directive. we must not forget that reducing these numbers and promoting road safety requires work on prevention, based on the concrete and differentiated reality in each country. we believe that measures should be taken to combat impunity where the offender is in a member state other than his own. however, we cannot but express some reservations about monitoring and surveillance procedures and equipment which do not offer adequate guarantees in terms of the protection of personal data.
in writing. the proposal for a directive, which is now undergoing its second reading, aims to facilitate the enforcement of penalties against motorists who, in a member state other than their own, have committed an offence of speeding, drunk driving, failure to use a seatbelt or disregard for a red traffic light. road safety and efforts to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities on the roads are extremely important issues, and many of these accidents are caused by a large proportion of the infringements that the directive identifies. however, reducing these numbers and promoting road safety is most effectively achieved through prevention, which is based on the concrete and differentiated reality in each country. while it is true that measures are needed to combat impunity in cases where the offender is in a member state other than the one in which he resides, excessive harmonisation of security measures at eu level, such as the harmonisation of traffic rules, monitoring procedures through the installation of monitoring and surveillance equipment, which offer little guarantee in terms of the protection of personal data, cannot be a panacea for all ills.
in writing. − the adoption of these new rules will make it easier to enforce penalties against motorists who have committed in another eu country an offence of speeding, driving while intoxicated or under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a seatbelt, unlawful use of a mobile phone, driving in a restricted lane, not wearing a safety helmet or disregarding a red light. the exchange of data between member states through the eucaris system (an intergovernmental network initially intended for cooperation against organised crime) and the obligation to inform drivers are reinforced in this new directive, which should be transposed into national legislation within two years. the directive aims to end impunity for motorists who commit road traffic offences in other eu member states.
in writing. − the 36% reduction in the number of fatalities between 2001 and 2009 in the european union fell short of the target set by the eu in 2001 following the publication of the green paper on european transport policy to reduce the number of fatalities to half the average recorded at that time. this directive aims to institutionalise the exchange of information between member states on vehicle registration plates, also allowing for the adjudication of serious road accidents throughout the union and ensuring equality before the law for citizens, irrespective of the member state in which they live. i believe that the roads in the union will be safer when the directive is implemented, and this is a very important first step towards increasing road safety. under the new system, the authorities of the country where the crime was committed will be able to send a letter to notify the offender of the type of offence and the applicable sanctions, as well as possible solutions and legal consequences of the act. the application of fines shall be determined in accordance with the rules of the member state where the offence was committed. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the white paper on european transport policy, presented in 2001, set the objective of halving the number of deaths from road accidents by 2010. the data, however, point to a 36% reduction, short of the target. however, some studies point to a disproportionate proportion of accidents caused by non-residents, caused mainly by speeding. this is due to the difficulty of applying the penalties associated with failure to comply with road rules. the rapporteur warns that this situation can be detrimental to residents of a member state, putting at risk the confidence of national citizens in the virtualities of the community. the european parliament has therefore set itself the task of seeking to strengthen the exchange of information between the various member states, not only in the exchange of data enabling the offender to be identified, but also in the application of penalties for non-compliance with road traffic rules.
in writing. − road safety on european roads is one of the union's major priorities. the ambitious target of reducing the number of road deaths by more than half by 2010 was not met. as portugal is the second country in the eu with the highest number of road deaths, i voted in favour of this report, stressing that more action is urgently needed to strengthen the penalties for non-resident drivers in the various member states. i regret that the ep's proposal was rejected at first reading and that this document focuses mainly on the exchange of data between member states by amending the legal basis which will simultaneously allow three states to opt out of this directive. the use of the eucaris system as a tool for managing data on the many offences should also be reconsidered, since its primary purpose is cooperation against organised crime and terrorism. the loss of life on europe's roads must be countered by concrete measures to hold offenders accountable. the next step should be to extend the scope of the infringements.
in writing. - i approve the report, particularly as it draws attention to the fact that the current legal instrument establishing the mff needs to be amended following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and that article 312 (5) tfeu requires the three institutions to work together to find a solution throughout the process leading to the adoption of the financial framework, i.e. the approval process for the mff regulation is based on the assumption of prior negotiation. this is a principle which the eu cannot abandon. the treaty of lisbon was not intended to lead to a reduction in the prerogatives of the european parliament, and the european parliament should not accept such a reduction.
in writing. - i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on the proposal it has put forward. this is a budget which will not cost the taxpayer more, but which is ambitious and innovative. this budget is a clear commitment to scientific research and innovation, education, vocational training and the promotion of smes. another innovative aspect is the creation of the fund for investments in future infrastructure such as energy, telecommunications and transport. i believe that this budget, which is simpler and more flexible, will have a real impact on the lives of europeans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-13 because i believe that an ambitious european budget is needed to meet the challenges facing the european union in the context of the new competences introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur's position of not approving the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-13 for the reasons set out in the report under examination.
in writing. − the european union is experiencing times of tension and uncertainty, aggravated by the fact that we have fearful european leaders and a wave of populism and nationalism that is growing as self-centred and momentary interests rise, unable to find solutions for the future and of great social and economic significance. the euro crisis and the return of borders in denmark, along with the worsening of popular discontent and the recent electoral victories of nationalist groups in different countries, are signs of the present moment in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's institutions are able to take action. more europe is needed, not only as a way of overcoming the current crisis, but also in compliance with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which strengthens the powers of the european parliament in a codecision process that the council and the member states are keen to devalue. in this context, i support this report and believe that the european parliament cannot approve the proposal for a draft council regulation establishing a multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-13.
in writing. − our deep disagreement with the financial perspectives 2007-13, which represented a major cut in the eu budget, is well known. the lisbon strategy and foreign policy have been given priority over the structural and cohesion funds. it is now clearly unable to cope with the economic, social and environmental situation facing the eu, with increased inequalities and therefore also increased cohesion needs. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it was stipulated that the council would adopt the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework after the approval of the european parliament and that the institutions would work together to find a solution with a view to adopting the mff. this new framework is the reason for the rapporteur's position of rejecting the draft council regulation which is nothing more than the regulation of the agreement concluded in 2006 on the grounds that parliament's new powers are not safeguarded. for our part, we reiterate that the mff must give the utmost priority to responding to the serious social problems created by the economic and social crisis, with a significant increase in the community budget to support economic and social cohesion.
in writing. − the agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13 was concluded in 2006 between the council, the european parliament and the commission. at that time, we expressed our deep disagreement, as this agreement represented a substantial cut in the eu budget and had set the notorious lisbon strategy and foreign policy as priorities, to the detriment of the structural and cohesion funds. in other words, it was clearly insufficient to cope with the economic, social and environmental situation facing the eu, with its growing inequalities and growing needs for cohesion. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it was stipulated that the council would adopt the regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework after the approval of the european parliament and that the three institutions would work together to find a solution with a view to adopting the mff. although the rapporteur defends the non-approval of the draft council regulation, mainly because of the council's lack of respect for the new powers now conferred on parliament, we voted in favour of not approving this regulation because it is nothing more than the regulation of the agreement concluded in 2006, rather than responding to the serious social problems created by the economic and social crisis.
in writing. − i agree with parliament's position not to approve the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-13, as it is parliament's understanding that the current interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management continues to apply until the entry into force of the new regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework, with the exception of the articles which, following the treaty of lisbon, have become obsolete. on the other hand, the reduction in the degree of flexibility of the multiannual financial framework proposed by the council would restrict the powers and prerogatives of the european parliament in relation to those which it currently enjoys, which for us and in the spirit of the lisbon treaty makes no sense.
in writing. - i voted in favour of not approving the draft council regulation establishing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2007-2013, following the rapporteur's position and on the basis of the reasons set out in the report under examination.
in writing. − under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament, the council and the commission are to act jointly in the process of adopting a multiannual financial framework. since we are still at the beginning of the implementation of a new fundamental regulatory framework at community level, it is necessary to move towards a healthy cooperation between the various bodies. it is therefore regrettable that the council's agreement, as the rapporteur proposes, is less flexible than the existing interinstitutional agreement, despite the amendments to the treaties. in this respect, it is hoped that the proposal for a multiannual financial framework, applicable from 2013, will meet the rightful place that the treaties recognize for the european parliament.
in writing. - i welcome this document insofar as it calls for the attention the commission should give to the financial crisis, the economies of the member states and the stability of the euro area. the commission must promote the general interest of its states and citizens and effectively fulfil its duty to monitor the application of the treaties and eu law. the commission has primary responsibility for shaping the future of the eu and should use its next work programme to promote the union's objectives and values, strengthen its commitment to the eu project, help to fight the crisis, ensure its representation and strengthen its political standing in the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2012 because it is necessary for the commission to use its next work programme to promote the union's objectives and values, to reinforce its commitment to the european project and to present solutions to bring europe out of the crisis, in full respect for the fundamental rights of citizens.
in writing. − the commission work programme for 2012 should, in my view, focus on two key issues: (i) overcoming the debt crisis with the new economic governance rules and (ii) focusing on policies for smart and sustainable growth. only with these two strands, one of regularisation and control of public accounts and the other of policies for sustained growth, can europe emerge from the crisis and meet the targets set by the eu 2020 strategy. there are no states which can grow and be competitive without sustainable public finances. i therefore stress the importance of having all economic governance measures fully operational by 2012, such as the new rules of the stability and growth pact, the european semester for greater economic policy coordination, and the new excessive macroeconomic imbalance procedure.
in writing. − with a view to the return to economic growth, de facto solidarity and the stability of the euro, the success of the eu 2020 strategy is decisive for the future of europe. in this context, the commission has a lot of work to do in 2012 and in the near future to ensure a sound budget and strong and convergent economic governance, and to prepare the implementation of a new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which will be able to meet the major challenges facing the european project. in this context, i reiterate the importance of the creation of new own resources capable of strengthening the eu's capacity for intervention and autonomy. the commission should also present, as soon as possible, proposals for a common strategic framework (csf) comprising the cohesion fund, the erdf, the eafrd and the eff, and a proposal for the european social fund, as a key instrument to combat unemployment and reduce social inequalities and poverty through improved education and vocational training. i would stress in particular the need to give greater attention to the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment and early school leaving.
in writing. - the persistence of this parliament in pursuing neoliberal, federalist and militarist options is regrettable. they learned nothing from the crisis. these are: public-private partnerships, liberalisation of the energy and transport sectors, maintaining the main options that have been followed in the cap and cfp revisions, strengthening europe's strength through frontex and the criminalisation of immigrants, strengthening europe's military capacity through greater concentration of resources and greater cooperation with the us and nato, deepening deregulation and liberalisation of world trade through pressure for the signing of free trade agreements. in the face of a crisis of capitalism which calls into question the very foundations of the eu, this insistence on the same options is confrontational and unacceptable. its old objective is to generate more profits for the big economic and financial groups and to promote the concentration and centralization of capital through increased exploitation of workers and peoples. in the face of serious social problems, he shows indifference. no solution is offered to the rampant increase in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion which these choices continue to generate.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat posed by terrorism. it remains obstinate in its pursuit of neoliberal, federalist and militarist options. these are: public-private partnerships which have contributed significantly to the increase in public debt in countries with weaker economies such as portugal; the liberalisation of the energy and transport sectors; the maintenance of the main options which have been followed in the cap and cfp revisions; the strengthening of europe through frontex and the criminalisation of immigrants; the strengthening of europe's military capacity through greater concentration of resources and greater cooperation with the usa and nato; and the removal of barriers to trade and investment at world level through the pressure to sign free trade agreements. in the face of a crisis of capitalism, it insists on the same options, the central aim of which is to generate more profits for economic and financial groups by increasing the exploitation of workers and peoples. in the face of serious social problems, he shows indifference. but no solution is presented to the galloping increase in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion that these options continue to generate. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − the commission has the primary responsibility for shaping the future of the eu and it is up to it to use its next work programme to promote the union's objectives and values, strengthen commitment to the eu project, get the eu out of the crisis, ensure its representation and maintain a respected position in the world. these are the objectives which the commission's work programme for 2012 should address.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the suggestions put forward by the european parliament for the commission's work programme for 2012. i would like to stress the need to restore job-creating growth by accelerating the programme to 2020, the need to complete the reform of financial market regulation and the focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, in particular by developing the growth potential of the single market.
in writing. - the success of community action will largely result from good cooperation between the various bodies, based on respect and coordination of their respective competences. in its resolution on the commission's work programme for 2012, the european parliament thus stresses the need for the commission to act as the guardian of the treaties and the community project. it therefore recommends that in the near future measures be taken to meet the union's most pressing challenges: the development of its economy, which requires, from the outset, programmes to maximise employment; the regulation of financial markets, without disregarding the social and environmental balance; and the defence of the fundamental values of the community project. at a time when joint action by states at global level is facing extremely difficult challenges, it is also important, with a longer time horizon in mind, to lay the foundations for strengthening the eu's role as a leading political and economic actor. an ambitious project to which the european parliament is committed, with a view to the economic and social well-being of european citizens.
in writing. − i welcome this report, agreeing with the rapporteur's view that, on the one hand, a review of the roadmap started in 2005 is welcome, but that, nevertheless, the need to maintain the tight tse measures and monitoring mechanisms is stressed. animal health and consumer protection must be kept as guiding principles for any future action.
in writing. − tses include serious diseases such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse), which reached epidemic proportions in the eu in the mid-1990s due to the feeding of contaminated processed animal protein to cattle. this disease is transmissible to humans by the oral route, then taking the form of creutzfeld-jakob disease, which leads to deterioration of brain tissue and ultimately death. following the epidemic of the 1990s and the social alarm it caused, numerous measures were taken in the eu to control the spread of bse, which were successful and actually led to a decrease in the prevalence of the disease. the success of the measures taken should not lead us to slow down in the control and prevention of the disease, but rather to recognise the importance of these measures and to maintain them, even if they are adequately revised and adapted to the present situation.
in writing. - having regard to the need and importance of the primacy of food safety, i voted in favour of this report. in the context of the global economy and in view of the impact of contagion and epidemics, in particular as regards transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) a family of diseases occurring in humans and animals and characterised by degeneration of brain tissue resulting in a spongiform appearance and eventually leading to death, as was the case with bovine spongiform encephalopathy, popularly known as mad cow disease it is necessary to maintain a strict and efficient control and surveillance regime for feed and food, which is able to reduce risks and ensure better conditions for the prevention of new diseases or outbreaks. it is in this context that we are seeing a sharp decline in the incidence of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, and action must be taken to eradicate them.
in writing. - we all remember the social alarm caused in the mid-1990s by the epidemic proportions of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, a type of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy, which is also the human variant, creutzfeldt-jakob disease, in the eu. the proportion of the disease transmitted by an agent called prion, an abnormal form of protein has its proximate cause in the feeding of livestock contaminated processed animal protein. the report, based on commission proposals, takes the view that the prevalence of the disease has been substantially reduced (2167 cases in 2001 to 67 in 2009) as a result of the implementation of a set of legislative measures aimed at its eradication, and proposes an adaptation of the legislative provisions currently in force. the care and demands with which it does so seem to us justified and appropriate. we stress the importance of maintaining strict rules in the area of food prohibition. the root causes of this epidemic, as well as other food safety and public health problems, lie in the intensive production models that have been promoted in the eu, to the detriment of extensive production models that have consumer health, environmental safety and animal welfare at their core.
in writing. - the social alarm caused in the mid-1990s by the epidemic proportions of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, a type of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy, which also includes the human variant, creutzfeldt-jakob disease, is still in everyone's mind. the proportion of the disease transmitted by an agent called prion, an abnormal form of protein has its proximate cause in the feeding of livestock contaminated processed animal protein. the report, based on commission proposals, takes the view that the prevalence of the disease has been substantially reduced (2167 cases in 2001 to 67 in 2009) as a result of the implementation of a set of legislative measures aimed at its eradication, and proposes an adaptation of the legislative provisions currently in force. the care and demands with which it does so seem to us justified and appropriate. we stress the importance of maintaining strict rules in the area of food prohibition. the root causes of this epidemic, as well as other food safety and public health problems, lie in the intensive production models that have been promoted in the eu, to the detriment of extensive production models that have consumer health, environmental safety and animal welfare at their core.
in writing. − for effective control of this disease, control of feed and food as well as other related issues such as high levels of dioxins and mechanically separated meat is essential. consumer protection, animal health and the eradication of tses will always be the main objectives and of paramount importance when considering changes to the current rules. it is therefore important that the commission and the member states continue to monitor the development of tses closely in the event of a bse resurgence.
in writing. − based on the commission's proposals, this report proposes an adaptation of the legislative provisions currently in force, starting from the observation of the substantial reduction in the prevalence of the disease (2167 cases in 2001 to 67 in 2009) resulting from the implementation of a set of legislative measures and with a view to the eradication of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses). the care and requirements set out in the proposal are justified and appropriate. the importance of maintaining strict rules in the area of food prohibition should be stressed. some of the causes of this epidemic, as well as other food safety and public health problems, stem from intensive production models, to the detriment of extensive production models that have consumer health, environmental safety and animal welfare at their core. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the balanced measures proposed, without losing sight of regular checks and prevention.
in writing. − transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) are at the root of a number of diseases, including creutzfeldt-jakob disease, which affects humans. in order to combat the first epidemic of bse (the bovine variant of tse), the european parliament and the council adopted a series of control and prevention measures in 2001. at this stage, it is noted that the number of cases of this disease has decreased in recent years, reflecting the relative success of the measures taken. however, as the rapporteur rightly points out, as long as scientific knowledge does not allow us to guarantee that there is no danger of the preventive measures being withdrawn, the precautionary principle must prevail, given the risks to human health of a possible new outbreak.
in writing. − i approve the report, drawing attention to the need to continue to take the utmost account of individual freedoms, health and data protection, which led to the rejection of the commission's 2008 communication. at a time when we live under constant threat, we need a broader approach to security issues, so that they are not restricted to the handling of matters related to body scans.
in writing. - i agree with this report because i consider that security scanner is the generic term used to designate a technology capable of detecting metallic and non-metallic objects carried in clothing, considering that detection efficiency is the ability of the security scanner to detect prohibited objects hidden in the clothing of the person being inspected. i welcome the fact that the european commission has consulted the european data protection supervisor, the article 29 working party and the european agency for fundamental rights and that their replies contain important elements on the conditions necessary for the use of security scanners at airports to respect the protection of fundamental rights.
in writing. − the issue of civil aviation safety has been at the top of the eu's priorities. several initiatives were adopted to create an integrated approach to aviation safety in order to achieve a high level of safety for citizens. body scanners are being seen as an additional tool for protection, with an increasing number of member states - finland, the netherlands, france, italy and the united kingdom - using body scanners to increase the detection capacity of prohibited objects, such as explosives, liquids or plastics, which cannot be detected by current metal detectors. i support the idea that there should be a common level of protection for citizens and that european regulations should be adopted, to be applied to member states opting for the use of this method of screening, containing common technical standards and operating conditions that ensure the minimum of risks inherent in the protection of personal data, the privacy and dignity of passengers and human health. passengers shall be provided with adequate information on all aspects of the use of scanners and be offered a realistic alternative to these controls. workers responsible for the use of scanners should be subject to appropriate training and a code of conduct.
in writing. − aviation safety is an absolute necessity and states and the european union must take all necessary measures to ensure it, especially in a world where threats are increasingly global and where terrorism requires governments to take concrete measures to ensure the adequate protection of citizens and society. given that aviation and airports are particularly vulnerable, the safety of air transport of passengers and cargo requires tight and rigorous controls and effective security measures in preventing and detecting potential threats. this implies the existence of security scanners and other controls considered proportionate and appropriate to ensure security.
in writing. - the reinforcement of the effectiveness of security measures, particularly in the field of aviation and especially in the face of the terrorist risks associated with them, must in no case be neglected, provided that the guarantees of freedom and rights of citizens are safeguarded. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which promotes a comprehensive model of response in the field of aviation safety. the guarantees given, particularly with regard to the detection of dangerous objects and instruments and the protection of the privacy of citizens, in respect of airport surveillance scanners, the application of which is optional for the member states, should be emphasized. i would stress the strengthening of recommendations to reduce the limitations and constraints imposed on air transport users, particularly with regard to the use of liquids, aerosols and gels (lags), through the use of technology that ensures the maintenance or even the extension of the levels of control and surveillance.
in writing. - aviation safety is obviously a matter of the utmost importance, both for workers and for passengers. however, it seems to us necessary to guarantee this security without compromising the rights, freedoms and guarantees of individuals. the document adopted by the majority of this parliament, following the widespread panic about the terrorist escalation, aims to implement the body scanning method at european level. the report stresses its speed and effectiveness, and in a game of waist concerns, it tries to answer the fundamental question: that this method is a real attack on the dignity and privacy of passengers. moreover, although the report does not mention it, its effectiveness is disputed. however, the report does not omit all the risks associated with these devices. in advocating the use of scanners, it does not fail to recognise that cumulative exposure to doses of ionising radiation cannot be acceptable, as it increases the risk of skin cancer. it is equally unacceptable that this solution should still be defended. another worrying issue is the difficulty in guaranteeing passengers effective protection of their data and images generated by the scanners, a situation which could once again constitute a violation of dignity and privacy.
in writing. - we know that aviation safety is an important issue for both workers and passengers. but ensuring this security without trampling on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the people is something we consider essential. the document adopted by the majority of this parliament, in the wake of the widespread panic about the escalation of terrorism, aims to implement the body scanner method at european level, demonstrating its speed and effectiveness, but which, in a game of waist concerns, trivializes the fundamental question. the ep forgets that this method is a real attack on the dignity and privacy of passengers. the report is also contradictory, since it promotes the use of scanners on the one hand and recognizes on the other hand that cumulative exposure to doses of ionizing radiation cannot be acceptable, since it increases the risk of skin cancer. another worrying issue is the difficulty in guaranteeing passengers effective protection of their data and of the images generated by the scanners, a situation which may once again constitute a violation of dignity and privacy.
in writing. − airport safety is essential to ensure the well-being of the millions of people who use the airplane as a means of transport every day. the constant terrorist threats lead to increased care in airport security control, in particular with the introduction of security scanners. however, the adoption of this device still lacks, in my view, in-depth studies, both in terms of public health and protection of passengers' privacy.
in writing. − the existence of security scanners and other controls considered proportionate and appropriate to ensure aviation safety is essential. the european union must take all the necessary measures to ensure this, especially in a world where threats are increasingly global and where terrorism requires governments to take concrete measures to ensure adequate protection of citizens and society. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that aviation and airports are particularly vulnerable. the safety of air transport of passengers and cargo requires strict and rigorous controls and effective security measures to prevent and detect possible threats.
in writing. - air safety has been one of the main concerns of today's democracies since the events of the beginning of the century. in addition to the traditional defence of the freedoms of citizens, the various states have become aware of the need to protect citizens. security has thus become a fundamental value of the states. air transport is one of the areas where this is most apparent. in this respect, community policy is guided by the search for a balance between areas of freedom and the need to safeguard the value of security. it is basically seeking protective measures that are proportionate to the possibility of damage occurring. this is the laudable sign on which this report is based, focusing in particular on the use of security scanners, liquids, aerosols and gels and the transport of goods.
in writing. − civil aviation safety is an element that the eu cannot ignore, as globalisation, with all its positive aspects, also opens doors to transnational crime and terrorist acts, with unforeseeable consequences for the safety of citizens. however, and knowing that security will never be 100% feasible, it is necessary to impose mechanisms that safeguard it and at the same time do not call fundamental rights into question. in this particular case, the introduction of security scanners at european airports will not only improve security but also reduce disruption to passengers. the introduction of these, through harmonised eu-wide standards governing common conditions and standards for detection efficiency, will also take into account the health risks to passengers and staff. i believe it is important to focus on the technological development of scanners for uniform application in all member states, particularly in relation to the restriction on liquids, aerosols and gels since 2006. another point i would like to highlight is the closer surveillance of cargo and mail from third countries through the exchange of good practice, information sharing and training of airport officials.
in writing. - i support this proposal because it is in favour of promoting the strengthening of the presence of women on company boards. if 30% of women on boards is not reached by 2015 and 40% by 2020, the use of targeted initiatives at the level of the european union will be considered. i look forward to the meeting with women business leaders on 1 march and to the document on the current situation in the member states which will be published in march. the european commission must then make concrete proposals on this subject, responding to the needs of women managers, with a view to offering them better career prospects, but also responding to the needs of the european economy. to this end, it is essential to take account of the level of representation of women in enterprises.
in writing. − despite the progress made, there are still a number of discriminations in the eu labour market. the difference between men and women in the top positions of companies is particularly marked. women represent only 12% of the board members of the largest listed companies in the eu and only 3% of them are presidents of these institutions. in portugal, only 5% of the positions in company boards, which are part of the psi 20, are held by women. in all, there are only 12, and only one of them has become the executive chairman of the executive board. the eu cannot ignore 50% of its intelligence and its workforce. european economies could benefit from a better use of women's skills. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to encourage companies to achieve balanced representation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a set of proposals to increase the number of women in leadership positions through the introduction of legislation by the european commission, including the introduction of quotas. implementation of these measures by 2012 is essential if the objectives of increasing the representation of women on company boards by 30% by 2015 and by 40% by 2020 are to be achieved.
in writing. - the principle of equality is, alongside freedom, one of the pillars of democratic states governed by the rule of law. it is because i believe in the importance of the principle of equality that i believe that men and women deserve equal opportunities and should have the same conditions that allow them to rise to management and leadership positions in the business world. this should be achieved by removing the remaining barriers to women's access to employment, such as the negative impact of motherhood on career progression, rather than by imposing quotas through regulation. as i have said on several occasions, quotas, in my view, only reduce the number of women, rather than guaranteeing them equal access to the profession, to public office or to management and business leadership. i still believe that we must fight so that for a woman in the 21st century, the choice does not have to be between motherhood and career, between family and work, between children and a public office or corporate leadership.
in writing. − the objective of increasing the representation of women on company boards by 30% by 2015 and by 40% by 2020 reinforces the efforts of the european parliament and the european union to promote a more equitable, socially just and evolved society. women currently represent only 10% of the board members of the largest listed companies in the eu and only 3% of the chairpersons of these boards. the gender pay gap in the eu as a whole stands at 17.5%, a scenario that is not only seen in physically more demanding production sectors or more basic functions, but also reflected at the level of management or administrative posts. however, i am against the introduction of quotas because i believe that they are reductive, they are disreputable for those who benefit from them and they can distort the effort to value merit and quality.
in writing. - the participation of women in the world of work, including various responsibilities, including management, in the business environment, is now a central and core point of the struggle for equal rights and opportunities. it is in fact in this area that some of the most severe discrimination is found, such as significant wage discrimination, especially in the private sector, particularly in industrial sectors. overall, the gender pay gap is around 18% in the eu as a whole. the report gives particular emphasis to the issue of business leadership, drawing on positive examples in some countries, notably france, the netherlands, spain and finland. it also follows the debates on the same subject in countries such as belgium, germany and italy. one of the proposals put forward in the report is to set a threshold for the representation of women on management boards, which companies should respect. the reality of work is inseparable from the persistent inequalities between men and women, which have been aggravated by the current economic and social crisis.
in writing. − equal rights and opportunities are a central theme, including women's participation in the world of work and in the business responsibilities themselves. it is well known that there is still a high degree of wage discrimination, particularly in private employment, particularly in the industrial sectors. the gender pay gap in the european union is around 18%. the report gives particular attention to the issue of women and business leadership, drawing on positive examples in some countries, notably france, the netherlands and spain, which set a threshold for women's representation on management boards that companies must respect, and also follows the debates on the same subject in countries such as belgium, germany and italy, and welcomes the code of corporate governance in finland, under which company decision-making bodies must include both male and female representatives, with the current representation of women on the decision-making bodies of finnish companies at 25%. we welcome all the steps taken on equality between men and women, but we cannot dissociate the issue of equality from the reality of work, especially in view of the current economic and social crisis, the consequences of which are particularly acute for the lives of workers, exacerbating the existing differences.
in writing. - i think we should all help to ensure that competent and qualified women can access places that are currently difficult for them to access, by removing the obstacles and inequalities that persist between men and women and prevent the latter from progressing in their careers. gender equality in employment should promote, without discrimination, men and women in the labour market and in management positions at all levels, with a view to social justice and the full utilisation of women's skills, thereby strengthening the economy and effective economic performance, and ensuring equal development of women and men.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider this reflection and the opinion of society on this subject to be important. however, i am not a supporter of a quota system. in this respect, i support the european commission, which, by resorting to voluntary and self-regulatory measures alone, has advocated the promotion of the presence of women on boards, with the aim of achieving 30% of women on boards by 2015 and 40% by 2020.
in writing. − despite the enormous social progress towards ensuring equality between men and women, particularly at work, there is still a huge imbalance between those who are responsible for managing companies. this difference in representativeness is felt throughout the community and is one of the problems facing the union today. in this respect, the main focus of the community's policy should be to eliminate any unjustified differences in treatment on grounds of gender. any measure which can help to solve this problem, weighing the various interests involved, must therefore merit the attention and agreement of those who can contribute to overcoming this type of inequality, in particular the european parliament.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. i welcome the recommendations in this report, particularly where it stresses that all member states are systemically important, calling for a comprehensive, socially inclusive and cohesive reform package addressing the shortcomings of the financial system. it also suggests measures to overcome the current lack of competitiveness through appropriate structural reforms, addressing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the underlying root causes of the public debt crisis. because it stresses the need for member states to return to sustainable public finances and growth levels, based on sound public expenditure policies of good quality and fair and effective revenue collection.
in writing. - i was pleased to vote in favour of this report, which represents an important compromise between almost all the parliamentary groups. i agree with almost all the measures outlined in this report to combat the present crisis, which i consider equally fundamental to the future of the european union as a political project. i am only sorry that the european union has once again, perhaps too late, agreed to the problem. and that in the current sovereign debt crisis, the eu will once again be behind schedule.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the urgent measures needed to help the eu emerge from the current crisis and avoid future crises. i would stress the reference in the document to the negative role of credit rating agencies which played a significant role in the escalation of the financial crisis. the issuance of eurobonds, a financial transaction tax, stronger coordination of national fiscal policies and transparent auditing of public debt, among other measures, are key to reducing future reliance on external credit ratings.
in writing. − the current crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the euro area, in particular its vulnerability and the absence of economic, financial and budgetary coordination policies appropriate to economic and monetary union, as well as the existence of supervisory weaknesses and the repeated failure of some states to comply with their obligations under the stability and growth pact, with all the associated systemic risks. all of this has contributed to the deepening of the economic crisis and to the creation of the current sovereign debt crisis, aggravated by the growing pressure from markets and rating agencies. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal for a transparent audit of the public debt. finally, a word on the importance of the final approval of the economic governance package, which has already been discussed and voted on in this house, which is essential to restore order to public accounts and to open a new cycle, which is expected to be one of stability and strict accounting, but also one of growth and competitiveness.
in writing. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the european union. the european parliament's determination has unfortunately not been properly followed by other institutions, notably the council, which has prevented more effective and timely responses to the challenges of this crisis. as this report argues, the focus on the community method and on strengthening economic governance is key to consolidating economic integration and ensuring the resumption of european development, and the eu 2020 strategy therefore plays a decisive role. this requires an enlarged community budget able to respond to new needs and challenges, not least because the costs of prolonging the crisis will be extremely high for everyone, as can be seen from the ec estimate that by 2013 output will fall to around 4.8% of gdp and that over the next decade it will be significantly lower than over the last 20 years. as i have said, the union must have a system of genuine own resources, rather than a system fed by national contributions. only in this way will it be possible to overcome the difficulties and constraints caused by the contributing member states.
in writing. − this report is the result of the work of a temporary committee set up to discuss, draw conclusions and make recommendations on measures to be taken in response to the financial, economic and social crisis. as might be expected, the report suffers from the contradictions arising from the positions taken by the various political groups on this subject. as regards the substance of the matter, the current process of european integration, which is strongly neoliberal in nature and content, has been accentuating its most negative features and consequences. it is the strengthened criteria of the stability pact, it is the so-called pact for the euro plus, with more attacks on rights and more social regression, it is the so-called economic governance, an attack on democracy itself, it is the eu 2020 strategy and the procession of further liberalizations, privatizations and deregulation that it provides. in this framework - which deserves the agreement of the main political groups: conservatives, social democrats, liberals and even the so-called greens - the more progressive and critical brushstrokes that some (in particular from the social democratic side) have tried to give to the report are worth little. the set of policies which are not called into question here, but are instead backed up, do not create the conditions necessary to overcome the crisis. on the contrary, what we will have is its deepening.
in writing. - as we know, the aim of this report was to draw conclusions and make recommendations on measures to be taken in response to the financial, economic and social crisis. but unfortunately the report contains many contradictions, stating on the one hand what is called into question in the following proposals, particularly when it insists on deepening community integration. as reality is showing, capitalist integration is generating enormous inequalities and serious social problems, as it is based on measures based on the neoliberal policies of the strengthened stability pact and pact for the euro + and the so-called economic governance and strategy 2020, accompanied by liberalizations and attacks on social and labour rights. so while there are some positive aspects to the proposals adopted today in this report, its overall vision does not create the necessary conditions for the change that is needed. and what we are going to continue to have is a deepening of the crisis, especially the social crisis, with the intensification of the recession in the countries with the weakest economies, as in the particular case of portugal, greece and ireland. we will have increased unemployment, greater social inequalities and more poverty. only struggle will bring about change. that is why we are voting against this report.
in writing. - the advantage of this report is that it contains a set of european responses to tackle the euro crisis with measures that go in the direction, in particular, of eurobonds and the need to tax financial transactions. the report is also positive as regards the reform of the international monetary system. its limitations stem from the assumed logic of the european semester, which is effectively dominated by the austerity strategy. my abstention will weigh up the positive and negative aspects of this report.
in writing. − the report of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis draws important conclusions on the measures to be taken in the future and identifies some of the main culprits of the financial, economic and social crisis, namely the fact that market financing at acceptable rates has become inaccessible to greece, ireland and portugal and that credit rating agencies have played a significant role in escalating the financial crisis. on the other hand, the issuance of eurobonds, a financial transaction tax, stronger coordination of national fiscal policies and the implementation of a transparent audit of public debt, among other measures, could help the eu emerge from the crisis stronger and with more sustainable growth.
in writing. − in 2009, the european parliament established the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis (cris committee). in june 2010, despite the conclusions reached and the ongoing crisis, the european parliament decided to extend the mandate of cris until the end of july 2011. the purpose of the extension of the mandate of cris was to develop recommendations for a sustainable eu growth model, complementing the cris recommendations already endorsed by the european parliament, and to establish mechanisms and develop coordinated policies to exit the public debt crisis in the member states and to prevent its recurrence by addressing the underlying causes, while encouraging strong and sustainable growth and employment. i believe it is important to reflect on the path we have taken and to continue to seek and implement new solutions so that the crisis we are experiencing is overcome and does not recur in the same terms as it did.
in writing. - the advantage of this report is that it contains a set of european responses to tackle the euro crisis with measures that go in the direction, in particular, of eurobonds and the need to tax financial transactions. the report is also positive as regards the reform of the international monetary system. its limitations stem from the assumed logic of the european semester, which is effectively dominated by the austerity strategy. my abstention will weigh up the positive and negative aspects of this report.
in writing. - the economic and financial stability of the community area is, to a large extent, the basis for the sustainability of the joint project. to this end, a special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis was set up on 7 october 2009. however, as will be obvious to all, the causes of the recent financial crisis have not yet been addressed, nor has a restructuring of the community's response system to situations that may arise been instituted. for these reasons, the extension of the mandate of the committee is to be welcomed, so that it can continue its work of identifying the causes of the recent events and drawing up proposals to ensure the long-term sustainability of the community project, in conjunction with the other national institutions and bodies.
in writing. − an eu economic governance consisting of a set of policies that allow for greater rigor in correcting budgetary imbalances is essential to define european initiatives that aim to overcome the current lack of competitiveness and enable the resumption of the economic growth cycle. i agree with this report because i believe that other measures must be taken to solve the current european crisis, such as a transparent audit of public debts, the study of a future eurobond system, the introduction of new provisions in the eu-ecb-imf financial assistance programmes involving the international labour organisation and the building of a more stable and resilient international monetary system. i also stress that the eu's and the various european countries' budgets must be geared to pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to strengthen the competitiveness, sustainability and leadership of the european economy in the global context. it is therefore crucial to encourage innovation and long-term investment, to boost economic growth, to create jobs and to generate wealth. in conclusion, i cannot fail to acknowledge the high level of effort that several member states are making in fiscal consolidation and in implementing structural reforms that will make possible greater economic integration, financial stability and the credibility of the euro.
i would like to say, madam ashton, that it is obvious that we must continue to support the democratic revolutions taking place in these countries. i don't have much time, so i just want to leave a few notes. firstly, we must not forget that the conditions for negotiation, with a view to a democratic transition and not civil war, must be defined by the peoples in these countries. the situation in syria is serious, this applies to syria but also to yemen and bahrain. if we want to avoid civil war, the last thing these countries need is europe meddling in their internal affairs and, above all, and very particularly, by presenting military or paramilitary solutions. and if i say this, i say it because we must totally repudiate what is happening in libya. nato and the united nations have gone beyond all resolutions, even those that were voted on by the united nations security council. it is this silence on libya, this repudiation that we must make and it is because it is not in this resolution that i cannot subscribe to it.
mr president, as chairman of the maxereque delegation, i would like to leave a sentence on each of my countries, in quotation marks, of course, four countries. starting with syria, and repeating what some colleagues have already said, it is regrettable that the international community seems to have two standards in the eyes of public opinion. we must denounce, if necessary, the countries which, in the security council - and i am referring, of course, to russia and china, as well as brazil, but with veto power - have prevented the international community from taking a more conciliatory position on what should be the values we share. as regards egypt, i believe that there is an urgent need to make the egyptian authorities aware of the need to postpone the elections, as has already been done in tunisia. as regards lebanon, i think that a very clear message must be sent out of this debate to the new lebanese government, so that they are aware that they will be judged on the basis of their actions in relation to the charges made by the special tribunal for lebanon. the example of jordan shows that a peaceful transition is possible and that there is perhaps only a need at this stage to raise awareness and encourage the authorities to accelerate the reform process. we cannot, of course, forget the middle east peace process in a debate of this kind, and we reiterate our hope that the quartet meeting next monday can indeed be productive and reaffirm that this house would certainly like to see a much greater involvement of the european union in this whole process. i have no doubt that there will be a new round of negotiations before the un general assembly in september, but i hope that this round of negotiations will be productive and in good faith.
at the security council, china and russia veto action on syria, thereby inciting the assad regime to continue the slaughter. germany, britain, france and other members sell arms to saudi arabia and turn a blind eye to repression in bahrain and yemen. at least in libya the security council has taken up its responsibilities, but our europe risks failing, i am sorry to say, despite your efforts, mrs ashton and commissioner fülle. instead of acting unilaterally or in a limited way within nato, the member states of the european union should have long ago launched a common defence and security policy mission to help enforce the arms embargo, control borders and, above all, protect civilians. if eufor libya were operating in conjunction with nato, perhaps the libyan people would have already overcome the impasse that threatens so many lives in tripoli and other cities still controlled by the dictator. as we have asked in this resolution, the european union must urgently release part of the frozen funds so that the provisional national council can respond under un supervision to the basic needs of the population. this could determine the future of libya, mrs. ashton. in the post-gaddafi era, libyans and the international community will look to europe to help empower the transitional government of democratic political forces and civil society and to support the electoral, constitutional, judicial, administrative and security reforms that are necessary to build a democratic libya. the foreign service must prepare now for this great challenge in our neighborhood.
we are talking in this debate about a region which has been tormented over the years by successive aggressions, foreign occupations and interference by the great powers. a region to which war, unfortunately, is once again bringing destruction and casualties among the populations. we therefore denounce once again the intolerable aggression against libya and its people. the disgusting crimes that are being committed in this country, because that is what it is all about, however much the cynical pretext of protecting civilians is invoked. we hereby reiterate our longstanding commitment to the defence of freedom and democracy. a commitment also to the defence of the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the principle of non-interference, respect for the sovereignty of peoples and the territorial independence of states. a commitment calling for the immediate withdrawal of all foreign troops stationed in the north african and middle east region, an immediate end to the bombing of libya, as well as all military action by nato and its allies. i would also like to reiterate our solidarity with the palestinian people and their struggle to build an independent and sovereign state with its capital in east jerusalem.
madam president, i do not take democracy for granted because for the first 21 years of my life i lived under dictatorship. so i know the importance of support for those forces who want to fight against oppression and of democratic support for building capacity for the financial and organisational support. that is the reason why already in 2010 i proposed, in the context of the annual report on human rights of this parliament, an amendment talking about an endowment for democracy. so i welcome this report by véronique de keyser, which is so comprehensive and so good, and which contains this particular proposal. in my opinion this endowment needs to be something that will be very flexible, very quick, and which will not compete with the funds for the instrument for democracy on human rights. that will be new money. and it will not be duplicating what, for example, the european political foundations are already doing. it requires strong cross-party parliamentary control on the part of this parliament and obviously it is meant to support all these young people, all these brave women, all those brave men, and all those political parties in the independent media who are trying to be established in our neighbourhood.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the commission's statement, which is in line with the european parliament's recommendation. i would like to stress that the commissioner told us that for the commission schengen is one of the most important achievements of european integration. schengen means freedom of movement, but schengen also means more security, with the strengthening of external borders, police, customs and judicial cooperation and the creation of the schengen information system and the common visa policy. schengen presupposes mutual trust between the member states of the schengen area, because its security depends on the rigorousness and effectiveness with which each member state controls its borders. schengen also presupposes solidarity and, let us be honest, solidarity has not been evident in the way we have reacted to the flow of immigration from north africa, which has put the issues of reception and reception in several member states under great pressure. i recognize that we are going through a troubled period, but in no case can this serve as an excuse to undermine the great achievement of schengen. schengen is synonymous with freedom and this reality cannot and must not be distorted or diminished, but must be protected, strengthened and developed. the attempt to unilaterally reintroduce border controls as an easy solution is a concession to populism and a threat to the common heritage. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of border control officers and of border control officers. finally, madam president, i note the commission's encouraging words, but i regret the absence of the council. the adoption of this resolution is also a test of the council's credibility. the council must prove that it is prepared to work loyally with this parliament, also in the schengen evaluation mechanism.
i am sorry, madam president, that we have reached this situation of the suspension or drastic reduction of a food aid scheme at a time of the greatest economic and social crisis in several member states of the european union. the european court of justice's decision, following a complaint from germany, to reduce funding from eur 500 million in 2011 to just eur 113 million in the following years, all in the year following the european year against poverty, contradicts all official statements by the european union of its commitment to this fight and its own goals to combat poverty and social exclusion. it is a scandal that food aid is being reduced by 80%, which is currently being provided to some 13 million people here in the european union. in this european parliament we have emphasized on several occasions the fundamental nature of the right to food and the need to improve access for everyone, at any time, to the food necessary for an active and healthy life. we therefore advocate the continuation of this support, bearing in mind that more than 80 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty. in 2010, we adopted a report here that advocates the application of guaranteed minimum incomes in all member states on the basis of at least 60% of the national median income of each country. we therefore urge the commission and the council to find a way forward without delay with the programme and the scheme for the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived people on the basis of the eur 500 million, and then to come forward with a proposal and a timetable for implementing the minimum income scheme.
in writing. in the context of the current crisis, it is not acceptable that, for technical reasons, the needs of the most vulnerable people cannot be met in the same proportion through food aid programmes. in the light of the judgment of the court of justice of the european communities, i call on the european commission and the council to find a legal solution to allow the resumption and continuation of these food aid programmes, at least in the same proportion as in the past and as soon as possible.
madam president, this report is clearly out of step with the reality of the european union and the times in which we live, and we therefore do not support it. we are rightly opposed to the proposal for 25 additional meps to be elected from a single constituency covering the whole of the european union, favouring the largest countries in particular, forgetting that we currently have 27 member states whose people have the right to elect as meps people who know them and who have regular contact with them. secondly, it is unacceptable that the right of representation of small and mediumsized member states should once again be attacked, their possibility of direct representation being reduced, which will ultimately further alienate the elected from the voting citizens, impoverish democracy and contribute to an increase in abstention in european elections.
member of the commission. − madam president, it was indeed a very interesting discussion. since i have taken a lot of time already, i would like just to agree with all the members who underlined that there really is a need to improve citizens’ interest in european affairs and to encourage and inspire them to vote in the elections. the european commission is already determined to improve the environment in which future european elections take place. referring to electoral reform, for which parliament – as we know – has a right of initiative, i would like to say that we are looking forward to having the conclusions of the debate on the report by mr duff, and will come back to you afterwards.
in writing. we are faced with a report whose content is unacceptable. we hope that the postponement of your vote and your return to the committee will mean that your proposals will not be accepted, although it is well known that many proposals of an equally anti-democratic nature, which do not gather the necessary consensus at an early stage, end up being accepted later. there are countless examples in the european union. the principle of equality between sovereign states is increasingly being disregarded, and the idea of the superstate, in which a directory of powers concentrates power and ensures that, in the main, decisions are in line with the interests they defend, is being encouraged. the other states are reduced to an increasingly auxiliary role and to a position of clear subordination to the options of the 'command centre'. the door to this path, which was opened by successive revisions of the treaties and, most especially, by the treaty of lisbon, is now being widened. the rapporteur's proposal for the distribution of seats in the european parliament takes two more seats away from portugal, leaving the combined weight of the six largest countries untouched - already in the majority compared to the remaining 21 (together they account for 56% of parliamentary representation). but this inequality would certainly be substantially aggravated by the introduction of the proposed additional single area.
in writing. - i support this report, agreeing with the rapporteur that a european year of this kind can and should be a good opportunity to reflect on the challenge that demographic change poses to the european union and its member states. but it should also pave the way for the adoption of solid commitments to promote active ageing at all levels. efforts should be made to consolidate the results of the european year in the framework of specific policies and programmes in all relevant strategic areas, thus promoting its continued practical adoption.
in writing. − demographic ageing is a challenge for society and for all generations in the european union. it is essential that european social models take account of their effects. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the european year of active ageing to be held in 2012. this initiative aims at creating a culture of active ageing throughout life in the european union based on a society for all ages. promoting active ageing means creating better opportunities for older citizens to play their role in the labour market, combating poverty, encouraging active participation in family life and society, promoting solidarity and cooperation between generations and encouraging ageing in dignity. active ageing also contributes to achieving a high level of employment in the european union and optimising opportunities for health and participation in society in order to improve the quality of life as people age.
in writing. - population ageing is one of the most important challenges that europe is facing and will face. increasing life expectancy and improving health conditions now allow people to live better and longer, increasing the proportion of the non-active population, while the birth rate, which has stagnated since the 1980s, does not allow the active population to replenish itself, creating difficulties for social security systems. eurostat projections foresee a decline of around 6.8% in the number of people of working age by 2030, with only two workers being able to afford a pension (currently the ratio is 4 to 1). this, as you can see, poses serious problems for the sustainability of the system. that is why, in the knowledge that people are getting older today, we need to find ways of ensuring active, independent and healthy ageing, by ensuring that people over 65 remain in the labour market or take on other forms of social intervention, whether in volunteering or in the family, thus freeing up public resources and constituting a real added value for societies.
in writing. − the ageing of the population is one of the major political challenges facing the european union. as 2012 is the european year for active ageing, urgent and concerted action is needed to affirm europe as a society for all ages and to put people at the centre of politics, society and the economy. in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, effective and concrete action by the european union and the member states is required, not least because there is already a high rate of unemployment among young people and the difficulty of financing pension schemes is already felt. if the current demographic trend is maintained, there will be a profound change in the structure of the population and the age pyramid within a few years. by 2050, the number of young people aged 0-14 will increase from 100 million to 66 million and the working age population will increase from 331 million to 268 million. in addition, the number of people aged over 80 will increase from 4.1% in 2005 to 11.4% in 2050. i am in favour of an integrated response based on the promotion of equity and solidarity between generations, on the link between pension systems, the budget, debt, as well as health care, rehabilitation, promotion of births, family protection and anti-discrimination policies.
in writing. − 2012 has been proclaimed by the european commission as the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. a vague concept such as active ageing can encompass very different conceptions, as is evident from the contradictions presented in the report. on the one hand, it emphasises the need for better employment opportunities, the promotion of better health and safety conditions at work for older workers, more active family policies and addresses the issue of people with disabilities and chronic illnesses. on the other hand, there is a cross-cutting defence of the increase in the retirement age, adding that one of the effects of demographic ageing will be the change in european social models. the pressure on health, social and pension systems must therefore be reduced. we cannot support the theses which aim to align the retirement age with the average life expectancy (in its most fundamentalist versions), which constitutes an intolerable civilizational setback, contradictory even to the fight against unemployment. these tend to ignore factors such as the possibilities opened up by scientific and technological progress and its profound impacts on increasing labour productivity, and instead seek enhanced conditions for the exploitation of the labour force.
in writing. − the european commission intends to make 2012 the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, using a vague concept of active ageing that can encompass many conceptions, including some against older people, as is evident in the contradictions in the report. on the one hand, it emphasises the need for better employment opportunities, better health and safety conditions at work for older workers, more cooperation between younger workers through training of young workers by older workers and volunteering so that older workers can share their skills, insisting on more active policies in the area of the family and raising the issue of people with disabilities and chronic diseases. on the other hand, there is a cross-cutting defence of increasing the retirement age, stressing that healthy ageing can contribute to older people participating more in the labour market, staying active in society for longer. it adds that one of the effects of demographic ageing will be to change european social models, aiming to reduce the pressure on health, social action and pension systems. we disagree with this view, which is to punish the elderly by prolonging their lives, which also harms the young and contributes to increasing unemployment.
in writing. − the ageing of the population is one of the most important challenges facing the european union, but it is also one of the greatest opportunities. for these reasons, the ageing of the population could be seen as a major challenge, not to say a risk, or it could offer new opportunities for european society, depending on how we prepare for it. one of the keys to overcoming this challenge is to ensure that people aged close to 60 and over remain longer in the labour market, continue to be active participants in society and remain healthy and independent for as long as possible. it is therefore a challenge for which european society must prepare itself, and if done well and well in advance, it could be an opportunity for europe to prosper more rapidly and with a greater degree of social cohesion between generations.
in writing. − this report is important and urgent, given that our european population is getting older, with birth rates generally insufficient to ensure generational renewal and with a reversed demographic pyramid in several member states. at the same time, it is emphasised that numerous scientific studies in the medical field point to the extension of active life as the best psychosomatic therapy for healthy ageing. in this context, the european year of active ageing will be an added incentive for the physical and intellectual activity of the older population and a call to attention to the younger generation for the merit of the various forms of activity developed by the elderly. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the general ageing of the population is a phenomenon common to the european union, where considerable changes will be seen over the next 20 years. over the period 1995-2015, the 20-29 age group is estimated to lose 11 million people (-20%), while the 50-64 age group will increase by 16.5 million (+25%). i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that europe must take a growing interest in the active and healthy ageing of its citizens by defining programmatic actions to stimulate greater independence, accident prevention, rehabilitation after illness and the practice of sporting activities throughout europe. the european year for active ageing should also be an opportunity to establish greater intergenerational solidarity, as the exchange of knowledge between older people and young people will allow, on the one hand, to increase the skills and competences of future generations and, on the other hand, to enhance the life experience of older people. it should also be a year designed to make european businesses aware of the importance of developing new products and services that meet the special needs of this specific sector of the population.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, considering that the winds of change are still blowing throughout the arab world and that the demonstrations in syria, yemen and bahrain continue to call for genuine democracy and political, economic and social reforms to combat corruption and nepotism, to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, to reduce social inequalities and to create better economic and social conditions. the eu must condemn tyranny and oppression unreservedly and do everything possible to ensure that regimes which use violence against their own people lose their legitimacy.
in writing. - i am pleased to see this joint resolution, of which i am one of the first signatories, on the situation in syria, yemen and bahrain, in the context of the situation in the arab world and north africa, adopted. in this context of instability in the arab world and north africa, the international community, and in particular europe, must take swift and effective action, including greater involvement in the middle east peace process. as president of the maxerek delegation, i regret that the international community has two ways of looking at syria in the eyes of public opinion. we must also denounce the position of russia and china, which have used their veto power to prevent the international community from adopting a position more consistent with our fundamental values.
in writing. - the outbreak of uprisings in the muslim world last december revealed that the situation was much more heterogeneous and complex than might have been thought. suddenly, the sounds and images coming from places like tahrir square in cairo were a reflection of the restlessness and frustrations and the deep desire for change. i believe that the european union cannot ignore the violations of human rights and civil liberties that are taking place. the syrian and yemeni cases are particularly brutal and deserve our firm repudiation. the european union must seek to help those who are fighting for the values we share and use the means at its disposal to demand that the governments which are challenging them cease such practices which undermine human dignity.
in writing. - the european union, true to its democratic history and pluralistic culture and to the promotion of freedom, has a duty to play an active role in defending the legitimate and democratic aspirations of the arab peoples, particularly in syria, yemen and bahrain, where there is a strong popular demand for political, economic and social reforms. the extension of absolutist and oppressive powers has led to an unacceptable deterioration in the living conditions of the population and the atrophy of economic and socio-cultural development, with pernicious effects and unsustainable imbalances in the global world in which we live. it is therefore for the european union to advocate determined action in the context of the un to ensure the defence of the rights of peoples and to support their legitimate representatives in implementing policies aimed at improving the living conditions of citizens and social inequalities, ensuring the development of a genuine democracy, combating corruption and nepotism and ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. − in several countries of the arab world, major workers' and citizens' movements are calling for better living conditions, are rising up against injustice, unemployment and corruption, and are demanding more democracy and rights. this resolution shows the eu's usual double standards. on the one hand, they invoke the protection of civilians to justify wars of aggression with very different interests and motivations against sovereign countries, as in the case of libya, which is subject to aerial bombardments, or the development of open actions of external interference in syria. however, on the other hand, they praise the reforms in morocco, silencing the fact that this country illegally occupies western sahara and has oppressed the sarawi people since the 1970s. it is also in this spirit that there is absolute silence on the situation of constant aggression in palestine, which has been unleashed by israel. it is unacceptable that parliament should continue to adopt a position of external interference with the countries concerned and of consent to military interventions, while failing to adopt political positions leading to a peaceful resolution of the conflicts. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. − peaceful protesters in north africa and the middle east expressed legitimate democratic aspirations and a strong demand for political, economic and social reforms leading to genuine democracy, combating corruption and nepotism, ensuring respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, reducing social inequalities and creating better economic and social conditions. it is therefore essential that the eu maintains its policy of supporting these countries so that their people can see their living conditions improved.
in writing. - i join the european parliament's present resolution on the situation in the arab world and its express call on the european union to continue to provide the necessary humanitarian aid to the displaced people in the region, many of whom are now living as refugees on their country's borders, and to insist that foreign workers in the country be evacuated as soon as possible.
in writing. − i support this proposal insofar as it insists on strict eligibility criteria for eu budget support; i stress that the commission should refrain from using this modality in countries where there is no guarantee of transparency in public expenditure and that budget support should always be accompanied by measures aimed at developing the parliamentary control and audit capacities of the beneficiary country and at increasing transparency and public access to information. i also stress the need to involve civil society in the monitoring of budget support. there is no doubt that the independence of the judiciary and the media is also important in shaping and regulating a democratic process aimed at strengthening the rule of law, building democratic institutions, including an efficient parliament that is representative of political pluralism, and strengthening the role of civil society.
in writing. − the european union must resist over-pragmatism in promoting democracy in the world and must have agile and imaginative mechanisms to enable it to interact with citizens and their movements working locally for that purpose. the recent upheavals in the muslim world make this need for proper knowledge and interaction and for putting democracy and human rights among the european union's top effective priorities evident. it is therefore not enough to make proclamations and legislative texts, but we must translate them into direct knowledge and concrete measures that strengthen our capacity for action and influence, while strengthening our international legitimacy and the soft power at our disposal. the creation of a european democracy fund would be an excellent step in this direction. the union must not only be an island where the rights, freedoms and guarantees of its citizens are respected and promoted, but also put its experience at the service of those who call on it.
in writing. − recognising the indispensable nature of the democratic and pluralist system to ensure the representativeness of a people, i welcome the broad consensus of the different policies on the strengthening of the european union's mechanisms of intervention to support, promote and monitor the systems of constitutional democracy in the world. the instability and social tension that are currently most acute in north africa and the middle east, but whose phenomenon is extending to other areas of the world - such as latin america, asia and even europe - highlight the importance of social justice and the stability of a democratic regime based on the rule of law as pillars of the construction of a peaceful, prosperous and democratic society and global security. the european union, with its experience of overcoming dictatorial regimes and its democratic experience, should play a cooperative role with third countries and implement cooperation programmes in order to encourage the initiative of local democratic institutions and ensure commitments to defend the interests of the population and civil society.
in writing. the de keyser report is the concrete expression of the arrogance and hypocrisy of the ep majority in the context of the deepening crisis of capitalism and the process of re-assembling forces at world level. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the middle east calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. their position is all the more arrogant and hypocritical when the same majority is the main actor in a process of impoverishing democracy by attacking the economic and social rights of workers and peoples in the eu, as is happening in portugal, or by violating their rights, freedoms and guarantees. the peoples' struggle is the most certain and sure answer to stop all those who, like the majority in the ep, try to stop the march of history.
in writing. − the treaties of the european union proclaim human rights and democracy as the union's founding values and as principles and objectives of the union's external action which it must promote as universal values. since democracy is the best safeguard of human rights and fundamental freedoms, tolerance for all groups in society and equal opportunities for all people, the eu's external policies must be geared to helping the democratisation of countries that are not yet living under a democratic regime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. all the reflections on the eu's external policies in favour of democratisation are important. in the report, i stress the idea that partnerships based on dialogue and consultation strengthen the ownership of the processes of building democracy and elements of democratic governance. democracy is alive and well and i therefore join the call in this report to all the institutions of the union to intensify their efforts to use these different dialogues in a more coherent, consistent and coordinated way.
in writing. - i support this s&d group motion for a resolution. political pluralism is a pillar of democracy and modern society and a source of political legitimacy - the european court of human rights has condemned the russian federation for human rights violations in many cases and the implementation of these judgments remains insufficient. it is therefore important that the eu speaks with one voice, shows solidarity and unity in its relations with the russian federation and builds those relations on mutual interests and common values, reaffirming its conviction that russia remains one of the european union's most important partners in strategic cooperation. i note with equal concern that in the russian federation another independent political party - the people's freedom party - has been refused registration.
in writing. - russia's progress towards democracy and the establishment of the rule of law is well known, but unfortunately the difficulties still remain. i would like to see a greater degree of convergence with the good practices followed internationally and, in the context of the forthcoming elections to the duma, to see that these practices are actually followed. the wishes and aspirations of the people for full democracy and the election of a parliament that reflects the will of the people will thus be respected. the authorisation by the russian authorities of an osce/council of europe election observation mission for an extended period and their full cooperation with it would enhance the international credibility of the electoral act and allow independent experts to assess and evaluate it. i hope that russia, a crucial partner of the european union, will take advantage of the next elections to continue in the right direction.
in writing. − the process of democratization in russia needs to be deepened and matured in order to provide an environment of trust and stability in relations with the european union, which is absolutely fundamental for the better development of stronger, lasting and sustainable bilateral relations. the limitations on democratic freedom and freedom of expression, on the guarantees of human rights and on the independence of the judiciary that still exist in russia are evident. we must recognize that we are talking about a recent democracy with a very specific history. but it is clear that the country's socioeconomic and even cultural development is not being accompanied by the political system, with consequences for the development of the state itself and its relations with the rest of the world. the complexity of the legislation promotes bureaucracy, corruption, judicial instrumentalization and legislative manipulation, which has allowed the removal of a new political party in the new electoral process. in this context, i agree that the european union should proceed with caution in the negotiations for a new agreement with russia and keep the significant developments in the new partnership and cooperation agreement on hold until the results of the december duma elections and the 2012 presidential elections in russia are finalized and evaluated.
in writing. - political pluralism is a cornerstone of democracy and modern society, as well as a source of political legitimacy. the eu is also concerned about the situation in the country and the situation in the region, and calls on the authorities of the country to take all necessary measures to ensure that the elections are held in a fair and orderly manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. plurality is a fundamental vector of democracy. our societies are proof of that. the desire of any people is to know that they are fully represented in their organs of sovereignty. the people's assemblies must receive representatives of all opinions. i hope that all obstacles to this will be removed in russia.
in writing. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of resolutions on the future of the eu, including the one on the future of the eu's external relations. the resolution also believes that effective support to member states to ensure compliance with the schengen acquis in the event of pressure at the external borders can already be addressed in full through the new schengen evaluation system, currently being redefined in the ordinary legislative procedure. recalls that the massive influx of migrants and asylum seekers at the external borders cannot in any case be considered as an additional reason for the reintroduction of border controls and believes that the european union's response cannot be the closure of internal borders, but the joint management of external borders based on rigorous solidarity mechanisms funded under article 80 tfeu;
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the schengen amendments because the free movement of persons within the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of european integration and freedom of movement is a fundamental right and a pillar of eu citizenship.
in writing. - freedom of movement within the european union is one of the most remarkable features of the process of integration between the member states and one of the most emblematic of the good that this process has brought. the restriction of this freedom would be a setback to which our peoples would have difficulty getting used to again. however, it is undeniable that the freedom to move freely throughout the union and the end of internal border constraints have created problems for several member states, which are faced in many cases with illegal immigration. we must therefore seek balanced solutions to this problem without definitively calling into question a value so dear to europeans, which is essential for the maintenance of an area of genuine freedom, security and justice. it is also necessary to strengthen the capacity of member states to control external borders, to assess how they apply the schengen acquis and to seek to adopt best practices with a view to enhancing solidarity and information sharing, thereby enhancing its objectives, preventing abuses and preventing situations of border tension.
in writing. − the schengen system is in fact one of the pillars of the european construction, given its impact on the movement of people and goods within the european union. the turbulent times of crisis and social tensions in which we find ourselves have brought to light problems relating to the control of external borders and have fuelled populist and nationalist sentiments which deny the solidarity and necessary trust which must prevail between the member states. the influx of migrants at the external borders, in particular from africa and the middle east, with the consequent responsibilities for the member states with external borders, cannot justify additional derogations or exceptional measures in the schengen system, in particular with a view to reintroducing internal borders or restrictions on free movement within the european area. i therefore welcome this resolution, which reaffirms the importance of schengen and european values.
in writing. the joint resolution signed and approved by the main political groups - the conservatives, the social democrats, the liberals and the greens - reflects the objectives of deepening the schengen information system, frontex and the whole policy of immigration with a security aspect, based fundamentally on the criminalisation of immigration, with the inhuman consequences that we are unfortunately well aware of. this insistence on strengthening schengen governance comes at a time when the situation in lampedusa and the thousands of victims and refugees of conflicts and wars in africa are visible to all. the eu itself is supporting wars in which many of its countries are taking part. we need more cooperation, more solidarity, more dialogue. that is not the way this report is going. at the same time, there is an insistence on common policies on asylum and migration, under the pretext of combating illegal immigration and organised crime, which, in the light of our experience with the directive on return or shame, can lead to greater infringements of citizens' rights and guarantees, as well as limiting the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not blocked. it is particularly serious that the insistence on strengthening schengen governance is made when we know the situation in lampedusa and all the thousands of victims and refugees of conflicts and wars in africa that the european union itself is supporting. what is needed is greater cooperation and less interference in the internal affairs of these countries, more solidarity, more dialogue and less recourse to military intervention. on the other hand, there is an insistence on common asylum and migration policies under the pretext of combating illegal immigration and organised crime, which, in the light of our experience with the return or shame directive, can lead to greater infringements of citizens' rights and guarantees, as well as limiting the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. − the schengen system has recently come under significant pressure as some member states are considering reintroducing national border controls in response to the flow of migrants from north africa. it is therefore necessary to draw up a proposal for a safeguard mechanism to respond to such exceptional circumstances. greater solidarity is needed with the member states facing the largest influx of migrants in order to help them respond to such extraordinary situations, so that the schengen area is not again put at risk in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that freedom of movement in a european area of freedom, security and justice is a fundamental right and a pillar of eu citizenship. in this respect, i regret that several member states are trying to reintroduce border controls, clearly calling into question the true spirit of the schengen acquis.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further worsened. in accordance with the treaty, the european parliament is regularly consulted on the main aspects and basic options of the cfsp and its consent is required to translate eu strategies into law and to conclude international agreements, including agreements relating mainly to the cfsp. this resolution recalls that the european parliament is a source of democratic legitimacy for the cfsp and the csdp, over which it exercises political control.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon has had the merit of highlighting the need for parliamentary cooperation and the monitoring and participation of national parliaments in the structuring of european policies. this closer ties is, in my view, essential to bring the citizens of the member states closer to the everyday life of the union and to enable a networked decision-making process which does not obscure the irreplaceable role of national parliamentarians. this contribution from national parliaments will increase the visibility of european policies and, i believe, will improve the acceptance and understanding of them by the citizens. these are particularly important in the particularly sensitive areas of the cfsp and the csdp.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of cooperation between the national parliaments of each member state and the european parliament for the further development of european integration and the benefits of a common foreign policy, i support this resolution, which clarifies the mechanisms for promoting the sharing of responsibilities in the organisation and exercise of effective and regular interparliamentary cooperation, with particular emphasis on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp). interparliamentary cooperation and joint responsibility also aim to strengthen the guarantees of protection of the interests and security of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the intensification of interparliamentary cooperation in the field of cfsp and csdp would strengthen parliamentary influence on the policy choices made by the eu and its member states, thanks to the european parliament's powers in the common policies of the union, including the cfsp/csdp, and the prerogatives of each national parliament in national decisions on security and defence policy. i would therefore call on the polish presidency to work towards an agreement between the european parliament and the national parliaments on new forms of interparliamentary cooperation in this field.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it therefore calls on the commission and the council to develop a transitional solution for the remaining years of the funding period (2012 and 2013) in order to avoid an immediate and sharp reduction in food aid resulting from the reduction in funding from eur 500 million to eur 113 million and to ensure that people dependent on food aid are not victims of food poverty.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - according to european commission figures, 43 million people in the european union are at risk of food poverty, making aid programmes crucial to ensuring a minimum standard of living for them. it is therefore incomprehensible that, at a time when the crisis threatens to increase the number of situations of poverty, the commission proposes to cut the funding of the food aid programme from eur 500 million in 2011 to only eur 113 million in 2012. i therefore join the various political groups in urging the commission to review its decision to cut food aid, drawing attention to the fact that it is increasingly necessary and important. the necessary reduction in expenditure cannot justify social insensibility, especially to the poorest and most vulnerable in our society.
in writing. − the fight against poverty, social exclusion and malnutrition is of central importance for social cohesion and the success of european integration. it is also one of the five priorities of strategy 2020. today, we have 79 million poor people and about 30 million undernourished people in the eu. in this context, the european union cannot compromise a programme which has proved to be of vital importance for the poorest and which provides more than 440 000 tonnes of food for 18 million people. i therefore support this resolution, stressing the concern about the risks of worsening rural poverty and the collapse of rural communities, as well as the importance of healthy and good quality food for children in relation to their developmental and educational needs.
in writing. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to find a way to continue the scheme of food distribution to the most deprived people in 2012 and 2013 (the remaining years of the current funding period) and also in the new funding period 2014-2020, avoiding the prospect of its outright weakening. in addition to the transitional solution for 2012 and 2013, in the longer term all actors involved should carefully assess the adequacy of the food aid programme, in particular as an element of the cap, in the context of the new funding period from 2014. the resolution also calls for the regulation on the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived to be amended in order to break the current impasse at council level. it added that the most appropriate legal basis for regulating this matter had to be found for the next financial programming period. we voted in favour of this resolution and we welcome the adoption of our proposal, which insists more strongly on maintaining this programme, maintaining the eur 500 million annual financial limit, so as to ensure that people dependent on food aid do not suffer from food poverty.
in writing. - we welcome the adoption of this resolution and our proposal to insist more strongly on the continuation of this programme. the commission and the council are asked to find a way to continue the scheme of food distribution to the most deprived persons in 2012 and 2013 (the remaining years of the current funding period) and also in the new funding period 2014-2020, keeping the eur 500 million annual financial limit, in order to ensure that people dependent on food aid do not suffer from food poverty. in addition to the transitional solution for 2012 and 2013, in the longer term all actors involved should carefully assess the adequacy of the food aid programme, in particular as an element of the cap, in the context of the new funding period from 2014. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived persons is also to be amended to resolve the current impasse in the council. it added that the most appropriate legal basis for regulating this matter should be found for the next financial programming period.
in writing. - i consider the right to food to be an inalienable right of every human being. i believe that this right must be guaranteed by a fair economic model, which allows everyone to satisfy his basic needs. however, since the economic model followed in the european union pushes 80 million people into poverty, it is absolutely necessary to guarantee this right by other means, in particular through food aid. reducing food aid from 500 million to 113 million euros, and even more in a time of economic and social crisis, is absolutely shameful. several families will be deprived of food. it is unacceptable for the european union to save by cutting support for the poorest of the poor, dramatically increasing social inequality. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the scheme for the distribution of food to the most deprived, set up in 1987 under the cap, currently provides food aid to 13 million people in poverty in 19 member states and involves some 240 food banks and charities in the distribution chains. in the eu, 43 million people are at risk of food poverty, according to the commission's own estimates, a figure which will tend to increase due to the economic and financial crisis and the sharp rise in food prices. we must therefore try to avoid an immediate and drastic reduction in food aid as a result of the reduction in the funding of the programme from 500 million to 113 million euro. the interruption of this aid programme, without prior warning or preparation, has serious repercussions for the most vulnerable eu citizens. it is therefore necessary to find a way to continue the scheme of food distribution to the most deprived persons in 2012 and 2013 (the remaining years of the current funding period) and also in the new funding period 2014-2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i stress the concern for farmers, who need to be sure that they can get a decent and fair income and pay for their work. in fact, in many regions farmers are facing serious financial difficulties and the commission needs to address the issue of rural poverty and the collapse of rural communities. i also believe that increasing food security, creating sustainable production and supply systems and minimising food waste remain crucial in the long term.
in writing. - i support this motion in so far as it proposes to open a dialogue with the european council to explore the possibility of reaching agreement on a lasting and transparent mathematical formula for the distribution of seats in parliament, in compliance with the criteria laid down in the treaties and taking into account the principles of pluralism between political parties and solidarity between member states. it also called on the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation to improve the degree of harmonisation and comparability of population data provided by the member states. it is important to stress that it is crucial for the legitimacy of the union that the composition of parliament reflects the diversity of the peoples of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the act concerning the election of the representatives of the european parliament because it contains proposals which should help to strengthen the participation of european citizens in elections to the european parliament, in particular the creation of a single pan-european electoral roll from which 25 members will be elected to the next parliament in 2014, thus reflecting the amendment introduced by the treaty of lisbon, which states that members of the european parliament are now representatives of the citizens of the union.
in writing. - considering that what is at stake is the constitution of a basic institution of the european democratic system and the representation of european citizens in the european parliament, a subject on which the debate on different points of view and proposals for reforms can and should be open, with the aim of better ensuring the expression of the will of the people, i believe that the discussion on this subject must be deepened and matured, including proposals that substantially change the content of the treaty of lisbon, such as the formation of european lists of candidates and an increase in the number of meps. i therefore vote in favour of the rapporteur's request for this report to be deferred.
in writing. - we agree with the postponement of the vote on this report, which is clearly out of step with the reality of the european union and the times we live in. as we said in the plenary, we disagree with the proposal for 25 additional meps to be elected by a single constituency covering the whole of the european union, favouring the larger countries in particular, forgetting that we currently have 27 member states whose people have the right to elect as meps people they know and who have regular contact with them. secondly, it is unacceptable that the right of representatives of small and mediumsized member states should once again be attacked, their possibility of direct representation being reduced, which will ultimately further alienate the elected from the voting citizens, impoverish democracy and contribute to an increase in abstention in elections to the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of referring the report back to committee because i believe that this is a matter on which a broad consensus is imperative.
in writing. − i welcome this report which criticises the fact that since the abolition of the relevant heading in the general eu budget in 2007, the european union has had no flexible instrument with a transnational dimension that responds coherently to the priorities of mine action and that the overall financial contribution of the eu to mine action has decreased in quantitative terms. the union therefore calls for a more specialised approach, with a budget line under the authority of a competent directorate.
in writing. − in 1999, the estimated number of victims of antipersonnel landmines was 18 000 people, and in 2009 it had fallen to approximately 4000, of whom 70% are civilians and one third are children. this is therefore a serious situation to which the international community cannot remain indifferent, especially when some states continue to use anti-personnel landmines, as is the case in burma and libya. according to the international community, and despite all the efforts made, there are still more than 90 countries affected by antipersonnel landmines, with afghanistan, colombia, pakistan, burma, cambodia and laos being the most severely affected. it is therefore urgent to continue the process of demining, in which the action of our american allies has been fundamental, both in sponsoring demining operations and in supporting programmes to assist victims, and to make every effort to ensure that governments abandon the use of anti-personnel landmines and accede to the anti-personnel mine ban treaty.
in writing. − in the context of defending the right to life and promoting peace, the fight against the eradication of mines and explosive devices for personal attack must be a priority action of the european union's external policy. despite the many positive advances that have been made in this area, we all recognise that there is still much work to be done. this is a problem that particularly affects victims in countries with high social and economic stress. given the specificities of these types of weapons in circulation and the lack of significant progress in explosives detection techniques and technologies, it is necessary to maintain financial support for this cause and to seek a more effective use of the resources available in mine action, in particular in the area of the recognition, detection, marking and removal of anti-personnel landmines and other explosive remnants of war, such as abandoned explosive ordnance, unexploded ordnance, cluster munition remnants and improvised explosive devices. i also support this report in calling for all countries to sign and comply with the ottawa convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of antipersonnel mines and on their destruction.
in writing. - we know that the ottawa convention of 3 december 1997 on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of antipersonnel mines and on their destruction, which entered into force on 1 march 1999, has been signed and ratified by 156 countries, including 25 eu member states. despite the efforts made in the fight against antipersonnel mines, 37 countries have not yet done so, including two in the european union, and we support the call for them to do so. on the other hand, as the report stresses, synergies must be found between the various dimensions of mine action, with particular emphasis on the humanitarian and development aspects and through the strengthening of local autonomy and participation in related projects, in order to better respond to the needs of the population directly affected. but we also cannot forget that this weapon, because it was cheaper, was used more by those who could not afford weapons of mass destruction, using more sophisticated technological means. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the disease and to prevent the spread of the disease.
in writing. - there is widespread support for the objective of a total ban and elimination of antipersonnel mines worldwide. i welcome the progress made in the field of mine action over the last decade. i share the concern expressed that efforts to this end need to be refocused and intensified to eliminate the threat of antipersonnel mines within a specific timeframe. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. the crimes of sexual violence in south kivu must be investigated and those responsible must be punished. it is essential to combat the culture of impunity to prevent more atrocities like this from happening. the european union must make this issue a priority in its cooperation with the drc and must denounce and condemn the companies involved in the mining of minerals that support the military and armed militias involved in these heinous crimes. the european union must also agree with the congolese authorities on other serious human rights violations, such as the recent arrest of agostinho chicaia, a civil activist from cabinda, angola, who was detained on 20 june at kinshasa airport while on a un mission. the arrest was made on the basis of a blacklist made by the angolan authorities, who say they did not request the arrest, it is a kafkaesque case that shows that human rights are also violated in this way in the democratic republic of congo. chicaia must be released immediately and the european union must also fight for this.
author. - madam president, recently at a meeting in jakarta, the representative of an indonesian human rights organization said: at the moment we have complete freedom of religion in indonesia, we can practice whatever religion we want, as long as it is not the ahmadiyya religion. there was a certain exaggeration in his statements because we know that other minorities are also at risk in indonesia, but this exaggeration was understandable because we were still in shock at the cikeusik massacre, in which three followers of this ahmadiyya religion, which considers itself muslim and which some fanatics do not want to be considered muslim, were killed. and here we have a serious problem: we know that most indonesians want peace and tolerance between religions and that's how they interpret the national principles of pancasila, but we also know that there is a minority that wants to speak for the whole of society and this is a very big challenge for the authorities. on the one hand, not to let a minority of fanatics try to take over the voice of society as a whole and, on the other hand, the government can clearly exercise a political repulsion towards such attempts and, from this point of view, i think it is very worrying that certain statements by the minister of religious affairs of indonesia have given the impression that the ahmadiyya religion is a religion that cannot declare itself muslim. i believe that if the indonesian government does not want the spirit of these fanatics to contaminate the rest of society, they must be very clear in their fight against intolerance and that is what we here in the european parliament are asking the indonesian authorities to do.
madam president, i lived in indonesia and i love indonesia. i know well the extraordinary progress that indonesia has made since the first free elections in 1999 in practising democracy and respect for human rights and civic and political freedoms. i believe that in europe we must appreciate – and i think we do in this resolution – how society in indonesia, now the third largest democracy and the largest muslim nation in the world, has firmly engraved in its fabric the values of diversity, pluralism, and tolerance, be it ethnic, linguistic, religious or political. it is that which makes indonesia strong and appealing and inspiring throughout the world. i would say like europe, the europe that i want. but in indonesia, as in europe, we see that extremists and fanatics are sowing bigotry, hatred and intolerance. this is shown in crimes like the ones against ahmadiyya followers or people in papua. in indonesia some of these extremists may be used by terrorist organisations or incite people to undermine the democratic system. this is one more reason why these extremists must be combated politically and ideologically and their crimes must receive exemplary punishment. i hope that the people in the indonesian government will read this resolution as an expression of concern for the victims and as a genuine expression of solidarity and encouragement for all those brave people in indonesian civil society – in government, in parliament, in the judiciary and in the media – that are fighting against these criminals and for the end of their impunity. i would like to recall a good friend who has been doing just that: suciwati, the widow of the great human rights campaigner munir who was murdered a couple of years ago. the perpetrators of his murder have not yet been fully brought to justice.
on behalf of the s&d group. the next ministerial meeting of the world trade organisation in geneva next december will mark the 10th anniversary of the launch of the doha round negotiations. unfortunately, it won't mark your success. on the contrary, we are now faced with the fact that the window of opportunity which last year was expected for this year for a comprehensive, fair and balanced agreement for a global trade agreement is closing ever closer, as pascal lamy stated on 26 july last at an informal meeting of the wto's trade negotiations committee, and i quote: what we are seeing today is the paralysis in the negotiating function of the wto (...) what we are facing is the inability of the wto to adapt and adjust to emerging global trade priorities, those you cannot solve through bilateral deals end of quote. the doha round is really about the need for a general and harmonious opening up of international trade and its placing at the service of development, especially of the least developed countries. in this context, the socialist and democratic group broadly supports the resolution adopted in the committee on international trade of this parliament on the ongoing negotiations on the doha development agenda. however, we decided to table some amendments in order to underline our commitment to the multilateral system and the development objectives of the doha round. the socialists and democrats deeply regret that the doha negotiations seem to have reached an impassable impasse. but we must therefore press the european union commission to continue to give priority to a multilateral rules-based trading system, established through the world trade organisation. even if the doha round fails, the union must continue to strive for a global international trade order that delivers on the doha objectives, building on what has been achieved over 10 years rather than throwing it away. although the global economy has changed a great deal since the last 10 years, we socialists believe that the developing countries, and especially the least developed countries, remain, more than ever, the essential issue of the negotiations. we therefore support the wto director-general's proposal for an early harvest, which is scheduled for december this year at the ministerial meeting. however, we will continue to give strong support after the ministerial meeting to the conclusion of a general multilateral trade agreement.
the crisis of the profitability of capital, its unprecedented degree of centralization and concentration and the associated tendency of the rate of profit to fall correspond to the dynamics of the development of capitalism that have long been studied and described. free trade has been one of the pillars of the neo-liberal response to the systemic crisis of capitalism over the past two decades. a response tailored to the interests of the major economic groups, the great powers, seeking to guarantee them access to new markets, greater availability of labour, a reduction in unit labour costs, easier access to raw materials, that is, better conditions for exploiting workers and nature. this has undoubtedly meant more profits for these large economic groups, but for the workers and the people the promised wonders of free trade, proclaimed by their heralds, well represented in the commission and in this parliament, never materialize. on the contrary, what we are facing is the destruction and relocation of productive activities and jobs, the attack on social and labour rights, the ruin of millions of small producers and many small and mediumsized enterprises, but also the degradation of the environment and natural resources. this is the road to doha. it is a path which must be taken urgently in the interests of the workers and peoples of europe and the world. international trade must be geared to the establishment of fair and equitable mutually beneficial economic relations, and must be based on relations of complementarity rather than on competition between producing countries and the labour force. it must be at the service of the development of peoples and countries and not just of certain economic and financial groups.
for the gue/ngl group i too would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his work in describing the current raw material needs of european industry, the redundancy, and also on his emphasis on the environmental risks associated with it and on recycling strategies. i think that these are all positive aspects of the report that is being presented here. but i think we should take the commission's proposal into account and i cannot agree in any way with this model that is being put forward, the so-called raw materials diplomacy. this proposal, together with the proposal to establish a monitoring mechanism at the level of the g8 or the g20, reinforces, in my view, a division, a new division, or reinforces the division of the world between the industrialized countries with raw material needs, as we all know and these are legitimate, and these are on the one hand, and on the other hand, the poor countries which are rich in raw materials but which cannot even access them. we know that there are forces within the european industrial context which want to ensure the supply of these raw materials by all means necessary. this worldview is a throwback to the past, a thinking of the past, and europe should have learned by now because we have at least 500 years of experience in this field. so there is no guarantee that the commodity diplomacy model will not translate into diplomatic blackmail. the developing countries and their people must have a right to their resources and i think that the new model of development we should be talking about, as has already been said, is more innovative, and i think that the focus of the external action service should be cooperation and not business diplomacy.
we agree that an effective strategy on raw materials is needed. it is necessary to avoid situations such as the one in 2007-2008, when many raw materials reached exorbitant prices or were not available at all, mainly due to speculation that hit the raw materials market. all conditions must be created to ensure that the physical market is not overshadowed by the financial market in derivatives, the volume of which has grown disproportionately over the years. but to protect it from speculation which can make raw materials inaccessible, it is not enough to talk about transparency in general, we must go much further. the commission is also proposing to ensure that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy, and that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy. the commission is also proposing to ensure that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy, and that the european union's energy policy is based on a common energy policy. finally, we also stress the importance of developing, properly using and recycling materials as fully as possible, either because of the shortage of many primary raw materials, or to generate secondary sources, or to reduce negative impacts at the end of life and avoid polluting waste, or to create indigenous industrial opportunities. we hope that the commission will take account of these various aspects in an effective strategy.
the lack of resources has aggravated the international situation, leading to a race for resources and widening the divisions between countries with resources and countries without resources. no one benefited from that. new approaches are therefore needed to address the issue of raw materials (pm), especially essential ones, in an innovative way and to promote innovation in order to ultimately avoid situations of disadvantage for all parties. a coherent and targeted strategy with priority actions on pms needs to be developed. an industrial innovation strategy to ensure mp and our competitiveness. any strategy on pm should ultimately focus on increasing innovation in the way european industries use pm, because this will make a significant contribution to our competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. the challenge of ms must be turned into an opportunity to strengthen the eu's industrial power by harnessing our innovation and r & d potential. in addition to an industrial innovation strategy aimed at reducing resource consumption and increasing recycling, and in addition to the sustainable internal potential it possesses, the eu will of course have to continue to rely on third countries for its pms.
ladies and gentlemen, in angola recently, a peaceful and authorized demonstration was violently attacked by the police and several protesters were arrested. these protesters are still in custody and have not had contact with their families or their lawyers. i would suggest to our vice-president/high representative ashton that she contact the angolan authorities and make them understand that, as signatories to the cotonou agreements, they cannot continue with their sad record of human rights violations. mr president, commissioner oettinger recently made statements that indebted european countries should have their flags at half-mast, saying that this would be a symbol with great deterrent power. it would indeed be a symbol, but of a europe that has lost its values and ideals, where all member states should be entitled to exactly the same dignity in their flags no more and no less. we should tell mr oettinger that he has not understood the european ideal and that he should therefore either withdraw his words or resign. and i ask the president to convey this concern of parliament to the european commission.
mr president, in many areas of portugal wine growers are experiencing a crisis which could reach serious proportions because of the sharp fall in their incomes, coupled with huge losses in production this year due to damage from bad weather and vine disease. then there are measures and legislative proposals which are contributing to the financial collapse, especially of small winegrowers. this is why the douro demarcated region, which has been classified for over 250 years and where the famous port wine is produced, is experiencing moments of anguish and indignation, as was already visible in the two recent demonstrations in this region. the same is happening elsewhere, as was the case last week at a farmers' demonstration in palmela. and so we leave this cry of alarm and appeal for support and solidarity with emergency measures for portuguese wine growers.
the union is becoming a disappointment that nothing can hide. it has forgotten its principles, it ignores its institutions, it disrespects its states and, despite all the treaties, it is incredibly governed from summit to summit by merkel and sarkozy. the states, the commission and, above all, this parliament are being subordinated. we who are here, elected by europeans, entrusted with the task of deciding together on the best policies and the best course for europe, cannot continue to eat and shut up about this way of doing things which is not ours. it is beginning to make a school of this way of treating countries, disrespecting nations whose history demands inclination and respect. i cannot help but be indignant at the remarks of commissioner oettinger, who proposes that the flags of the countries with excessive deficits should be displayed side by side. just pitiful! europe cannot escape by hurting the dignity of its nations and peoples. europe has a way out through solidarity and unity. you need leaders who do.
mr president, to say that the recent statements by commissioner günther oettinger, arguing that the flags of countries with excessive budget deficits should be flown at half-mast on the buildings of the european institutions, are disproportionate, unjustified, not to say demeaning. europe is a space of cohesion and it is a space of solidarity. it's not a space of exclusion. much less a place of stigmatization. portugal is making a tremendous effort to solve its problems at the cost of an equivalent sacrifice by its people, and here what we need from the european institutions, like the other countries in difficulty, is cohesion, support and solidarity. portugal is an old nation that has had crises. he always got through it. you'll get through this. moreover, mr president, if the violation of the rules of the eurozone stabilisation agreement were to be a reason to put our flags at half-mast, no country would escape. surely not even germany would escape.
it is symptomatic, ladies and gentlemen, that in the economic crisis to which the audit system has led us, or in which it has played such a central role, this oligopoly of the four rating agencies has not yet been the subject of serious legislation by the european institutions. and so, my colleague, mr masip hidalgo, deserves credit for having reflected on this subject in his report and for having tried to push this subject, which is not a taboo subject, forward. to wait forever for companies to meet ethical standards that fall from the sky and that they decide to follow on their own is not a path and is not a future for our economies and for the credibility of our banking systems or european markets. we cannot help but want the public system to become the verifier pole of the credibility of these audit agencies. but i think we should take this to an even broader level: the audit system itself must be plural, the audit firms must not all be subject to the same incentives and motivations, and they must not be paid for by their clients and speculators, and then replaced by a mere public system which is itself the target of little credibility. it is necessary to temper them with a true pluralism which emerges, for example, from the academic and university system, from the statistical institutes, from the european audit agencies, and to calibrate all these audit poles to create a true plural and credible audit system.
madam president, the rapporteur is right to refer to the ecological specificities of the black sea region, in addition to the natural socioeconomic specificities that also exist. we have always maintained that it is through local management that takes account of these specificities, involving local people and communities, that the objectives of a fisheries policy can best be achieved: ensuring the public supply of fish to the population, promoting the development of coastal communities, employment and improving the living conditions of fishermen in a framework of resource sustainability. on the contrary, the kind of centralised management that the current common fisheries policy has been promoting, and that the lisbon treaty emphasises, is moving us away from these objectives, as practice has shown. we support several of the concerns expressed by the rapporteur in her report. we also follow up on several of the suggestions, from increased cooperation between riverine states to the importance of multiannual management plans and the increase in scientific knowledge to support the necessary ecosystem approach to fisheries management. but there are also aspects on which we cannot agree, and i would like to stress the insistence on the so-called european coast guard. this is not the appropriate framework for the necessary development of cooperation between member states in the areas covered by this report, and we do not understand why this subject is being taken up here.
madam president, experience and numerous accidents have already shown that offshore oil and gas exploration cannot continue to be carried out with the sole aim of maximising profits for the economic groups involved in such activities, at the expense of the safety of their workers and the population. it is essential that there are very clear rules in the defence of the environment, the public interest, the workers involved, the neighbouring populations, and that they are guaranteed to be complied with. there must be effective supervision, there must be a strict monitoring of what is happening and the public interest must be given priority over private interests. that is what we expect from the european commission in the proposals it is to present to us.
the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico, the result of a colossal oil spill into the sea, has raised concerns about the risks, responsibilities and legislation governing oil exploration and extraction. the report on eu action in the field of oil exploration and extraction in europe reflects the eu's responsibility to ensure the protection of its coasts and its capacity to respond to such environmental disasters. i welcome the introduction of my suggestions, particularly as regards european coordination and the role of emsa. in terms of coordination at eu level and with neighbouring countries, there is a need to ensure best practice and harmonisation of the various approaches across the various regions of the eu, both at accident prevention and response level. i would like to highlight the role of the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, which provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and protection in the area of pollution caused by ships. this report proposes to extend the powers of the european maritime agency to include monitoring, information sharing and coordination of prevention and response.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and thank her for her openness and cooperation in securing commitments which have gained wide consensus. today, it is imperative to talk about small and mediumsized enterprises and entrepreneurship, both for men and women. in fact, despite the great difficulties that smes have been experiencing in recent years, they remain an important source of job creation and a driver of growth in the european economy. women's entrepreneurship should be encouraged as it has a huge potential to be exploited and is a way to increase the employment rate. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of the environment. we also share the recommendations on the need for advice on the available financing and financial management methods, and the importance of access to finance and in particular access to microfinance, with particular reference to the european progress financing programme. finally, i would like to clarify my position on the content of paragraph 46, saying that for legal reasons and for reasons of consistency and rigor, we will vote on this paragraph separately, not being against - on the contrary - the balanced participation of men and women on the boards of directors of large companies and of companies listed on the stock exchange, which is not the case.
madam president, the current crisis is hitting women particularly hard, especially those on the lowest incomes. the increasing unemployment of women and the proliferation of precarious and low-paid work are contributing to the increase of poverty among women and creating the conditions for greater discrimination and exploitation. and it is in this context that many women are thrown into false self-employment, into a type of pseudo-self-employment which only serves to circumvent social protection and deprive these workers of their fundamental rights, on the fundamental basis of reducing labour costs. it is an unacceptable practice that must be combated. it is true that there are women entrepreneurs in micro and small enterprises, who must of course be supported, and we must prevent any discrimination here too, and in this respect we stress the need for measures, some of which have already been mentioned here.
madam president, discrimination against older women is one of the biggest social problems we have and one of the root causes of poverty and social exclusion. these women have often been victims of low wages, unemployment, part-time and precarious work, which is reflected in very low pensions and pensions that put them in a situation of great social fragility and at risk of poverty. in a period of worsening unemployment such as the present one, the situation of women approaching retirement age should be given particular attention. first of all, by not raising the age for access to retirement, by ensuring that women are not discriminated against because of maternity and age. secondly, by valuing women's work, combating wage discrimination and reviewing the process of calculating pensions and pensions to ensure that ageing is done in a dignified way, without humiliation, without discrimination or any form of violence against older women. this also requires affordable and quality public services, particularly in the areas of health, social protection and decent housing. it is these proposals, and some of those in the report, that we think the commission should take into account.
on behalf of the ppe group. other madam president, commissioner, dear colleague, i would first of all like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur for having found this report extremely useful and allowing us to take further steps in the field of mediation. the report provides an overview, a range of solutions adopted by the various member states in the implementation of directive 2008/52/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 may 2008 on mediation in civil and commercial matters. now, we all know the advantages of mediation. on the one hand, it is an extrajudicial means of settling disputes, which contributes to the reduction of the congestion of the courts, to the rationalization of the justice system, while at the same time providing the parties with the possibility of obtaining an amicable solution, which is faster and less costly, less burdensome, of the dispute in which they are involved. it is therefore necessary to reaffirm the objective of article 1 of the directive when it calls for the adoption of measures to encourage the use of alternative dispute resolution methods, and in particular mediation. promoting access to and use of out-of-court means of dispute resolution helps to improve, to simplify, to make our justice more accessible. it is therefore a very important challenge for the european union and for the establishment of the area of freedom, security and justice - i would say for the idea of the rule of law within the european union. and that is why, in this context of crisis, i think it is very important, as the report says, to raise awareness among the public and the judiciary on this subject and to call on the commission and the commissioner to come forward quickly with a legislative proposal on alternative dispute resolution.
madam president, mr miller, commissioner malmström, my starting point is that if we are to have freedom of movement and an area of freedom, security and justice, we need an integrated and uniform management of the external borders, with a high and uniform level of control and surveillance. that is a sine qua non condition. in order to have an integrated border management system, we must have a frontex agency and a key role in it. given the increasing migratory pressures that are bringing new threats and risks, i think it is easy to understand that there was a need to strengthen the role of frontex by giving it more resources and tools to increase its effectiveness. and in the context of the new schengen evaluation system we are discussing, it is also foreseeable that frontex will exercise more powers and therefore have more responsibilities. that said, i think it is only fair to congratulate our colleague simon busuttil on the fantastic work he has done in reaching this agreement. i would like to emphasize five points: firstly, the strengthening of the provisions on fundamental rights, to which several speakers have already referred and which is a notable milestone in this agreement; secondly, the strengthening of effectiveness, with the possibility of sending frontex experts for longer periods of time; thirdly, the creation of border guard teams; fourthly, the processing of personal data, which, as simon busuttil has recalled, is essential for risk analysis, but which must be regulated and have precise conditions, and these precautions are provided for, in particular in terms of data retention and the requirement that such data be depersonalized; and finally the creation of operational means, i.e. that frontex can acquire means and not be directly dependent on the member states. madam president, i think it is fair to say that we hope that now in frontex's action it will live up to the trust that the european institutions are placing in it in terms of human resources and legislative means.
in writing. − this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr hans-peter martin, mep, as communicated by the president of the european parliament on 12 may 2011 and following a letter from the vienna public prosecutor's office sent by the permanent representation of austria to the european union. hans-peter martin is accused by the vienna public prosecutor's office of having violated the austrian law on political parties during the campaign for the 2009 european elections by misusing state funds to pay for private expenses and inflated bills. martin is also accused of misleading the auditors responsible for analysing the use of the funding by presenting fictitious documents. this is behaviour which, if true, does not dignify the exercise of the duties of a member of the european parliament. in this connection, and in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, which recommends the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hans-peter martin, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, the vienna public prosecutor's office requested the waiver of the immunity of hans-peter martin, member of the european parliament, in order to allow the austrian authorities to conduct the necessary investigations and prosecution of hans-peter martin, to order searches of his home or offices, to seize documents and to carry out computer or any other electronic searches that may be necessary, and to initiate criminal proceedings against mr martin on the grounds of misappropriation of party funds, or any other legal penalty that may be attributed to the alleged offences before the competent courts. given that the request for the waiver of mr hans-peter martin's immunity relates to alleged offences relating to the misappropriation of party funds, as provided for in section 2b of the political parties act, we must proceed with the waiver of mr hans-peter martin's immunity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity, in the light of the arguments set out in the report of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that one of the attributes of a common area of freedom, security and justice in the eu is the abolition of internal borders, especially in the schengen area. the external borders of the union, on the other hand, have become a matter of common responsibility and the need for their integrated management has become even more pressing. this report aims at a coordinated approach to the security of the external borders and it is imperative to create an integrated, uniform management ensuring a high level of control and surveillance. it is therefore necessary to adopt and apply common rules and to strengthen cooperation between member states with regard to the security of their external borders. more combined efforts and greater sharing of resources are required. it is in this need for increased coordination and solidarity that frontex plays a key role. the ep has supported the agency unequivocally, notably by significantly increasing the appropriations to support operations, and also calling for improvements in the legislation the agency complies with in order to correct its shortcomings and improve its effectiveness.
in writing. − the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) was established in 2004 and became operational in 2005. the frontex agency shall enhance border security by ensuring coordination of the actions of the member states in the implementation of community measures relating to the management of the external borders. the abolition of internal borders has facilitated the free movement of citizens, which requires a coordinated approach to the security of the external borders, which must remain closed to cross-border crime as well as other illegal activities. it is therefore necessary to adopt and apply common rules and to strengthen cooperation between member states as regards external borders. the report, which i supported, therefore provides for the creation of european border guard teams to be deployed during joint operations, rapid interventions and pilot projects. i also stress the strengthening of frontex's fundamental rights obligations, the establishment of an effective mechanism to monitor respect for these rights in all its activities, the appointment of a fundamental rights officer and the creation of a consultative forum on this matter.
in writing. − the union's external border policy aims to establish an integrated border management system that ensures a high level of control and surveillance, which is essential for the free movement of persons within the union and a fundamental element of the area of freedom, security and justice. it is essential that the role of the agency is strengthened in developing a policy for the gradual introduction of the concept of integrated management of the external borders. after six years of frontex operations, there is a clear need to review its operations. this law gives frontex a renewed mandate with more resources and tools at its disposal.
in writing. - i support the busutill report on frontex because i recognise the role of this agency in the integrated and uniform management of external borders which ensures a high and uniform level of control and surveillance as a sine qua non for a genuine area of freedom, security and justice where the movement of persons is guaranteed. the increase in migratory pressures, which involve new threats and risks, and the enlargement of the schengen area require that its role be strengthened, that it be given more resources and tools, and that its effectiveness be increased. i particularly welcome the strengthening of the provisions on fundamental rights, the increase in effectiveness, with the possibility of sending frontex experts for longer periods of time (at least 6 months), the creation of border guard teams, the processing of personal data for risk analysis, limiting the retention period of data and requiring that they be depersonalised, the acquisition of operational means frontex will be able to acquire means in partnership with the member states in case of an emergency or lack of means, which will give it greater operational flexibility.
in writing. − in a europe that is increasingly striving to free itself from the obstacles that impede movement within its borders, the external borders face the challenge of not turning it into a fortress, while helping to ensure the security of its citizens and to control illegal migration flows. the surveillance and control of the union's external borders is now not only in the interest and competence of the border states but of all the countries that make up the union. in this joint effort, the frontex agency plays a key role in coordinating and assisting the states. the commission proposal, with the adaptations made to it by the parliamentary committee, aims to clarify the mandate of frontex and to give it new powers within its mandate. i hope that the new legislative framework will allow the agency not only to continue its important mission but also to improve its performance in respect of the sovereignty of the member states and human rights.
in writing. − this report is based on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). on 14 june 1985 the schengen agreement was signed, which, by abolishing checks at the internal borders of the signatory countries and creating a common area, made possible the free movement of people (half a billion) and goods throughout the european union. the control of the eu's external borders has become a matter of common concern and requires integrated management. this freedom of movement, while being a positive factor for citizens of good faith, is also an opportunity for people who are not welcome in these states, such as refugees, terrorists, criminals, fugitives from justice, stateless persons, etc., to enter. i welcome and vote in favour of this report which aims to strengthen the agency, making it more efficient, increasing its visibility (by giving the name of european border guards to officials), binding member states to compliance with this regulation and subjecting it to more effective control by this parliament.
in writing. the report introduces changes to the management of the eu's external borders, reinforcing border control, including through the creation of european border guard teams. it also provides for the obligation for member states to contribute staff and material resources. as we know, especially in the schengen area, the external borders of the european union have become a matter of common responsibility. the commission and the european parliament therefore find the measures proposed in this report justified by the need for integrated and uniform management of the system, ensuring a high level of control and supervision. these are further steps towards consolidating a repressive immigration policy, with increased resources and more power for frontex. the eu's policy in this area, especially after the adoption of the so-called return directive or shame directive , criminalizes immigrants and their families, dismissing them as generally either fleeing wars that the european union itself has been fueling, as in the recent and shameful case of libya, or simply seeking better living conditions. in line with our opposition to this repressive, imperialist and federalist vision of the european union, we voted against this report.
in writing. − this report introduces changes to the management of the eu's external borders by strengthening their control, including through the creation of european border guard teams. it also provides for the obligation for member states to contribute staff and material resources. as we know, especially in the schengen area, the external borders of the union have become a matter of common responsibility. the commission and the european parliament therefore find the measures proposed in this report justified by the need for integrated and uniform management of the system, ensuring a high level of control and supervision. we believe that these amendments are intended to give frontex more power to make immigration policy more difficult by means of more repressive measures. it is a fact that the european union's policy in this area, especially after the directive on return and shame, criminalises immigrants and their families, considering that they are generally either fleeing the wars that the european union itself is fuelling or simply seeking better living conditions. we voted against this because we disagree with this repressive, imperialist and federalist vision of the european union.
in writing. − the frontex agency coordinates operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management; supports member states in the training of national border guards, including the definition of common training standards; carries out risk analyses; monitors the development of relevant research on external border control and surveillance; supports member states in circumstances requiring enhanced operational and technical assistance at the external borders and provides member states with the necessary support in the framework of the organisation of joint return operations. the frontex agency shall enhance border security by ensuring coordination of the actions of the member states in the implementation of community measures relating to the management of the external borders. according to the revised regulation, frontex should promote solidarity between member states, particularly those that are subject to disproportionate specific pressures. eu countries, which have been contributing on a voluntary basis with staff and technical equipment to frontex, are now obliged to do so. the agency should, however, also be provided with the means to purchase or lease its own equipment. the review of the mandate of frontex aims to improve the functioning of the agency in the light of the experience gained since its creation in 2004.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2007/2004 establishing a european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). the abolition of internal borders, especially in the schengen area, the objective of a common area of freedom, security and justice of the eu, is counterbalanced by the fact that the external borders of the union are now a matter of common responsibility. in this context, it is imperative to strengthen its integrated management. it is indeed necessary to protect the external borders by keeping them closed to cross-border crime and other illegal activities. in this context, there is a need to strengthen and reformulate the powers of frontex. the amendments include strengthening the provisions on fundamental human rights; the creation of an eu border guard system; support for member states facing difficulties in their asylum systems; new powers in the implementation of voluntary repatriation operations; and the extension of the democratic control of the agency by giving the ep a greater role in monitoring the work of the agency, including its arrangements for working with third countries.
in writing. − the frontex agency, set up in 2004, is responsible for managing cooperation between the various member states on external borders. this is an area which, in view of the schengen area, requires very close cooperation, since the borders are twofold: while they delimit the territorial space of a state, they are also the boundary demarcation of a common space with 42 672 km of external borders, where about half a billion people move freely. it is with this fundamental idea in mind, that joint action by the states is necessary, that the amendment of the regulation establishing the frontex agency should be envisaged: the aim is to provide it with effective means of action to enable it to provide timely assistance to those states which need support as the first gateway to the european union. finally, it is also justified to strengthen relations between the frontex agency and other community agencies with common objectives, with a view to better rationalisation of resources and efficiency in action.
in writing. - the events on the island of lampedusa and the consequent closure of the borders by the french state have made it clear that frontex needs to be reformulated. integrated management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the eu member states is a guarantee of an area of freedom, security and justice for european citizens. the proposals submitted are intended to strengthen the role of frontex by giving it greater autonomy vis-à-vis the member states in terms of the human resources and instruments to be used. the creation of a european reserve guard system and the increase in the budget will provide the means to acquire their own equipment and to act in situations of immediate assistance, where the time limits for action and consent have also been reduced. another important element is the reinforced dimension of respect for human rights, through the creation of a consultative forum, and the new power in terms of processing of personal data, to combat cross-border crime and illegal migration. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is urgent to equip the eu with a migration policy, based on the principle of solidarity and responsibility and respecting international and community law, with particular attention to the most vulnerable people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items, which aims to oblige the commission and the member states to set up a secure system for the collection, transmission and storage of notifications and to oblige the commission to inform the european parliament of the operation of the system. i think it is important that the commission be required to report on the implementation and application of the regulation and to provide a full assessment of its impact.
in writing. − dual-use products and technologies are those which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. the community export control system is governed by a regulation, which contains an annex on controlled dual-use items. the current proposal introduces several new community general export authorisations designed to level the playing field for eu exporters and to facilitate exports in specific risk situations. i fully support the agreement reached in the tripartite consultation as a balanced document serving the interests of exporters while maintaining strong guarantees of transparency in the sensitive sector of dual use and technologies.
in writing. - dual-use products, goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, such as chemicals which can be used for fertilisers or to prepare bombs, computer technology but used to guide missiles, are today a highly sensitive matter. the control of exports of dual-use items and technologies at european level aims to ensure compliance with the international commitments of the eu and its member states on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. these include the ngs (nuclear suppliers group) against the proliferation of nuclear products and technologies or the australia group against the proliferation of chemical and biological products and technologies. this extremely important control, which makes it possible to prevent the proliferation of weapons through preventive measures enshrined in regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may 2009, effectively excludes any possibility of real action by the ep. i support this report because i think that the list of annex i products needs to be updated, but i would stress that in the context of future amendments to the regulation, parliament should have a greater say and a more prominent role in this matter.
in writing. − dual-use goods are all products, software and technology that can be used for civil or military purposes. the type of goods in question justifies particular care and attention to the way in which they are moved and used, as well as strict compliance with the international conventions applicable to them and the continuous updating of the list of products falling within that classification. in view of the recent changes in international export control regimes, the proposal in question aims precisely to update the list of dual-use items in accordance with regulation (ec) no 428/2009, which is why it deserves my support.
in writing. the report, drawn up by vital moreira, mep, proposes an amendment to council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 which established a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items. the export of dual-use items (listed in annex i) under the above regulation is subject to international control regimes such as the australia group (ag), the nuclear suppliers group (nsg), the missile technology control regime (mtcr) and the wassenaar arrangement (aw). the european parliament's role in this area has been very limited, so i am voting in favour of this report which recommends adopting the commission's proposal at first reading, as it meets the requirements of the lisbon treaty, requires the establishment of a secure system for the collection, transmission and storage of notifications by the commission and the member states, and requires parliament to be kept informed of the operation of the system - which is not the case at present - by means of the annual report to be presented by the dual-use coordination group.
in writing. − export controls on dual-use goods have been subject to measures at eu level. regulation (ec) no 428/2009 is the main community instrument for the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use items. international export control regimes are responsible for taking decisions that amend or update their control lists. these decisions are taken without the involvement of national parliaments, the ep or the eu. this regulation aims to change this situation by creating a common list of dual-use goods and technologies in the eu. the commission and the member states are obliged to inform the ep of any changes to this list. this ensures that commitments previously made by eu member states under international schemes are applied in a uniform and coordinated way across the eu. we believe that the member states should have the central role in drawing up the checklists - a view which conflicts with the centralisation of powers in the commission in this area, in particular through the dual-use coordination group, chaired by the commission, which decides which countries can trade dual-use goods with.
in writing. − export controls on dual-use goods have been subject to measures at eu level. regulation (ec) no 428/2009 is the main community instrument for the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use items. international export control regimes are responsible for taking decisions to amend or update their control lists, and these decisions are taken without the involvement of national parliaments, the ep and the european union. the amendment of annex i to that regulation included a common list of dual-use items and technologies. this ensures that commitments previously made by eu member states under international regimes are applied in a uniform and coordinated way across the eu. however, although we believe that greater democratic control and transparency are needed, we believe that it should be up to each member state to decide on its own checklists, and we therefore do not agree that the dual-use coordination group, chaired by the commission, should decide which countries can be traded with dual-use items, thus removing this competence from the member states.
in writing. − the report amending council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishes a community regime for the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use items. the commission and the member states now have a secure system for collecting, transmitting and storing notifications which reinforces compliance of exports of civilian goods, but with the risk of possible military use. until now, this registration has been optional and has largely depended on consensus decisions in international export control regimes such as the australian group (ag) for chemical and biological products, the nuclear suppliers group (nsg) for civil nuclear products, the missile technology control regime (mtcr) and the wassenaar arrangement (wa) for conventional weapons, dual-use goods and technologies.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon clarifies the eu's competences in the field of international trade, thus providing a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in this area, the european parliament's competences and responsibilities in the eu's institutional framework for decision-making. the community's dual-use regime should be organised in a more transparent and democratic way. the full participation of the european parliament, through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission under the new framework agreement, will be crucial to achieving this objective.
in writing. - in the processes of control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use goods, the ep currently has no real possibility of acting as an institution with a power of amendment. this should be the case, given the powers of the ep after the lisbon treaty and as a co-legislating body. in the light of future changes, it is necessary to ensure that the eu speaks with one voice and strong parliamentary support on all issues falling within the eu's exclusive competence. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the powers of the ep, which are derived from the treaty of lisbon, should be gradually reflected in all community legislation. on the basis of this principle, i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a more transparent and democratic decision-making process involving the ep.
in writing. − the report amending council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishes a community regime for the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use items. the commission and the member states now have a secure system for collecting, transmitting and storing notifications which reinforces compliance of exports of civilian goods, but with the risk of possible military use. until now, this registration has been optional and has largely depended on consensus decisions in international export control regimes such as the australian group (ag) for chemical and biological products, the nuclear suppliers group (nsg) for civil nuclear products, the missile technology control regime (mtcr) and the wassenaar arrangement (wa) for conventional weapons, dual-use goods and technologies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the repeal of certain legal acts which have become obsolete because they have ceased to have effect over the last few decades, but which are still technically in force. for example, several measures associated with the accession of new member states provided for transitional measures to be applied immediately after their accession, but have since become obsolete.
in writing. - the obsolescence of all or part of certain legislative instruments is inevitable in any legal order. the transitional nature of certain acts, the verification of amending or rescission conditions, the expiry of programmes or the adoption of new legislation, among other things, may contribute to this. it is for the legislator to identify them and, where justified, to repeal them in order to facilitate the interpretation and application of the rules actually in force. the concrete irrelevance of obsolete acts may nevertheless cause unnecessary difficulties of interpretation and impede the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. as a lawyer by profession, i particularly understand the need for this repeal.
in writing. − the european union (eu) has changed its name over the course of its almost six decades of existence: european economic community (eec), european community (ec) and eu. as the name has changed, so too have many of the regulations and guidelines adopted become outdated, especially in view of the rapid scientific and technological developments of the last few decades. the report, drawn up by mr paolo de castro, mep, presents a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation repealing certain council acts in the field of the common agricultural policy which are considered to be obsolete (temporary acts which have lost their effects, transitional measures following the accession of new member states, linguistic and content errors, etc.). i therefore welcome this proposal which aims to clean up some outdated european standards and is in line with the interinstitutional agreement 2003c321/1 on better law-making.
in writing. - this report deals with the repeal of certain legal acts which have become obsolete as a result of regulations adopted over the last few decades which have ceased to have effect because of their temporary nature or because their content is contained in subsequent acts. several regulations at the cap level, such as community financing, premium schemes, restrictions and suspensions of aid, the establishment of the common agricultural policy, community compensation, common intervention prices, direct support measures for producers' incomes, and the improvement of community production, are now being repealed. having noted the direct implications that many of these now obsolete regulations have had in our country, it is necessary to recall that a large part of them has followed over time the deterioration of the agricultural sector in portugal, the accentuation of the country's agri-food production deficits and the increase in external dependence. this has created more difficulties for small and mediumsized farmers, without the necessary conditions for their adaptation, development and modernisation having been created. at a time when we are also experiencing a profound crisis in the rural world, it is regrettable that in some cases the commission has not acted otherwise, in particular by extending some regulations which are beneficial and necessary for the survival of production in some countries, such as portugal, in particular small and mediumsized farming, contrary to the general framework described.
in writing. - this is the repeal of certain legal acts, which have become obsolete as a result of regulations adopted over the last few decades, which have ceased to have effect because of their temporary nature or because their content is contained in subsequent acts. several regulations at the cap level, such as community financing, premium schemes, restrictions and suspensions of aid, the establishment of the common agricultural policy, community compensation, common intervention prices, direct support measures for producers' incomes, and the improvement of community production, are now being repealed. having noted the direct implications that many of these now obsolete regulations have had in our country, it is necessary to recall that a large part of them has accompanied, over time, the deterioration of the agricultural sector in portugal, the accentuation of the country's agri-food production deficits and the increase in external dependence. in many cases they have served to create more difficulties for small and mediumsized farmers, without the necessary conditions having been created for their adaptation, development and modernisation. at a time when we are going through a profound crisis, also in the rural world, it is regrettable that in some cases the commission has not acted differently, particularly in extending some regulations which are beneficial and necessary for the survival of production in some countries, such as portugal, especially for small and mediumsized farming.
in writing. − transparency of eu legislation is essential for greater democracy and equal access for all citizens. in order to eliminate legal maze and increase the clarity and security of european legislation, obsolete regulations should be repealed. the report repeals regulations relating to the common agricultural policy which were still formally in force, although they had become obsolete and no longer had any effect, in particular because they were temporary measures, their content had been taken up in subsequent acts or new measures had been introduced. it is absolutely necessary to remove from existing legislation those acts which no longer have any real effect, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - simplification of existing legislation is always welcome. i therefore support this commission proposal to repeal a number of legal acts, which has been submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure. this proposal is part of the european union's commitment to improve its own legislative policy and to simplify existing legislation with a view to creating greater clarity in the legislative process in the field of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - this report aims at the repeal of a number of obsolete legal acts, with the aim of improving the quality and simplification of existing legislation, creating a better and clearer legislative environment. i voted in favour of this report, given that the linguistic jurists of the council and the european parliament unanimously approved these amendments, proposing that all the amendments be voted on together in a single vote.
in writing. − greater transparency of eu legislation is an essential element of the better regulation strategy that the community institutions are putting into practice, and in this context it is necessary to repeal acts that have ceased to produce real effects. this is the aim of the present proposal, which aims to repeal a number of regulations relating to the common agricultural policy which have become obsolete, although formally still in force.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the present repeal of certain obsolete council acts in the field of the union's common commercial policy, adopted over the last few decades, which, although they have exhausted all their effects, remain technically in force. those acts have become obsolete because they are temporary, because their content has been embodied in successive acts, or because they result from an international agreement which has subsequently been replaced by another agreement, or because they are intended to be a provisional instrument for the period prior to the entry into force of an international agreement which has in the meantime been terminated. the main objective of such repeals of certain legal acts is to improve the quality of legislation and to simplify existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses.
in writing. - the european union - like several member states including my own - has legislated too much, which does not always mean that it has legislated well. this is now unanimously accepted by all the institutions involved in the legislative process and has even justified an interinstitutional agreement to promote the adoption of better legislation. despite these efforts, it is clear that some of the legislative acts adopted are now obsolete - as are some of the acts on the common commercial policy - and it is fully justified to remove them from the legal order in the interests of simplification and clarity.
in writing. - the european union, over its almost six decades of existence, has changed its name: european economic community (eec), european community (ec) and eu. as the name has changed, so too have many of the regulations and guidelines adopted become outdated, especially in view of the rapid scientific and technological developments of the last few decades. this report, drawn up by vital moreira, mep, presents a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing certain council acts deemed to be obsolete (temporary acts which have ceased to have effect, content incorporated in successive acts or resulting from international agreements which have been repealed, instruments of provisional application, measures relating to the accession of new member states, etc.). i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal, which aims to clear up some outdated legislation and which runs counter to the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which, in the name of transparency and the certainty of union law, recommends its repeal in the interests of greater clarity and legal certainty for the citizens and institutions of the union.
in writing. - simplification of existing legislation is always welcome, which is why i support this commission proposal to repeal a number of legal acts, which has been submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure. this proposal is part of the european union's commitment to a legislative policy to improve and simplify existing legislation with a view to creating greater clarity in the legislative process in the area of enterprises.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to repeal a number of obsolete legal acts, with the aim of improving and simplifying existing legislation, creating a better and clearer legislative environment for businesses. indeed, certain legal acts of the union's common commercial policy, which were adopted over the last decades, have exhausted all their effects but remain technically in force. these acts have become obsolete because of their temporary nature, because their content has been embodied in successive acts, or because they result from an international agreement which has subsequently been replaced by another agreement, or simply because they are a provisional instrument for the period prior to the entry into force of an international agreement which has in the meantime been terminated. in addition, a number of measures in the context of the accession of new member states have become obsolete as a result of that same enlargement. on the basis of the principles enshrined in the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which i also voted in favour of, i approve this report, which calls for the repeal of acts that are no longer applied in order to improve the transparency and certainty of union law.
in writing. − greater transparency of eu legislation is an essential element of the better regulation strategy that the community institutions are putting into practice, and in this context it is necessary to repeal acts that have ceased to produce real effects. this is the aim of the present proposal, which aims to repeal a number of regulations relating to the common commercial policy which have become obsolete, although formally still in force.
in writing. - i voted in favour of repealing regulation (eec) no 429/73 and regulation (ec) no 215/2000, which have become obsolete because decision no 1/95 of the ec-turkey association council of 22 december 1995 on the implementation of the final phase of the customs union has abolished customs duties on goods originating in turkey. the european parliament, the council and the commission have established in their interinstitutional agreement on better law-making that community law should be updated and condensed by repealing acts which are no longer applicable. therefore, acts which are no longer relevant should be removed from the community acquis in order to improve transparency and to provide greater legal clarity and certainty for the citizens and institutions of the union.
in writing. - like other legislative instruments, the regulations in question on processed agricultural products have also become obsolete and their repeal is therefore justified. in the first case, the union's trade relations with turkey have developed to such an extent that the rules contained in that legal instrument have lost their meaning. the second agreement provided for concessions in the form of community tariff quotas for 1995 and naturally expired.
in writing. - the european commission, considering the obsolescence of many regulations and guidelines adopted in recent years and, in particular, taking into account the rapid scientific and technological developments of the last few decades, has decided to repeal a number of legal acts, such as the provisions on customs duties for goods originating in turkey. the report, drawn up by mr vital moreira, mep, presents a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation repealing council regulation (eec) no 429/73 laying down special provisions applicable to imports into the community of certain goods originating in turkey and covered by regulation (eec) no 1059/69 and council regulation (ec) no 215/2000 extending for 2000 the measures provided for in regulation (ec) no 1416/95 establishing certain concessions in the form of community tariff quotas for certain processed agricultural products. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal, which aims to clean up some obsolete legislation and which goes against the interinstitutional agreement entitled 'better lawmaking', which, in the name of transparency and the certainty of union law, recommends its repeal in the interests of greater clarity and legal certainty for the citizens and institutions of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, supporting the commission's proposal to repeal a number of legal acts as submitted to the european parliament and the council under the ordinary legislative procedure. the proposal is driven by the european union's political commitment to simplify and improve the quality of existing legislation with a view to creating a better and clearer legislative environment for the implementation of the final phase of the customs union which has eliminated customs duties for goods originating in turkey.
in writing. - this report has the same aims as report a-0257/2011, which i agreed with. the aim is to repeal acts that are no longer relevant in order to improve the transparency and legal certainty of the union. the commission does not have the power, within its sphere of competence, to declare obsolete acts adopted by the council or by the european parliament and the council. therefore, in the interest of legal certainty, the repeal of legal acts should be authorised by the union legislator. in this sense, and as the proposed amendments seek to establish greater legal clarity and certainty for the citizens and institutions of the union, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − greater transparency of eu legislation is an essential element of the better regulation strategy that the community institutions are putting into practice, and in this context it is necessary to repeal acts that have ceased to produce real effects. this is the aim of this proposal, which aims to repeal council regulation (eec) no 429/73 laying down special provisions applicable to imports into the community of certain goods originating in turkey covered by regulation (eec) no 1059/69 and council regulation (ec) no 215/2000 extending for 2000 the measures provided for in regulation (ec) no 1416/95 establishing certain concessions in the form of community tariff quotas for 1995 for certain processed agricultural products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which is a pure and simple codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. however, approval of public and private projects which may have a significant impact on the environment should only be granted after an assessment of the significant effects which these projects may have on the environment. this assessment must be made on the basis of appropriate information provided by the developer and, where appropriate, supplemented by the authorities and the public concerned by the project.
in writing. − green growth without compromising competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent environmental policy, which requires a uniform assessment of the environmental impact of both public and private projects. i therefore vote in favour of the commission's proposal for the codification of legislation on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment.
in writing. - at its meeting on 14 and 15 december, the european parliament adopted the report by mr sajjad karim, following a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (consolidated text). the european commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying union legislation in order to make it more readable and accessible to citizens, thus giving them greater possibilities to use the specific rights conferred on them. in order to make administrative procedures more efficient, the commission decided in april 1987 to codify all acts at the latest after ten amendments, stressing that this was a minimum requirement and that the departments should endeavour to codify the texts for which they are responsible, if possible, at even shorter intervals. since the proposal is simply a codification of council directive 85/337/eec of 27 june 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, i am voting in favour of this proposal, knowing that it will result in a significant improvement in administrative procedures.
in writing. - the purpose of this report is to codify the existing texts, as agreed by the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, without any substantial change to the existing texts, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the consultative working party, composed of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, met on 19 april and 18 may 2011 to consider the proposal in this report. after examining the text, the consultative group was unanimous in finding that the proposal was in fact a mere codification without any change in the content of the acts which it covers. on the basis of that opinion, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - given that the directive aims at codifying previous diplomas which are scattered (with advantages in terms of accessibility and familiarity with the legislation), without any changes being made in the material aspects, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - article 191 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the union's policy on the environment shall aim at achieving a high level of protection and that its action shall be based on the principles of precaution and preventive action. i am voting in favour of this proposal for a directive because i agree with the harmonization of the general principles for the evaluation of public and private projects in the field of the environment. i understand that projects can only be officially approved by the competent authorities after a prior assessment of their real effects. member states should also be free to set thresholds and criteria to exclude from the assessment projects which are not significant in terms of their environmental impact. in accordance with article 6 of the aarhus convention, i consider it extremely positive that citizens are involved in the decision-making process on projects with an environmental impact, increasing the involvement of local communities and their consequent accountability. however, it is important to establish rules and procedures for their active participation, and it is also important to define an environmental culture that reconciles the development of the regions with the protection of nature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the public regulated service (prs) provided by the global satellite navigation system resulting from the galileo programme, because i consider that prs is one of the essential services provided by galileo which ensures and guarantees security even in severe crisis situations. the european satellite navigation programme galileo consists of five services in total: the open service, the commercial service, the security service, the search and rescue service and the regulated public service. this proposal concerns the regulated public service (prs), the use of which is reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security and emergency services. i think it is important to establish common rules for the use, management and control of access to the prs. the mechanism proposed in this report, which is designed to ensure safety, provides the necessary harmony between, on the one hand, the definition of common minimum standards and the monitoring of compliance with the standards at eu level and, on the other hand, the decentralisation of the supervisory task of the member states.
in writing. − the galileo programme is of strategic importance for the independence of the union in terms of satellite navigation and location and dating services and will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the use and management of the regulated public service prs is a common responsibility of the member states in order to protect the security of the union and their own security. consequently, access to the prs should be strictly restricted to certain categories of users subject to permanent monitoring.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to define the modalities under which states, the council, the commission, union agencies and international organisations can have access to the public regulated service (prs) provided by the global navigation satellite system (gnss) resulting from the galileo programme. the prs is a reserved service, to which the general public will not have access and whose use must be controlled for security reasons. the security objectives linked to the use of the prs are directly linked to the security of the union and its member states and have an impact on the union's external policy. it is therefore essential to supervise users by means such as the establishment of an authorization procedure, the use of cryptographic keys, the approval of receivers, etc. in addition, it is a service with some applications which may be very sensitive at political and strategic level. the prs requires the precise definition of the access arrangements in a legislative text, which is exactly what this proposal does.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr norbert glante, mep, is concerned with a proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the modalities of access to the public regulated service (prs) provided by the global satellite radio navigation system resulting from the galileo programme. among the services provided by the european satellite navigation programme galileo is the public regulated service (prs). it is a service similar to traditional gps but with a tenfold level of accuracy. this service is available to the member states, the council, the commission and, under certain conditions, eu agencies, international organisations and third states. the commission proposal under consideration provides a detailed regulatory framework for access to the prs, management and user control, taking into account the need to ensure security in its operation for political and strategic reasons. given the specific nature of this service, i agree with the rapporteur's position that it is necessary to create a mechanism - a responsible prs authority - to prevent the breach of safety standards, i am voting in favour of this report and i am voting for it to be another instrument at the service of the european people and to contribute to improving their quality of life.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's maritime policy. this proposal concerns the regulated public service (prs), the use of which is reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications (such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security, emergency services). the commission proposal introduces a detailed regulatory framework for the modalities of access to the prs and the management and control of users in order to ensure the security of the system and the protection of information. however, the european parliament has introduced in this report a number of amendments which raise many doubts and even serious concerns, particularly when they try to provide the data obtained by galileo to the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and to his external missions. moreover, these provisions are even in contradiction with the repeated assertion that the system is intended exclusively for civil applications. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - as stated in the explanatory memorandum of the report: the european satellite navigation programme galileo will offer a total of five services: the open service, the commercial service, the security service, the search and rescue service and the regulated public service. this proposal concerns the regulated public service (prs), the use of which is reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications (such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security, emergency services). these applications require a high degree of accuracy and reliability, which is why the prs uses strong, encoded signals. but the commission proposal introduces a detailed regulatory framework for the modalities of access to the prs and the management and control of users in order to ensure the security of the system and the protection of information. the ep has, however, introduced some amendments to the report which has been voted on, which raise many doubts and even serious concerns, particularly when they try to provide the data obtained by galileo to the high authority for foreign and security policy and its external missions. that is why we abstained.
in writing. − this report is about the european satellite navigation programme galileo which will offer a total of five services: the open service, the commercial service, the security service, the search and rescue service and the regulated public service. the proposal concerns the regulated public service (prs), the use of which is reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications (such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security and emergency services). these applications require a high degree of accuracy and reliability, which is why the prs uses strong, encoded signals. the commission proposal establishes a regulatory framework which enables the prs participants (the member states, on an optional basis, the council and the commission, and under certain conditions, european union agencies, third countries and international organisations) to duly authorise their users to own or use a prs receiver. i decided to abstain because there are some somewhat controversial proposals, particularly with regard to the information obtained by galileo which may be provided to the high authority for foreign and security policy.
in writing. − the european satellite navigation programme galileo will offer a total of five services: the open service, the commercial service, the security service, the search and rescue service and the regulated public service. this proposal concerns the regulated public service (prs), the use of which is reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications (such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security and emergency services). this proposal introduces a detailed regulatory framework for the modalities of access to the prs and the management and control of users in order to ensure the security of the system and the protection of information. since certain applications of the service may be politically and strategically sensitive, and in order to ensure the high level of security required, it is important to act prudently in the development of this regulatory framework, in particular by introducing a common and harmonised process for user authorisation by participants. while the prs is expected to become operational in 2014, it is important to establish the necessary legal framework in advance so that member states and other actors have sufficient time to put in place the different control mechanisms and to comply with the required security standards.
in writing. − this report is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the modalities of access to the regulated public service provided by the global satellite radio navigation system resulting from the galileo programme. access to the regulated public service is reserved exclusively for users authorised by governments for sensitive applications (such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security and emergency services). these applications require a high degree of accuracy and reliability, which is why the regulated public service uses strong and coded signals. the commission shall introduce a detailed regulatory framework for the modalities of access to the regulated public service and the management and control of users in order to ensure system security and information protection. the regulated public service is one of the essential services offered by galileo, which will be able to ensure continuity of service and ensure safety even in severe crisis situations. it is important to establish common rules for the use, management and control of access to the regulated public service. the report concludes that the proposed mechanism ensures the security of the system, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − under the european satellite navigation programme galileo, the public regulated service (prs) will be made available for use by government-authorised entities for sensitive applications such as critical infrastructure, transport, internal and external security and emergency services. precisely because these are potentially politically and strategically sensitive applications and because breaches of security in the use of this service can have serious repercussions, it is important to establish common rules for the use, management and access control of the prs. that is the aim of the commission's present proposal, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − the galileo programme, which plays a key role in the eu's independence from other satellite navigation systems, offers the possibility of five services. this report covers the regulated public service (rps) which is intended for specific applications (such as internal and external security, emergency services, critical infrastructure) for users authorised by member state governments. it provides a very detailed legal framework for the modalities of access to the rds and the management of users to ensure the security of the system and information. this regulation, which will only enter into force in 2014, lays down common minimum standards and security issues to be followed by the participants in the rdp, which may be, in addition to the member states, the council, the commission and, in particular cases, following international agreements, european agencies, third countries and international organisations. i would stress that it is important to define clearly the rules to be used in access and in the event of non-compliance, since the information from the rdp is naturally a matter of policy and strategy for the countries and can be used in emergency situations. the inclusion of the directive on data protection and privacy is another important point to highlight.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement on tropical forests, which, according to oecd assessments, has been destroying annually an area of originally forested land corresponding to the area of greece, indisputably affecting irreplaceable biodiversity, threatening it with extinction and aggravating the risk of global warming. recalling that, despite the first tropical timber agreement being concluded more than 20 years ago, illegal logging and over-exploitation (in the amazon, the congo basin, south-east asia and russia) are still widely practiced,
in writing. − for many centuries, tropical timber has been the object of the unbridled greed of those who seek to enrich themselves through the trafficking of this type of material, taking advantage of its quality and exoticism, without taking care to ensure the sustainability of the forest species they plunder. while biodiversity has been greatly reduced, the people of the countries from which these rare woods originate receive nothing from their trade and often see their livelihoods jeopardized by the activities of those who profit illegally from this trade. the european union could not ignore this problem and concluded the relevant international agreement in good time. i hope that you will persist in this global effort to put an end to the over-exploitation and illegal logging of these types of wood.
in writing. − this report, drawn up by vital moreira, mep, includes a recommendation on the 2006 international tropical timber agreement, taking into account the council decision on its signature on behalf of the european union. the oecd data show that the annual destruction of tropical forest areas is equivalent to the area of greece, which poses a threat to biodiversity and aggravates the risk of global warming. this has been the subject of discussion at various international meetings, leading to the signing of agreements and the creation of international bodies that try to implement a credible licensing system and prevent the illegal felling of trees, often centuries old, such as the international tropical timber organisation (itto). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − the delay in the adoption of this agreement is due to its non-approval in 2008 by the parliament, which now gives its approval in 2011 to accession to an international agreement dated 2006. this agreement was reached within the framework of the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) and is intended to replace an earlier 1994 agreement (which remains in force until the entry into force of the 2006 agreement). we stress that all eu member states have expressed their intention to sign the 2006 agreement and to contribute appropriately to its implementation. the agreement aims to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests by creating a framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy-making among all members with regard to all relevant aspects of the global timber economy. legitimate doubts are raised as to the compatibility of sustainable management with the promotion of the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber, also mentioned in the agreement. for this reason, we share the view that the mid-term review of the current text should be used to put the protection of tropical forests and the restoration of degraded forest areas at its core.
in writing. - although much delayed, this agreement was finally approved. the delay in the approval of this agreement is due to the non-approval of this agreement in 2008 by the european parliament, which now gives its approval in 2011 to the accession to an international agreement dated 2006. this agreement was reached within the framework of the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) and is intended to replace an earlier 1994 agreement (which remains in force until the entry into force of the 2006 agreement). we stress that all eu member states have expressed their intention to sign the 2006 agreement and to contribute appropriately to its implementation. the agreement aims to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber-producing forests by creating a framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy-making among all members with regard to all relevant aspects of the global timber economy. naturally, doubts may arise as to the compatibility of sustainable management with the promotion of the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber, also mentioned in the agreement. for this reason, we share the view that the mid-term review of the current text should be used to give greater attention to the protection of tropical forests and the restoration of degraded forest areas.
in writing. − deforestation and forest degradation are the main causes of biodiversity loss. in turn, illegal logging is the main driver of deforestation, accounting for 20% to 40% of the world's industrial timber production. tropical timber is the most penalized for this type of activity and, as regards penalties, eu member states should lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this regulation and take all necessary measures to ensure their application. the penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and may take the form of fines proportionate to the environmental damage, the value of the timber and timber products concerned and the fiscal and economic losses resulting from the infringement, confiscation of the timber and timber products concerned or immediate suspension of the authorisation to carry out trading activities.
in writing. - according to oecd estimates, an area of forest equivalent to the size of greece is being destroyed annually, placing the irreplaceable biodiversity at risk of extinction and increasing the risk of global warming. although the first tropical timber agreement was concluded more than 20 years ago, illegal logging and over-exploitation continue to be widespread. almost half of all slaughter activities in regions such as the amazon, the congo basin, southeast asia and russia are illegal. the council and the commission endorse the international tropical timber organisation (itto), established by the 1983 international agreement, which they consider to be the answer to the most pressing issues facing the timber industry. the iatm will continue its work on issues such as deforestation and illegal logging, but it appears possible to make greater efforts to strengthen enforcement of forest law, as demonstrated by the additional measures adopted by the union. in this context, i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european union of the 2006 international tropical timber agreement.
in writing. − every year, an area of forest equivalent to the area of greece is destroyed worldwide, posing a major threat to biodiversity, exacerbating global warming and accentuating social inequalities on the planet. this agreement replaces the 1994 agreement and allows for a credible licensing system, ensuring that only legal timber producers have access to the market. this and other measures in the agreement and other decisions of the european institutions are aimed at preventing the excessive exploitation and illegal logging which continue to be widely practised and which constitute a serious environmental and social problem. for these reasons i voted in favour of the recommendation. i cannot, however, fail to stress the importance of further measures for a truly sustainable management of forests, necessarily including fairer trade rules and trade relations.
in writing. − the 2006 international tropical timber agreement introduces a licensing system to condition market access to legally produced products only. it introduces a set of measures that meet the purpose of the joint action, recalling regulation (eu) no 995/2010 of the european parliament and of the council adopted on 20 october 2010. the protection of tropical forests is actually part of the wider problem of forest protection to which the eu is committed. this is another step towards combating illegal logging, which according to oecd figures has destroyed an area the size of greece every year.
in writing. - the volume of trade between the european union and switzerland and the particular prominence of the geographical indications and designations of origin of certain agricultural products and foodstuffs of both parties are such as to give rise to legitimate concerns as to the possibility that these may be used illegitimately and fraudulently by those who are not entitled to them. the trivialization of its use would diminish its distinctive potential and tend to mislead consumers as to the origin and properties of the products they buy. the mutual desire to strengthen the protection of these designations and to ensure that their exclusivity is respected is therefore fully understandable.
in writing. - this recommendation concerns the agreement between the european union and switzerland on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs. trade between eu member states and switzerland is very important, with switzerland being the eu's fourth largest trading partner, exporting €6.3 billion worth of agricultural products to the eu each year. several agreements have been signed with the swiss authorities on bilateral trade relations. the most recent, dated december 2008 (com ((2008) 0509), on the promotion of agricultural products, was amended in 2009 and a new annex on protected geographical indications and designations of origin is now intended to be included. considering that this is another step forward in the quality of service provided to consumers in terms of the right to information and an advantage for eu exporters of key agricultural products such as meat and dairy products, who will now see an increased degree of protection of their designations of origin and geographical indications, i not only vote in favour of this recommendation, but i also welcome this step forward in the bilateral trade relations between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. - switzerland is the european union's fourth largest trading partner and, considering the value of exports and imports of agricultural products between the eu and switzerland, this agreement is very important. in 2010, the eu exported €6.3 billion worth of agricultural products to switzerland, making it the third largest export market for eu agricultural products. it is therefore essential that the european union continuously works with the swiss authorities to improve the conditions and terms of bilateral trade relations. the agreement on agriculture was concluded in 1999 and entered into force on 1 june 2002. however, it has not led to genuine free trade in agricultural products, but only to partial liberalisation in some sectors of agriculture. however, with this new addition to the agreement, eu exporters of essential agricultural products such as meat and dairy products will now benefit from a higher level of protection for their designations of origin and geographical indications in one of our largest and closest markets, reflecting their expertise and a high level of food quality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs, amending the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products (16199/2010), as i believe that eu quality products should enjoy a high level of protection, in particular through the protection of trademark and origin rights, via designations of origin and geographical indications. this protection must be an eu priority, as the costs for products with these quality labels are enormous and represent a financial burden for producers.
in writing. the importance of the agreement between the european union and the swiss confederation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs is to be understood in the light of bilateral trade relations between the two communities. switzerland is in fact the eu's fourth largest trading partner and represents the third largest export market for eu agricultural products. this agreement, the conclusion of which i voted in favour, aims at the mutual recognition of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products, which will allow eu exporters of essential agricultural products such as meat and dairy to benefit from a higher degree of protection for their designations of origin and geographical indications in one of our largest and closest markets, reflecting their expertise and a high degree of food quality.
in writing. - switzerland is the eu's fourth largest trading partner. in 2010, the eu exported €6.3 billion worth of agricultural products to switzerland, making it the third largest export market for agricultural products. it is therefore essential that the eu continues to cooperate with the swiss authorities in order to improve bilateral trade relations. the agreement on agriculture was concluded in 1999 and entered into force on 1 june 2002. however, it did not lead to genuine free trade in agricultural products, but only to partial liberalisation in some sectors of agriculture. thus, by adding a new annex, the eu and the swiss confederation aim at the mutual recognition of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications in order to improve the conditions for bilateral trade in agricultural products, while promoting quality in the food chain. eu exporters of essential agricultural products such as meat and dairy products will now enjoy a higher degree of protection for their designations of origin and geographical indications in one of our largest and closest markets. for the reasons given, i am voting in favour of approving the agreement.
in writing. - norway, as a member of the european economic area, benefits from the internal market. however, under the 1992 agreement, agriculture and fisheries have been excluded from the products which enjoy free movement, although there is provision for a gradual liberalisation of agricultural production through the revision of the conditions for marketing these products. although the overall balance of trade between norway and the union is favourable to the former, this is not the case with regard to the agricultural trade balance. the new amendment provides for greater liberalisation of trade between the eu and norway, which is welcome, while bearing in mind the sensitivity of some types of products to market conditions. notwithstanding the decrease in revenue resulting from the breakdown of customs proceeds, this agreement is considered to be overall positive for both parties.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by mr helmut scholz, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the kingdom of norway concerning the granting of additional trade preferences in agricultural products, on the basis of article 19 of the agreement on the european economic area (eea). the 1992 eea agreement, to which norway is a party, excludes agriculture and fisheries from the free movement of goods. the latest agreement between the eu and norway dates from july 2003 and covers certain agricultural products and mutual concessions, e.g. tariff quotas. between march 2008 and january 2010, negotiations took place which form the basis of the current draft agreement. given the concessions made by norway to the eu (liberalisation of 20% of exports, new tariff quotas for sensitive products such as meat and cheese, and tariff reductions for certain ornamental plants and flowers) and by the eu to norway and the fact that the agricultural trade balance is tilted in favour of the eu, i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − agriculture and fisheries were excluded from free movement in the internal market in the 1992 agreement on the european economic area (eea), to which norway is a member. however, provision was made for the progressive liberalization of agricultural production through periodic reviews of the conditions for trade in agricultural products every two years. the last agreement between norway and the european community entered into force in july 2003. the agreement included an agreement on reciprocal trade in cheese and provided for mutual concessions for a number of agricultural products, including tariff quotas. now, further liberalisation is proposed for some sensitive products, allowing some 60% of trade in agricultural products between norway and the eu to be completely free. the report refers to the concessions made by norway and the concessions made by the eu. but what is not mentioned is that they have benefits and drawbacks which are never evenly distributed across the eu. we are therefore concerned about the liberalizations made for sensitive products such as meat, dairy products, fruit and vegetables - areas where the liberalization of markets has been so damaging to portugal and its producers, especially small and medium-sized producers.
in writing. - we know that agriculture and fisheries were excluded from free movement in the internal market in the 1992 agreement on the european economic area (eea), of which norway is a member. but it provided for the progressive liberalization of agricultural production through periodic reviews of the conditions for trade in agricultural products every two years. the last agreement between norway and the european community entered into force in july 2003. the agreement included an agreement on reciprocal trade in cheese and provided for mutual concessions for a number of agricultural products, including tariff quotas. now, further liberalisation is proposed for some sensitive products, allowing some 60% of trade in agricultural products between norway and the eu to be completely free. the report refers to the concessions made by norway and the concessions made by the eu. but there is no mention of any benefits or losses which are never evenly distributed among the member states. we are therefore concerned about the liberalization of sensitive products such as meat, milk products, fruit and vegetables - areas where the liberalization of markets has been so damaging to portugal and its producers, especially small and medium-sized producers.
in writing. − as a member of the european economic area (eea), norway benefits from the internal market, but agriculture and fisheries are excluded from free movement under the 1992 agreement on the european economic area. however, article 19 of the agreement provides for the progressive liberalisation of agricultural production through periodic reviews of the conditions governing trade in agricultural products every two years, establishing further reductions of other types of obstacles to trade in the agricultural sector on a preferential, bilateral or multilateral, reciprocal and mutually advantageous basis. the latest agreement between the kingdom of norway and the european community on the basis of article 19 of the eea agreement entered into force in july 2003. the agreement included an agreement on reciprocal trade in cheese and provided for mutual concessions for a number of agricultural products, including tariff quotas. between march 2008 and january 2010, further negotiations took place, culminating in the current draft agreement, which will increase trade in agricultural products between the eu and norway.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the eu-norway agreement on the granting of additional trade preferences for agricultural products. norway is part of the european economic area (eea) and benefits from the internal market, but agriculture and fisheries are excluded from free movement under the 1992 agreement. further negotiations took place between march 2008 and january 2010 and resulted in the current draft agreement, which includes provisions on these matters. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to grant a derogation to norway from the general rules on the free movement of goods. in total, about 60% (in terms of trade value) of agricultural trade between the kingdom of norway and the european union will be fully liberalised. however, for more sensitive products such as meat, dairy products, fruit, vegetables and ornamental plants, some tariff quotas or tariff reductions exist. the agricultural trade balance is currently in favour of the eu and the agreement is balanced, favouring neither side.
in writing. the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on the free movement of goods, concluded in 1992, excluded the free movement of agricultural and fishery products. it provided, however, for the gradual liberalization of agricultural production by means of periodic review agreements to be carried out every two years. the last revision agreement having entered into force in 2003, negotiations for a new revision took place between march 2008 and january 2010, culminating in the draft agreement now before parliament for approval. the present agreement is based on a logic of reciprocal concessions and has earned my vote in favour as it represents a further step towards closer trade relations between the eu and norway.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by béla glattfelder, is based on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union (eu), the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein amending the additional agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein extending to the principality of liechtenstein the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on trade in agricultural products. the trade relations between the eu and liechtenstein cannot be dissociated from the trade relations between the eu and the swiss confederation. the ec-switzerland agricultural agreement was extended to liechtenstein and designated as an additional agreement and entered into force on 13 october 2007. as the ep has adopted a recommendation adding a new annex (annex 12 protection of designations of origin and geographical indications) to the eu-switzerland agricultural agreement, it is imperative that these rules apply to the territory of liechtenstein. i therefore vote in favour of this recommendation because this amendment to the additional agreement is a positive and, above all, necessary step.
in writing. − trade relations between the eu and liechtenstein are closely linked to trade relations between the eu and the swiss confederation, which is the european union's fourth largest trading partner. the ec-switzerland agricultural agreement was subsequently extended to the principality of liechtenstein. this extension entered into force on 13 october 2007, and implied that any amendment to the agriculture agreement would lead to an amendment to the eu-switzerland-liechtenstein agreement. it is the case that, under the additional agreement, liechtenstein products are considered as products originating in switzerland. therefore, the additional agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein should also be amended to ensure that the protection of geographical indications is also applicable to liechtenstein.
in writing. − when the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation was extended to liechtenstein on 13 october 2007, it was stipulated that any amendment to that agreement would be reflected in this second extension agreement, with liechtenstein products being considered swiss products for all purposes. since the eu-switzerland agricultural agreement is to be amended in order to ensure the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products, it is now necessary to amend the additional agreement between the european community, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein to ensure that the protection of geographical indications also applies to liechtenstein.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the convention on the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific ocean because i support the conclusion of this convention, which should contribute to the protection of biodiversity, in particular through good fishing practices.
in writing. − like other regions of the world, the south pacific ocean area did not have a convention on the conservation and management of its high seas fisheries resources. the union, through the commission, has participated in the negotiations to change this situation and has been a signatory to the convention since july 2010. despite the step taken by the european union and the importance of the subject matter underlying that international legal instrument, most of the states concerned seem reluctant to commit themselves definitively. the delay in ratifying the convention by important countries whose good practices and fishing tradition would suggest a different course of action weakens the agreement reached and calls into question its effective implementation. i hope that the situation will be reversed and that the convention can enter into force in order to ensure the sustainability and good management of fisheries resources in the south pacific. like the rapporteur, i believe that the union should be a party to most of these conventions, in order to ensure that its interests are respected, that the conservation of species is defended and that other actors adopt good practices.
in writing. − this recommendation, drawn up by ms carmen fraga estévez, is intended to address a proposal for a council decision on the approval, on behalf of the european union (eu), of the convention on the conservation and management of high seas fishery resources in the south pacific ocean. fisheries management in the south pacific is the responsibility of two international organisations: the inter-american tropical tuna commission (iattc) and the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc), which focuses on highly migratory species. to fill this gap and ensure the protection of biodiversity, the countries of the region (australia, chile and new zealand) are consulting on the creation of a south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo). although catches by eu vessels are not significant, it is necessary for the parties to ratify the convention, which was signed on 26 july 2010 by the eu, as decided by the council on 24 july 2010. the aim of this proposal for a council decision is to approve it with a view to its ratification by the eu. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − we stress once again the importance of multilateral cooperation in promoting the good conservation and management of marine biological resources, which is the subject of this report. we consider it important that there be coordination and cooperation in the management of common water bodies - seas and oceans - in order to ensure the sustainability of fishing activities, the interests of the populations and communities dependent on them and, at the same time, to ensure the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. for these reasons, we welcome the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), which aims to establish international cooperation in the fields of conservation and management of fisheries other than highly migratory fisheries and the protection of marine biodiversity in the high seas of the south pacific ocean, in accordance with international law and best practice. given that several eu member states' fleets are active in this ocean, the signing of this convention, which establishes sprfmo, is positive. given that other countries have not yet signed the convention, it is necessary to continue efforts in this direction, addressing their concerns and seeking to strengthen multilateral cooperation with the above objectives.
in writing. - the report is based on the principle that coordination and management of the common seas is important in order to ensure sustainable fisheries management, defend the interests of fleets and ensure the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. we welcome the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), which aims to establish international cooperation in the fields of conservation and management of fisheries other than highly migratory fisheries and the protection of marine biodiversity in the high seas of the south pacific ocean, in accordance with international law and best practice. it is therefore positive that the european union, which has fishing interests in this ocean, has signed the convention establishing sprfmo. however, we do share the concerns of the countries which have not yet signed the convention, as it means that international management measures will be applied in their eezs.
in writing. − all fishing in the south pacific has been managed through two regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo): the inter-american tropical tuna commission (iattc) and the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc). however, the aim of both is the management of highly migratory species, so in this vast area, fishing for other types of resources was not regulated. to fill this gap, and given that fishing is carried out both in the eez and in the high seas, the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch in 2006 a consultation process towards the establishment of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo), with the aim of cooperating to address the management and conservation gaps of non-highly migratory species and to ensure the protection of biodiversity in the high seas of the south pacific. although the eu does not have a large fishing activity in this area, its presence obliges it, under the united nations convention on the law of the sea, to cooperate with other stakeholders in the management and conservation of the resources of this area, and the eu has therefore been involved in this process from the outset.
in writing. - fisheries in the south pacific have been managed by two rfmos: the iattc and the wcpfc, both with the aim of managing highly migratory species. the fishing for other types of resources was not regulated except in the eezs of coastal states. to fill this gap, and given that there is fishing activity both in the eezs and in the high seas, the governments of australia, chile and new zealand decided to launch an international consultation process towards the creation of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo). the objective of this legislative act is to enable the eu to ratify the text of the convention signed in 2010 through the proposal for a council decision. the eu must be present at all rfmos to defend its priorities in terms of sustainable fisheries management and the defence of the interests of its fleet, and i believe that this document should be approved by this parliament.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty on 1 december 2009, there has been an increase in cases where the approval of the european parliament is required for the conclusion of international agreements, including air services agreements. this agreement follows the structure of the bilateral air safety agreements ('basas') in force between member states and third countries. the aim is to facilitate trade in the goods and services covered by this agreement, to limit, as far as possible, the duplication of assessments, tests and controls to significant regulatory differences and to rely on the certification system of one party to verify compliance with the requirements of the other party. product approval procedures will be shorter and simpler and therefore less costly. there will be mutual acceptance of the certification results, which will bring benefits to eu and brazilian companies. equally beneficial for europe is the reciprocity of the results of the certification process in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. on the basis of the above, i supported this recommendation.
in writing. − this agreement is undoubtedly of substantial benefit to the eu as a whole, as it will bring the six existing bilateral agreements to an end and, in return, establish the mutual acceptance of the results of the certification process in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. i think it is essential that all member states should be included in such an agreement, especially if we take into account that brazil is the eu's tenth largest trading partner. i support this agreement which should make a decisive contribution to facilitating trade in goods and services in this field and seek to avoid duplication of assessment, testing and controls by promoting mutual trust in each party's certification system. thanks to this agreement, both brazilian and european companies will be able to benefit from simpler, shorter and less expensive approval processes.
in writing. - the deepening of trade relations and mutual trust between the eu and brazil seems obvious to me and arises as a logical consequence of the interaction between economic agents, which is expressed in the fact that brazil is the eu's tenth largest trading partner. today we are discussing an agreement in the field of civil aviation safety, to which we give our assent, within the framework of the new powers gained by the treaty of lisbon. and in doing so, in this particular case, we are also celebrating our union and one of our greatest achievements - the removal of technical barriers between member states and between member states and third countries or economic blocs with which we have established a relationship of mutual trust and reciprocity. our companies and our citizens stand to gain from this, simply by having access to a more comprehensive, more rational and single-matrix legislative framework for the whole of europe. i welcome the deepening of relations with brazil and hope that in the near future this house will be able to give its approval to other agreements of this kind.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the implementation of this agreement on civil aviation safety will benefit eu and brazilian companies through standardised, shorter and simpler approval procedures, and therefore less costly.
in writing. - this resolution concerns the agreement between the european union and brazil on civil aviation security, signed on 14 july 2010. i hope that the european union and the largest portuguese-speaking country in the world can benefit from simplification of the procedures for product approval and acceptance of certificates in the various areas of aeronautics. i therefore hope that parliament will give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement and that it can enter into force quickly. i believe that parliament should closely monitor the implementation of the agreement and contribute to its improvement wherever this is justified.
in writing. − this recommendation, drawn up by silvia-adriana ţicău, concerns a draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union (eu) and the government of the federative republic of brazil in the field of civil aviation. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has substantially changed the competences of several european institutions, in particular the european parliament, which in the new context is called upon to express its opinion on matters which were previously outside its competence, such as the present case of an international agreement between the eu and the federative republic of brazil on air services. considering that the objectives of the agreement are to facilitate trade in goods and services and to simplify procedures without compromising safety, in particular as regards the aircraft certification system, i endorse this recommendation, aware that eu and brazilian companies will benefit from the agreement as it will establish mutual acceptance of the results of certification in all areas of airworthiness and for all member states.
in writing. − the eu/brazil air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work of the joint committee, as well as all the bodies concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. the agreement is therefore an important step towards opening the market to eu and brazilian airlines without any discrimination. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the federative republic of brazil on civil aviation security, as the report concludes that eu and brazilian companies will benefit significantly from the implementation of the agreement through shorter and simpler and therefore less costly product approval processes and mutual acceptance of certification results. in addition, the draft agreement represents a net benefit for the european union as it will establish the mutual acceptance of the results of the certification process in all areas of airworthiness for all member states. i share the rapporteur's wish that, following the ep's decision, the council should conclude the procedure without delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, as i believe that eu and brazilian companies will benefit significantly from its application thanks to shorter and simpler product approval procedures, and therefore less costly, and to a mutual acceptance of the results of certification. in addition, this agreement represents a net benefit to the european union as it will establish the mutual acceptance of the results of the certification process in all areas of airworthiness for all member states.
in writing. − the agreement between the eu and the government of the federative republic of brazil on civil aviation security was signed on 14 july 2010 and, in accordance with article 218 (6) (a) tfeu, was awaiting the approval of the european parliament. the text of the agreement aims to facilitate trade in goods and services by limiting, as far as possible, the duplication of assessments, tests and controls to significant regulatory differences and by relying on the certification system of one party to verify compliance with the requirements of the other party. eu and brazilian companies will benefit significantly from the mutual acceptance of the certification results. the draft agreement also represents a net benefit for the european union by establishing the mutual acceptance of certification results for all member states. the increased role of parliament means that the negotiations on international agreements are monitored more closely. as the shadow rapporteur for this document, i think it is essential to stress the need to keep the european parliament regularly informed about the negotiations and to notify it of any reservations which could jeopardise its approval, without waiting for the conclusion of the negotiations.
in writing. − in july 2001, the council authorised the opening of negotiations with norway and iceland on mutual legal assistance and extradition agreements, with the aim of applying to iceland and norway the provisions of the 1996 eu convention on extradition. in 2002, after the eu agreed to replace extradition with a surrender procedure under the european arrest warrant, the mission's mandate was updated. in 2006 the council adopted a comprehensive approach to the agreement on delivery procedures, which is not yet formally concluded and to which the new procedure under article 218 tfeu will now apply, with the council only being able to conclude the agreement after the ep's approval. i supported the conclusion of this agreement which aims to improve the process of surrender between the member states to norway and iceland for the purposes of criminal proceedings or the enforcement of sentences. in other words, the provisions in force between eu member states are extended to these two countries, members of the schengen area.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this agreement which aims to improve the process of surrender between the member states and norway and iceland for the purposes of criminal proceedings or the execution of a sentence. it should therefore ensure that the system of extradition between the contracting parties is based on a surrender mechanism following a detention order, which should be issued for offences punishable by the law of the issuing member state by a custodial sentence or detention order, which has a maximum duration of not less than 12 months or, where a sentence or detention order has been issued, by penalties of not less than four months' duration. in fact, this agreement is only extending to these two countries the provisions already in force between the member states, which i think is very positive, given the privileged relations that both countries, members of schengen, have with the eu. i fully share the concerns expressed by the rapporteur, mr rui tavares, about the possibility of a partial derogation from the principle of double criminalization.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the agreement will help to improve the process of surrender between the member states, norway and iceland for the purposes of criminal proceedings or the execution of a sentence. as norway and iceland already transpose much of european legislation, it was not appropriate to refuse their application to join provisions already in force between eu member states.
in writing. − the proposal for a council decision aims to conclude, on behalf of the european union, an agreement between the european union and norway on surrender procedures between the member states of the union and iceland and norway, which was already signed on 28 june 2006 but has not yet been formally concluded. the agreement is designed to improve the surrender procedure in cases of indictment or execution of a sentence, in accordance with the convention of 27 september 1996 on extradition. under the terms of the agreement, the contracting parties are to ensure that the extradition mechanism operates on the basis of a prior arrest warrant. since the agreement in question only applies to norway and iceland - at the request of those two countries - what was already in force between the member states of the union, there is no serious doubt as to its appropriateness.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the extradition procedure within the eu has been replaced by a surrender procedure under the european arrest warrant, and the european council has decided to extend this procedure to the schengen countries. the presidency of the council subsequently negotiated agreements on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and extradition proceedings with norway and iceland. in accordance with article 218 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), this agreement may be concluded only after its approval by the european parliament. in these terms, and considering that the agreement extends to the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway only the provisions in force in the member states, i support the rapporteur's proposals.
in writing. − this agreement is very important as it aims to improve the process of surrender between the member states, norway and iceland for the purpose of criminal proceedings or the execution of a sentence, taking into account, as minimum requirements, the terms of the convention on extradition between eu member states of 27 september 1996. under the provisions of the agreement, the contracting parties shall ensure that the system of extradition is based on a surrender mechanism following the issuance of an arrest warrant.
in writing. the agreement, which is subject to parliament's approval, aims to improve the process of surrender between the member states and norway and iceland for the purposes of criminal proceedings or the execution of a sentence, taking into account, as minimum requirements, the terms of the convention on extradition between eu member states of 27 september 1996. under the provisions of the agreement, the contracting parties shall ensure that the system of extradition is based on a surrender mechanism following the issuance of an arrest warrant. a detention order may be issued for offences punishable by the law of the issuing member state by a custodial sentence or detention order of a maximum duration of not less than 12 months or, where a sentence or detention order has been issued, by a sentence of not less than four months. it is simply a question of extending to norway and iceland - at the request of these two countries - the provisions already in force between the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway aims to strengthen cooperation mechanisms in the field of criminal procedure and the enforcement of penalties. the legal framework is to extend the scope of provisions already in force in the law applicable to the single area. the main concern must therefore be to ensure the fundamental principles of criminal law, namely the effective guarantee of the prohibition of the principle ne bis in idem, according to which no one should be convicted twice for the same offence, and the protection of the fundamental rights of the accused.
in writing. − the commission proposal provides for the conclusion by the european union of an agreement on surrender procedures between the eu member states and iceland and norway, signed on 28 june 2006, but not yet formally concluded. the aim of this agreement is to improve the procedures for surrender for the purposes of criminal proceedings or the execution of a sentence, taking into account, as a minimum, the terms of the convention of 27 september 1996. by concluding the agreement, the contracting parties aim at an extradition system based on a surrender mechanism following an enforcement order. a warrant may be issued for an offence punishable by a custodial sentence or detention order for a maximum period of not less than 12 months or where a sentence or detention order for a period of not less than four months has been issued. the european parliament considers that, since the agreement is intended to extend the application of the existing rules in this field in the member states of the european union, iceland and norway, it should support its conclusion and has therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established by council regulation (ec) no 521/2008. fuel cell and hydrogen (pch) technologies are promising long-term energy options that can be used in all sectors of the economy, offering a wide range of benefits for energy security, transport, the environment and resource efficiency. they are expected to play a key role in the eu's transition to a low-carbon society and to help achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by more than 85% by 2050. despite the financial crisis, the eu's major competitors in this field (the united states, japan, south korea and china) continue to make great efforts to overcome these obstacles through rtd programmes, policy measures and marketing exercises. it is therefore essential that the eu continues to invest in this technology, which requires the revision of its original regulation, which we are now amending, as proposed by the commission.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr herbert reul, mep, focuses on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 521/2008 on the establishment of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (pch), whose funding is shared between three institutions: the industrial grouping, the research grouping and the european commission. this venture is the result of a public-private partnership in the field of research at european level, based on article 187 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which created the 'joint technology initiatives' (seventh framework programme). the application of this technology is unquestionable in a wide variety of areas, notably in information technology and transport, and has made considerable progress in recent years, contributing to the reduction of co2 emissions. the commission is currently developing a european strategic energy technology plan (set plan) to create a more sustainable energy system. i welcome this motion for a resolution, which puts the eu at the forefront of innovation, establishing itself as a competitive and dynamic knowledge economy, and i welcome the proposal to set up the european institute of technology.
in writing. - as regards amendments to a council regulation on the setting-up of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, i intend to vote in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution for the following reasons: (a) the policy of promoting research in fuel and hydrogen cells was not having the desired effect and its weaknesses were identified, and it was necessary to improve it - this was the aim of the report; (b) it is commonly accepted that the study of alternatives to the oil economy is important, and that these alternatives are required to respond to economic, social and environmental crises. fuel cells and hydrogen are one of the promising possibilities that we should study. it is therefore desirable to continue the policy of supporting its study. however, i cannot help stressing that much remains to be done to achieve a more caring and environmentally friendly society.
in writing. − the fuel cells and hydrogen company is very important to meet the challenge of increasing the production of environmentally friendly energy. it's a company that's only been in operation for two years and it's aiming to be able to produce clean, low-cost energy. however, the recent crisis has led to a reduction in investment in this area, leading to a decline in activity. it is, however, very important that investment in this type of industry be reassessed if we are to achieve the objectives set for 2050.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 521/2008 on the establishment of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking. the commission has submitted a proposal to the council for approval. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the council should inform the ep if it wishes to depart from the text adopted by parliament. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle that the euro should be used as a medium for exchange of information between member states.
in writing. − the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established by council regulation (ec) no 521/2008 of 30 may 2008. its three members - the industrial cluster, the research cluster and the european commission - share the funding of administrative and operational expenses. as a result of low funding rates and the financial and economic crisis affecting the industry in the field of these future technologies, the current level of participation in the joint undertaking shares is lower than initially expected. the aim of the european commission's proposal is to adapt the provisions of the regulation to these conditions so that there is no general loss of interest, both from the industry and the scientific community. the new text provides that the availability of funds equivalent to those of the eu will allow for the contribution of industry itself as well as that of other legal entities involved in the activities to be taken into account. fuel cell and hydrogen technologies are promising long-term energy options that can be used in all sectors of the economy, offering benefits for energy security and efficiency, transport, the environment. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates greater transparency and improved audit reports in order to contribute to the stability of the financial system and to improve access to finance. i believe that statutory audit has a social function and is in the public interest, and i therefore support the proposals contained in this report.
in writing. - in the current economic context, it has become imperative to analyse and evaluate certain areas relevant to the financial and capital markets, in particular certain professional activities such as auditing. i believe, however, that this debate should take account of the wider context of the current green paper on corporate governance. it should also be borne in mind that the member states have only recently completed the transposition of the 8th directive, adopted in 2006, so it is still difficult to analyse its impact. i therefore believe that before a legislative proposal is made, the actual impact of the 8th directive should be analysed and an impact study should be carried out reflecting the costs and the opportunity for a legislative change in the coming months. however, i recognize the importance of strengthening the supervision of this occupation in order to ensure greater economic stability and the consequent strengthening of market confidence.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis which is affecting the european union so deeply has led politicians, economists and journalists, among others, to look at the causes of this situation and at ways of avoiding similar situations. the european commission, aware of the seriousness of this situation, among other measures, has prepared a document entitled 'green paper' 'audit policy: the lessons of the crisis' and intends to make it a kind of warning and prevention manual. european citizens, who are suffering the consequences of the crisis, do not understand why those who had the obligation to warn of the ongoing financial slide (bank boards, regulators, supervisors and statutory auditors) did not do so. the economy and business need trust. this requires that auditors are independent and do not have other business with companies. we must end the oligopoly, open up the market, and drastically reduce the cost of auditors. i therefore agree with the report drawn up by mr antonio masip hidalgo and i hope that, in view of the measures that have been taken, europe will quickly emerge from the crisis in which it is immersed.
in writing. − the quality of audit processes is conditioned by the auditor's independence (or lack thereof). as the report points out, there is a possibility of conflicts of interest when audit firms provide different services to the same company. on the other hand, the high concentration of the market in four large audit firms may lead to an excessive increase in risk when it is known that there are several smaller firms. we recognise that a high quality audit system must be a key part of a good corporate governance framework. we therefore support the european parliament's call on the commission to present its proposals on corporate governance and auditing in a coherent manner, although we cannot help but note that many of the proposals in the report are merely palliative.
in writing. − we know that the independence of the auditor plays a key role in the quality of the audit, so as the report points out, there is a likelihood of conflicts of interest when audit firms provide different services to the same firm. on the other hand, the high concentration of the market in the four large audit firms may cause an excessive increase in risk when it is known that there are several smaller firms. we recognise that a high quality audit system is an integral part of a good corporate governance framework. we therefore support the european parliament's call on the commission to present its proposals on corporate governance and auditing in a coherent manner, even though we know that many of the proposals in the report are merely palliative.
in writing. − auditing plays a very important role in the credibility of the economy, and the provision of opinions is aimed at the veracity and accuracy of the financial statements of the audited entities. their independence and quality are therefore essential. the rules governing them at eu level should therefore be rigorous and focus on the quality of the work carried out by audit firms, with the aim of ensuring that they are as independent as possible. the credibility of these companies is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and to avoid financial and economic crises such as the one we are still experiencing.
in writing. - the report entitled 'audit policy: lessons from the crisis' was voted unanimously in the competent parliamentary committee, the committee on legal affairs. the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs to the committee on legal affairs on this report was also unanimously adopted. the crisis in europe has triggered an unprecedented debate in the european institutions. dialogue and exchange of views are the key to establishing new development paradigms with a common objective for the 27 economies that make up the eu. in this context, i voted in favour of this report, which emphasizes the intention to increase transparency and improve audit reports in order to contribute to the stability of the financial system and to improve access to finance, either by conducting regular external evaluations or by exercising appropriate regulatory supervision, creating specific legislation that is transnational to this end.
in writing. − demographic ageing is a challenge for society and for all generations in the european union. in this context, europe has the highest percentage of elderly women in the world. older women face discrimination in the labour market linked to sex and age, and greater vulnerability due to slower, shorter and/or interrupted career paths. these factors translate into a greater gender pay gap and create a differentiation in contributions to personal pension accounts, thus increasing the risk of poverty for older women. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the situation of women approaching retirement age, which calls on the european commission and the member states to take effective measures to combat this discrimination and to ensure that the principle of equality between men and women is respected in pension reform policies and equal pay.
in writing. − it is necessary and urgent to combat the increased risk of poverty in old age, with particular attention to be paid to the age group of women over 50, where there is a higher rate of poverty, unemployment, isolation and social exclusion. it is regrettable that the risk of poverty among older women has reached about 22%. indeed, the likelihood that women, for family reasons, will have shorter, interrupted or reduced part-time careers and will receive lower average wages than men will eventually create a differential in contributions to the pension system, thus increasing the risk of poverty. it is essential to promote policies to promote active ageing and specific measures in the pension sector to ensure that women have adequate resources when they retire. in fact, economic independence is an essential condition for any human being to be able to determine his own life and to have genuine possibilities of choice. more robust economic and social policies are needed, with the necessary mechanisms for adequately managing the ageing process and the inevitable changes in society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents appropriate and effective measures to combat discrimination against women approaching retirement age. it is essential to amend the current european pension legislation to ensure that these schemes do not penalise women who are already disadvantaged in terms of benefits and contributions throughout their working lives.
in writing. - knowing that european society is ageing and knowing that the average life expectancy of women is higher than that of men, the truth is that we will have, increasingly, older women in our society to whom we must ensure adequate living conditions and a role which, in many cases, may still be active. i therefore consider it an important signal that 2012 is the 'european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations'. we must not forget that older women are more vulnerable to poverty and therefore need special attention. but more than solutions based on welfare or social status, i believe that these women must be assured of an active role in society. many are professionals with extensive experience that can be used to the benefit of younger ones. older women can take on key caring roles within the family, allowing young mothers to better balance family and work. they are invaluable assets and it is our task to encourage and protect them, creating a society of genuine solidarity between generations.
in writing. - we are currently experiencing problems that have never been equalized before. the increase in life expectancy, coupled with the drastic reduction in births in so-called developed countries, brings new social problems. the sustainability of social security financing systems is of course a matter for discussion. the report by edit bauer, in its examination of the situation of women approaching retirement age, draws attention to another gender equality problem which needs to be tackled, not just equalised, but also solved, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, namely the fight against poverty and the promotion of employment. despite the fact that women outnumber men, the employment rate in the 55-64 age group in 2009 was 54.8% for men and 37.8% for women. it is therefore necessary to eliminate the causes of this discrimination, since studies indicate that women over the age of 60 are more exposed to the fragility of social exclusion, since their pensions are lower than those of men who have had a longer contributory career. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which i fully support.
in writing. - this report deals with a matter of the utmost importance. age has indeed proved to be a crucial aspect of women's social exclusion. there is real discrimination against older women in this europe which has the highest proportion of older women in the world. the risk of poverty for older women reached around 22% in 2008, while for older men it was 16%. women are generally the victims of low wages, unemployment, parttime and precarious work, which is reflected in very poor pensions and pensions, placing them in a situation of great social fragility and at risk of poverty. older women workers face at least a double discrimination in the labour market based on gender and age, coupled with their increased vulnerability in the labour market caused by women's specific career paths. the current economic crisis has significant consequences for older women who are already discriminated against on the grounds of health or disability, as well as their access to basic care, in particular continuing services, due to budget cuts.
in writing. this report on the situation of women approaching retirement age addresses a very important issue which has proved to be a crucial point in relation to the social exclusion of women. there is real discrimination against older women in this europe which has the highest proportion of older women in the world. the risk of poverty for older women reached around 22% in 2008, while for older men it was 16%. women are generally the victims of low wages, unemployment, parttime and precarious work, which is reflected in very low pensions and pensions, placing them in a situation of great social fragility and at risk of poverty. older women workers face at least a double discrimination in the labour market based on gender and age, coupled with their increased vulnerability in the labour market caused by women's specific career paths. the current economic crisis has significant consequences for older women who are already discriminated against on the grounds of health or disability, as well as their access to basic care, in particular continuing services, due to budget cuts.
in writing. − most active labour market policies promoting gender equality target adult women and men and often overlook the disadvantage of older women compared to men in the same age group. on the other hand, the gender pay gap, career breaks (maternity leave or caring leave), parttime work and low pay that characterize women's jobs lead to multiple discrimination in old age, when the ability to integrate into working life and pension rights are even more reduced. in this regard, it is necessary to develop a systematic and comprehensive approach to active labour market policies, including special measures on health and safety at the workplace, accompanied by a strategy explicitly integrating the principle of gender equality. i voted yes.
in writing. − the elderly constitute an important and growing category of the union's population. as europe's population ages, the sustainability of pensions is a major challenge in the face of low birth rates, a shrinking labour force and a growing number of pensioners who are in good health and reaching old age. older people are a huge cultural, social and professional resource. their ongoing contribution to society, in many cases unpaid, is often overlooked and their potential for greater participation and better contribution remains under-exploited. there is widespread concern that the older generation is becoming a burden on the younger working age population and that this could fuel intergenerational tensions. one of the keys to overcoming the challenge of demographic ageing and preserving solidarity between generations lies in ensuring that people stay longer in the labour market and remain healthy, active and self-employed for longer after retirement. solidarity between generations has long been a major concern of the european union, both in policy-making and in raising public awareness.
in writing. - women represent 50% of the population in eu countries and therefore constitute a significant sector of the labour force. on the other hand, europe has the highest percentage of elderly women in the world. one of the objectives of strategy 2020 is to combat poverty and promote employment by increasing the employment rate to 75% and reducing poverty by 20 million citizens. to achieve this objective, it is necessary to assess the situation of older women. indeed, older women face at least a double discrimination in the labour market on the basis of gender and age, coupled with their increased vulnerability in the labour market caused by women's specific career paths. it is necessary to combat these stigmas through inclusive policies. i believe that the proper management of the ageing population and the inevitable changes in society will certainly contribute to the development of a more sound economic and social policy. in this context, i voted in favour of this report which presents a diagnosis and concludes on the need to integrate gender and age-related issues into all active ageing strategies at all levels of governance.
in writing. − most active labour market policies promoting gender equality target adult women and men and often overlook the disadvantage of older women compared to men in the same age group. on the other hand, the gender pay gap, career breaks (maternity leave, caring for children, etc.), parttime work and low pay, which are characteristic of women's jobs, mean that they are subject to multiple discrimination in old age, with their ability to integrate into working life and their pension rights being even more reduced. in this regard, it is necessary to develop a systematic and comprehensive approach to active labour market policies, including special measures on health and safety at the workplace, accompanied by a strategy explicitly integrating the principle of gender equality. i voted yes.
in writing. − the objective of directive 2008/52/ec is to promote the resolution of disputes by consensus, encouraging the use of mediation, and ensuring a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. in addition to predictability, the aim is to establish a framework which preserves the main advantage of mediation, flexibility, and member states are urged to take these requirements as a guide in drawing up national legislation for the implementation of this directive. the evaluation shows that most member states are not only complying with the directive but are also ahead of it. however, this report highlights the need for greater awareness and understanding of mediation, calling for more action in terms of education, increased awareness of mediation, the development of the use of mediation by businesses and the requirements for access to the mediator profession. it urges the national authorities to develop programmes to promote adequate knowledge of adr, with such actions targeting the main advantages of mediation, namely cost, success rate, time efficiency, and involving lawyers and businesses, in particular smes, as well as academics. i therefore gave my support to this report.
in writing. − one of the three pillars of the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is the guarantee of better access to justice, with procedures that are fast, adequate and accessible to all. in this context, access to adequate dispute resolution procedures is essential for both individuals and businesses. this directive promotes the consensual resolution of disputes through mediation, introducing common principles which provide the parties with a predictable legislative framework, without compromising the main advantage of mediation, which is flexibility. most member states have overburdened judicial systems, where the out-of-court settlement of disputes in civil and commercial matters could contribute to a significant reduction in the volume of cases as well as in the average time taken to resolve them. it is important that member states carry out awareness raising activities to promote appropriate knowledge of this form of alternative dispute resolution, which offers practical tailor-made solutions in a faster and cheaper manner. i also support the need to establish common rules for access to the mediation profession in order to promote the highest quality of mediation and to ensure high standards of professional training and accreditation throughout the eu.
in writing. − mediation is an effective form of dispute resolution, capable of ensuring the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of the parties, in particular in civil proceedings, without recourse to the courts and to civil proceedings based on adversarial procedure. the report analyses the efforts made by the member states to transpose the directive into their national law and considers it important to analyse the impact of this legislation on legal practitioners and courts. i would remind you once again that in this as in other matters in the area of justice, while it is advantageous to have uniformity in the rules and the law applicable, since this gives legal certainty to citizens, the right of each state to go further in defining its own rules must continue to prevail.
in writing. − this report, by arlene mccarthy, mep, analyses the application of the mediation directive in the member states and its impact on mediation and monitoring by the courts. the purpose of this report is to assess how member states are implementing the mediation directive, in accordance with directive 2008/52/ec, to find out which member states have not yet transposed it, to know the problems arising from its application, etc. as an alternative to court justice, it is imperative that people are made aware of its advantages: greater speed and much lower costs, with success rates of around 80%. only the fact that it is unknown, particularly in crossborder cases, can justify the fact that it is no longer sought. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. mediation is an excellent alternative for resolving international disputes, especially family problems, which can and should be further developed, especially in times of crisis, by drawing on the contributions of the member states. the use of these extrajudicial means should be encouraged because it makes justice much quicker, it frees up the courts and saves taxpayers money.
in writing. − this report on the implementation of mediation by the member states demonstrates the importance of alternative means of conflict resolution, alongside the courts. we cannot ignore the fact that often the solutions found in mediation are the result of work done by the parties and are therefore likely to produce a better outcome which is accepted by both parties or which both parties consider to be a win-win, and which could never be obtained by a court decision. there is obviously still a long way to go in this area, particularly in the member states which have not yet implemented the directive. however, even for those who have already done so, there should be greater awareness of the use of mediation, particularly as regards access for smes. the report draws attention to the need to strengthen the guarantees for citizens who use this means of conflict resolution, particularly as regards the requirements for access to the profession of mediator.
in writing. − ensuring better access to justice is one of the key objectives of the european union's policy to create an area of freedom, security and justice. whereas the concept of access to justice should, in this context, include access to adequate dispute resolution procedures for individuals and businesses. the objective of directive 2008/52/ec is therefore to promote the consensus-based resolution of disputes, to encourage the use of mediation, and to ensure a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. it is therefore necessary to facilitate access to mediation as a viable alternative to the traditional confrontational approach and to ensure that parties using mediation in the european union benefit from a predictable legislative framework. the directive introduces common principles to this end, dealing in particular with aspects of civil procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the application of the mediation directive in the member states, its impact on mediation and monitoring by the courts. the rapporteur points out the need to encourage national authorities to develop programmes to promote appropriate knowledge of alternative dispute resolution, considering that such actions should target the main advantages of mediation, namely cost, success rate and time efficiency. i agree with the rapporteur and point to the portuguese example where the growth rate of alternative dispute resolution has been increasing since its implementation. this is an essential measure to free the traditional justice bodies from the large and complex cases which society is taking on to bring to them. i believe that the involvement of lawyers, businesses, and especially smes, and academics, is essential to the promotion of alternative dispute resolution.
in writing. − the commission proposal is part of a set of legislative initiatives which seek to bring the current european legal order into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, in particular those concerning delegated and implementing acts. the new procedures for delegating powers to the commission under the lisbon treaty imply a distinction between delegating and implementing acts. regulation no 378/2007 lays down detailed rules for the application of voluntary modulation. it is proposed that all the powers conferred on the commission by means of the regulation be implemented by means of implementing acts in order to ensure a uniform application of voluntary modulation of direct payments. the three institutions seem to support this interpretation, so i see no reason to oppose the technical solution advocated.
in writing. - this report, by britta reimers, is on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 378/2007 as regards the rules for voluntary modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope which supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act and on member states to adopt all measures of national law necessary to implement legally binding union acts are to be aligned by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission proposal in question was examined in detail by the rapporteur and deserved her support, as she identified the areas where the conditions for implementing acts were met. in the light of the report and considering that this proposal concerns only amendments for the purpose of alignment, i therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − the clarification and simplification of the legal instruments now proposed reflect a strengthening of the european commission's power as a result of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, to the detriment of the member states. but in this context, what is necessary to stress is the lack of a real modulation of direct aid, as well as of all public aid. what is required is the gradual adjustment of aid, by steps, according to the aid received per farmer/holding, as well as its capping. the money thus obtained could play an important role in defending and promoting the national production of each member state and in creating jobs, as well as in overcoming the food production problem that countries like portugal have, in promoting local/traditional markets, in the sustainable and productive occupation of the entire territory. small and mediumsized farmers and family farming are being stifled by rising energy prices, by rising production costs and by a producer price policy that favours large distribution companies at the expense of fair value and compensation for those who produce food. the situation they have reached calls for a break with the policy options which have framed the cap reforms.
in writing. - the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has led to the clarification and simplification of legal instruments, which have increased the power of the european commission to the detriment of the member states. but what is needed is the lack of real modulation of direct aid, as well as of all public aid. what is required is a gradual reduction in the aid, in stages, according to the aid received per farmer/holding, and a ceiling. the money thus obtained could play an important role in defending and promoting the national production of each member state and in creating jobs, as well as in overcoming the problem of food production that countries like portugal have, in promoting local/traditional markets, in the sustainable and productive occupation of the entire territory. we know how small and mediumsized farmers and family farming are being stifled by rising energy prices, by rising production costs and by a policy of producer prices which favours large distribution companies at the expense of fair value and compensation for those who produce food. the situation they have reached calls for a break with the policy options which have framed the cap reforms.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon abolished the old comitology system based on the classic comitology procedures (consultation, management, regulation) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is now replaced by a two-tier structure, consisting of delegated and implementing acts (the former including the right of veto of parliament) which allow the commission to exercise powers in implementation and enforcement. the existing legislative acquis must therefore be brought into line with this new legal reality. the proposal is limited to amendments for alignment purposes only, to the rules for voluntary modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, formally and as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission under regulation (ec) no 378/2007 should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in practical terms, voluntary modulation is a mechanism which tends to create artificial imbalances in the various member states, since at the limit it will always be a question of the balance between the two pillars of the cap. i would remind you that portugal requested the use of voluntary modulation in 2008 to transfer funds from the first to the second pillar, and portugal is the member state of the european union with the best balance between the two pillars, showing well how this mechanism can be perverse if misused.
in writing. - the treaty of lisbon abolished the old comitology system and the system of implementing powers of the commission was based on the distinction between delegated and implementing acts. it has therefore become necessary to make adjustments to existing legislation in order to bring it into line with these new rules. this is precisely the aim of the present proposal for an amendment to regulation (ec) no 378/2007 on the rules for voluntary modulation of direct payments under the common agricultural policy, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − the commission and the council are currently reviewing the legislative framework (the officially supported export credit agreement) with a view to its transposition into eu law. the aim is to give the export credit agencies (eca) of the member states more legal certainty. export credits are effective instruments to support union enterprises, capable of helping to create jobs and develop projects that might otherwise face financing difficulties. in view of the increasing number of applications received, i would recommend that the oecd convention be introduced rapidly by the member states. i agree with the econ committee's opinion that european supervision of export credits should be introduced as an exception when there is any distortion of competition in the internal market. the principle of subsidiarity should be maintained.
in writing. - this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the application of certain rules to the obtaining of export credits by companies which are recipients of official support. in fact, most member states have export credit agencies (eca) which play a key role in supporting european trade and business investment, reaching €468 billion in the period 2004-09. these supports are part of the agreement on subsidies and countervailing measures (ascm), also known as the arrangement, negotiated within the framework of the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) countries, and represent public funding instruments to which the european union is committed. given that these agencies mainly support industrial activities with harmful effects on the environment, in particular due to the production of co2, and that, according to the world bank, the effects on poverty reduction are negligible, i agree with the rapporteur's position that the aces should contribute to the achievement of eu policies and objectives, and there is therefore no need to revise the oecd convention.
in writing. - the provision of credit to smes is an urgent need to enable them to maintain and create more jobs with rights, increase production and counteract the trend of closing down thousands of smes in countries in deep economic recession and with a dramatic social situation such as portugal. smes represent the majority of enterprises and employment in the eu. a credit policy, particularly of public institutions such as credit agencies, should favour smes. that doesn't happen. unfortunately, we find that the overwhelming majority of credit is granted to large transnational corporations, whose dominant position in the market is further strengthened at the expense of smes. that is the approach that this report sets out. of course, because it gives priority to exports and competitiveness when the priority at this time of crisis should be to strengthen the internal market of each country, particularly countries like portugal, and does not take into account their specificities and needs as an independent and sovereign country. the whole framework of the proposal is aimed at maintaining a framework of progressive liberalization of world trade which will accentuate the concentration and centralization of capital, further deepening the crisis of the system and the exploitation of peoples and countries.
in writing. - we know that lending to smes is an urgent need to enable them to maintain and create more jobs with rights, to increase production and to counteract the trend of closing them down, by the thousands, in countries in deep economic recession and with a dramatic social situation, such as portugal. smes represent the majority of enterprises and employment in the eu. a credit policy, particularly of public institutions such as credit agencies, should favour smes. that doesn't happen. what we unfortunately find is that the overwhelming majority of credit is going to large transnational corporations, whose dominant position in the market is further strengthened at the expense of smes. that is the approach that this report sets out. of course, because it favours exports and competitiveness, when the priority, at this time of crisis, should be to strengthen the internal market of each country, particularly countries like portugal. the whole framework of the proposal is aimed at maintaining a framework of progressive liberalization of world trade which will accentuate the concentration and centralization of capital, further deepening the crisis of the system and the exploitation of peoples and countries.
in writing. - export credit agencies (eca) facilitate legitimate trade where private capital markets cannot. they have a much higher risk-absorption capacity than private actors, since they do not have to pay taxes or realise benefits and therefore have a greater latitude than private banks to accuse losses on realised loans. the eca plays an important role in supporting trade and investment by european companies. however, in view of the public deficit situations existing in most eu member states, it seems of the utmost importance that its operations are financially sound. the support of these agencies to the economy is very important for the eu to successfully emerge from the crisis.
in writing. this report concerns the proposal for a council decision on the application of certain guidelines to officially supported export credits. most industrialized countries, including all eu member states and most emerging countries, have at least one export credit agency, which is usually an official or para-official segment of their governments. overall, export credit agencies represent the most important source of public financing of private sector projects worldwide. the financing of large industrial and infrastructure projects in developing countries is equivalent to several times the combined annual amount of all the multilateral development banks. the total amount of export credit guarantees granted in the period 2004-2009 by the export credit agencies of the eu member states was in the order of eur 468 billion. the rules to which these agencies are subject do not prevent a lack of transparency, in breach of the discipline established by the oecd convention. the current modus operandi is also conducive to bribery and corruption. i voted in favour of this report, which makes concrete proposals for greater transparency in the work of these bodies.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that the export credit agencies are the most important source of public funding for private sector projects, and that they operate mainly at national level. however, as regards the subject of the support, there is little data available, which results in undeniable lack of transparency. on the other hand, support is directed towards activities which conflict with the objectives of the union. union policy in this regard should be consistent with the objectives of the treaties and should seek to make the activities of export credit agencies compatible with community objectives. this is a path that cannot be ignored, given the high economic power of these entities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that the eu needs to establish mutually beneficial partnerships that create win-win situations for resource-rich countries and for the eu itself. in addition to an africa-eu partnership, the union could also promote partnerships with countries in eastern europe, latin america or asia. china, in particular, is an obvious partner, as it produces most of the essential rare earth elements. so raw materials diplomacy is essential. at the same time, the eu could consider non-financial support for a raw materials holding company, involving numerous european companies in the procurement of raw materials. in addition to the oecd and the g8/g20, the commission should establish concrete cooperation with the usa and japan. ultimately, to be able to respond to the raw materials challenge, the eu needs a comprehensive and integrated strategy focusing on short and long-term measures that can be implemented at both domestic and international level, especially with regard to raw materials, in order to adequately address the triple challenge of ensuring future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on an effective strategy for europe in the field of raw materials, which must be fair and respect the right of developing countries to benefit from their own resources. it is also an opportunity for the eu to support its industry for greater recycling and efficiency.
in writing. − this report focuses mainly on issues such as access to strategic raw materials and resource efficiency, recycling and substitution of raw materials, including efficient waste management as a way to increase industrial competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply in europe. we all know how essential it is for european industry to maintain access to raw materials, and i would like to remind you of a point which is particularly important for my country, namely access to raw materials used in sugar refining, which is necessary if we are to avoid a repeat of the situation of shortages of supply which occurred in portugal at the end of last year. finally, at a time of crisis, when the tax burden on citizens is increasing in some parts of europe, i do not think that this is the time to ask the commission to carry out a study on the impact of a tax on water and land use.
in writing. - raw materials are fundamental to european industry, accounting for three quarters of exports and one third of employment in the european union. however, the use of raw materials, especially in times of crisis, requires us to give careful consideration to their use. the extraction of oil, particularly in countries considered to be developing, is considered a rather complicated problem, not only to avoid exploitation of these countries by the states considered to be rich, but above all for social and environmental reasons. the diplomacy of raw materials must therefore be a matter of constant concern to this parliament. given that the eu will see a 300% increase in raw material consumption by 2050, it is essential to adopt a comprehensive and integrated strategy that includes both short-term and long-term measures and that, while not neglecting innovation, also addresses recycling efficiency. i am therefore aware that access to raw materials is essential to the well-being of european citizens, and i therefore vote in favour of this report on an effective strategy for europe in the field of raw materials, which recommends that, wherever possible, these materials should be recovered and reused, but also that their extraction should be compatible with the environment, in order to minimise climate change.
in writing. the report highlights the concerns of an eu that is increasingly feeling the constraints of raw materials shortages. we are facing an increasingly acute confrontation between a system based on the irrational exploitation of natural resources and the natural limits of a generous, but finite, earth. as a result, the dispute over the existing reserves of some essential raw materials is intensifying and taking on violent forms, as is happening in north africa and the near and middle east. the sovereignty and interests of peoples and states are being disregarded and new and disturbing forms of colonialism are being put into practice, if necessary by means of war, as is happening in libya. another important aspect which the report does not adequately address concerns speculation in the commodities market. we have therefore put forward proposals to create all the conditions necessary to ensure that the physical market is not overshadowed by the financial market in derivatives, the volume of which has grown disproportionately over the years. in order to combat speculation, which can make raw materials inaccessible, it is not enough to talk about transparency in general, as is done in the report. we must go much further, including in the fight against speculative instruments and the derivatives market.
in writing. - as we said in the debate, it is essential to combat speculation in the commodities market and to create all the conditions to ensure that the physical market is not overshadowed by the financial market in derivatives, the volume of which has grown disproportionately over the years. but to protect it from speculation which can make raw materials inaccessible, it is not enough to talk about transparency in general. we must go much further, including in the fight against speculative instruments and the derivatives market. but it is also necessary that their exploitation be carried out in compliance with social and environmental rules, in addition to respect for the sovereignty and interests of the states and peoples where these resources exist, including in the development of cooperation with third producing countries, in particular africa, avoiding any new forms of colonialism. but as we know, the european union's positions in this field are increasingly imperialist in character, as is shown by all its intervention, particularly in libya. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − europe faces challenges but also great opportunities in raw materials, as the eu has the opportunity to reap the benefits of the sudden increase in global demand for raw materials by improving their supply and efficiency, while meeting the needs of european industry and the sector in question. we believe that equitable access to raw materials at stable and predictable prices is of vital importance for the development potential, competitiveness, innovation and preservation of european industry, to the detriment of restrictions on access and supply, in particular of raw materials such as base metals and rare earth elements. similarly, high price volatility can hamper the competitiveness, eco-efficiency and innovation prospects of eu industry, especially smes. i believe that resource policy and resource diplomacy are of great importance to the eu not only in terms of industrial policy and international trade but also as a cross-cutting issue in different areas of internal policy as well as foreign and security policy.
in writing. - european industry is facing an increasingly difficult situation in the supply of raw materials. it is essential that the european union establishes mutually beneficial partnerships that create win-win situations for resource-rich countries and for the eu itself. the european union needs a comprehensive and integrated strategy focusing on short- and long-term measures that can be implemented at both domestic and international level, especially for key raw materials such as rare earth elements. at the heart of this strategy should be an industrial innovation strategy based on resource efficiency and recycling, the only measures that adequately address the triple challenge of ensuring future competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. these are challenges facing not only the governments but all the entities involved, challenges that must be met with research and development (r & d) to replace them, to which the universities must be called upon to contribute, as the research pole that they are by nature.
in writing. − the development of an effective strategy in the field of raw materials is one of the major challenges for the economic development of the european union. the need to import a number of products which are essential to achieving energy sustainability in the community has created difficulties for the import of products. the rapporteur stresses that these obstacles, which are difficult to overcome, can be seen as an opportunity to improve efficiency in the use of resources. these measures cannot, however, be taken in isolation: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. community diplomacy on this issue, adapting the eu's position to the characteristics of the trading partner, is therefore a necessary way of helping community firms to acquire the raw materials they lack.
in writing. − a sustainable, efficient and competitive european industrial policy, as expressed in the eu2020 strategy, requires a concerted policy on raw materials. this report focuses mainly on access to strategic raw materials, in particular rare earth elements, with a dimension on efficiency, reduction of resources used, recycling, reuse and waste management. the report also calls for the creation of a european innovation partnership for raw materials, which would include an internal and external dimension of raw materials' sustainability. at the internal level, it calls for greater cooperation between member states, while at the external level, it calls for partnerships with poor countries, with the brics, and with rich countries. regular listing of critical raw materials and an assessment of their risk, the establishment of a methodology to assess the current state and future developments of raw material efficiency, the creation of a legal framework to encourage and promote the recycling of raw materials are examples of the measures proposed in this report for more effective governance and coordination. finally, i would stress the importance of combating the volatility of agricultural prices in order to guarantee a fair price for all players in the sector and for consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the present and future management of fisheries in the black sea because it contains proposals which should make it possible to achieve tangible results in terms of protecting the livelihoods of fishermen and guaranteeing the economic development of coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fisheries resources.
in writing. − joint management of fisheries resources and coordination of efforts between the various actors in the fisheries sector are becoming increasingly important. unlike other areas of the world, the black sea has not benefited from this integrated management, which has been damaging the way in which the activity is developed in the region and threatens to put at risk both traditional ways of life and the survival of some of the species caught. the politically complex project of institutional coordination for the management of the sector, to be shared by all the riparian states, possibly by creating an autonomous regional fisheries management organization, seems to be of the greatest importance and could constitute an important stimulus so that, also in other matters, there can be similar coordination between the same countries.
in writing. - this report, by iliana malinova iotova, deals with the current and future management of fisheries in the black sea. concern for fisheries resources in the european union has been a constant in this european parliament, which has on several occasions debated the problems of the common fisheries policy. an integrated maritime policy requires control measures and investment. the situation is complicated in the black sea: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the fisheries sector. it is therefore necessary to set up a black sea fisheries management organisation to monitor this activity and to provide the basis for scientific research and the development of a regional database on fishing activity, in order to enhance the resource rather than deplete it. i therefore wholeheartedly support this report, which aims to establish a regulatory framework for solving this problem in the short term and within the eastern partnerships, which can be applied in other regions.
in writing. - the report has positive aspects in relation to the necessary definition of the medium-term development framework for fisheries in the black sea region. since there is no coordinated action in this region among all the fisheries actors, institutionalised coordination could ensure tangible results in terms of protecting fishermen's livelihoods, ensuring the economic development of coastal areas and protecting the ecological balance and fishery resources in the basin. this applies, of course, not only to the eu member states in the black sea region but also to the other four coastal states. however, we cannot agree with some of the proposals in the report, such as the call for the creation of a european coast guard function. we do not deny the need for increased cooperation in a number of areas covered in the report. however, we do not think that this is the appropriate framework for developing such cooperation. we also disagree with the excessive focus on the role that the european commission may play in defining the future framework for fisheries management in the region. this is part of a centralised approach to fisheries management, of which the current cfp is an example, which has shown its limits and problems to the full, in contrast to the necessary local management which we have always advocated.
in writing. − the black sea region is strategically important for the european union in view of its geographical location, which encompasses three eu member states (greece, romania and bulgaria) and several important partners, including russia and turkey. fisheries cooperation between the countries of the black sea region represents considerable progress in conservation management and effective dispute settlement in the black sea basin. the creation of a black sea regional fisheries management organisation is very important for the management of fisheries in the black sea. this body will allow the coexistence of fishing practices with the sole objective of recovering and preserving the fishery resources of the black sea. as eu members, bulgaria and romania are required to apply certain measures for the conservation of stocks in their waters. however, these measures cannot be fully effective without being applied also in the other black sea states. the creation of such an organisation will affirm the eu's commitment to the region in terms of sustainable fisheries development, as it will have long-term beneficial effects for all black sea states.
in writing. - the first objective of this report is to set out the medium- and long-term framework for the development of fisheries in the black sea region. an in-depth analysis of the fisheries situation in the black sea shows the need to find the most effective form of cooperation between all the countries in the region. the specific nature of the black sea's biodiversity also requires a common approach to the management of this unique basin. this requires institutionalised cooperation between these countries with regard to the conservation of stocks. through this initiative, the measures provided for in the eu's common fisheries policy will be implemented throughout the black sea basin. this argument is supported by scientific research, which shows that institutionalised cooperation is vital for the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources in the context of sustainable development. it is important to stress that the creation of such an organisation will affirm the eu's commitment in the region in terms of sustainable fisheries development, as it will have long-term beneficial effects for all black sea states.
in writing. − the challenges posed by the management of the black sea must be addressed by the six states that share it, including two eu member states: romania and bulgaria. the various states concerned must in fact strengthen cooperation and dialogue in order to find joint solutions to ensure a stable, sustainable and adapted fisheries sector in the black sea basin, the protection of the ecological balance and fisheries resources in the region and a more effective fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. the environmental disaster in the gulf of mexico, the result of a colossal oil spill into the sea, has raised concerns about the risks, responsibilities and legislation governing oil exploration and extraction. the report to be voted on tomorrow reflects the eu's responsibility to ensure the protection of its coasts and its capacity to respond to such environmental disasters. i welcome the introduction of my suggestions, particularly as regards european coordination and the role of emsa. in terms of coordination at eu level and with neighbouring countries, there is a need to ensure best practice and harmonisation of the various approaches across the various regions of the eu, both at accident prevention and response level. i would like to highlight the role of the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, which provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and protection in the area of pollution caused by ships. the report proposes to extend the powers of the european maritime agency to include monitoring, information sharing and coordination of prevention and response.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the safety challenges of offshore oil and gas exploration because it is necessary to prevent the occurrence of accidents similar to those experienced off the coast of the usa, in particular by approving safety plans before operations start, including independent third party verification procedures. it is also important to ensure that the polluter pays principle applies to all damage to the marine environment and biodiversity and that oil and gas companies can be held liable for any environmental damage.
in writing. − in the eu, more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas are extracted from offshore operations, most of which take place in the north sea. it is essential that the union creates the conditions for the safest possible oil exploitation, knowing the importance of oil extraction to the countries that extract it and the dangers involved (as can be seen from the terrible consequences of oil spill accidents). to this end, it is important that there is adequate legislation, including basic safety standards for offshore oil and gas production, ensuring the safety of their extraction and supply in the eu. as a portuguese, i cannot help recalling the prestige disaster which deeply affected the galician coast, and i would like to draw attention to the fact that the measures now proposed should not be limited to oil exploration and extraction but also to its transport and supply, since oil tanker disasters are unfortunately more frequent than we would like and it is also important to review safety standards in order to reduce the likelihood of such disasters.
in writing. − this report focuses on the safety challenges of offshore oil and gas operations. the recent environmental disasters the gulf of mexico oil spill (one of the largest environmental disasters ever and the largest oil spill in us history) in april 2010 (bp) and the north sea oil spill in august 2011 (shell) have put the debate on the safety conditions in which oil and gas extraction companies operate on the agenda. we all recognise that the supply of oil and gas is fundamental to the quality of life of all citizens in general and of europeans in particular. however, safety measures for workers and construction standards must be guaranteed to prevent fuel leakage that could harm the environment. it is therefore essential that there is a simplified legal framework covering drilling operations and helping to solve the problems of environmental pollution. while i recognize that this is a rather complex matter, i welcome the presentation of this report, which i voted in favour of, as it safeguards the environmental aspects and the safety of workers in this activity, putting the public interest above the private interest.
in writing. - this report follows on from earlier debates in parliament on this same subject, in which the need for effective regulatory and control measures to prevent accidents similar to the gulf of mexico in the usa has been stressed. numerous accidents have already shown that offshore oil and gas activities and exploration cannot continue to be carried out with the central objective of maximising profits for the economic groups involved in such activities. this puts the safety of workers on the platforms and the people as well as natural ecosystems at risk. the report makes proposals which are generally positive, even if there are some contradictions in one case or another. it is essential to define very clear rules to protect the environment, the public interest, the workers involved and the neighbouring populations. it is also necessary and urgent to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with them through effective supervision and control.
in writing. - the report seeks to stress the need for effective regulatory and control measures to prevent accidents similar to those which have already occurred, particularly in the usa. based on experience and the numerous accidents which have already shown that offshore oil and gas activities and exploitation cannot continue to be carried out with the main objective of maximising profits for the economic groups involved in such activities, at the expense of the safety of their workers and the population, a wide range of proposals are put forward which are generally positive, even if in some cases there are some contradictions. but it is essential that there be very clear rules in the defence of the environment, the public interest, the workers involved, the neighbouring populations. it is also necessary and urgent to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with them through effective supervision and control.
in writing. − offshore sources account for more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas produced in the eu and norway. however, the numerous and serious accidents have shown that offshore exploitation cannot continue under the same rules and be dictated solely by the economic interests of private groups. the report calls on the commission to reduce the damage thresholds and to impose a strict liability regime. it also considers that operators should be required to prove that they have sufficient financial capacity to ensure that environmental damage caused by their activity, including those that may be caused by high impact and low probability incidents, is compensated. it stressed the risks of this activity to the health and safety of its workers and recommended continued regulation and an insurance scheme appropriate to the risks of workers. it also called for the treatment of workers within the same company to be avoided and for all workers in the offshore sector to be covered by the same rules. as the report is moving in this positive direction, i voted in favour of it. however, although it is not the subject of the report, i stress the need to rethink energy sources.
in writing. − this report emphasises the need to implement a package to monitor oil and gas exploration in eu seas in the national legislation of each member state. such measures are necessary to ensure that offshore oil and gas is properly exploited and that in these times of crisis this industry continues to prosper, without ever forgetting the continuation of the good fuel market, but also that the safety and well-being of citizens continue to prosper. i believe that the provisions of this report are of great importance in order to discuss in the member states the safety measures for offshore oil and gas exploration at all levels in order to avoid ecological disasters, since these do not respect the land or sea borders of any state. an independent body is therefore needed to monitor regularly the efficiency and the proper functioning of oil companies and the preventive measures taken by them. this report also addresses and clarifies issues related to the transport and exploitation of offshore oil and gas fields.
in writing. − national supplies of oil and natural gas make an important contribution to energy consumption and to the eu's energy security. in the eu, more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas is extracted from offshore operations. the activity is not evenly distributed across the eu and the vast majority of operations take place in the north sea. in the eu, only two member states account for approximately 80% of crude oil production, while norway produces more than all 27 eu member states combined. the challenges to safety in oil and gas exploration are great. although the allocation of operating licences is a matter for member states, it is essential to strive for high safety standards throughout the eu. in this respect, this report presents an important set of proposals to the member states on safety. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for the future of the european union.
in writing. - the adoption of safety measures for offshore oil and gas exploration is a priority in environmental protection. the risks involved in any extraction of these raw materials can and must be controlled in order to ensure not only the energy sustainability of europe but also the protection of environmental resources. the emphasis is on measures such as the exchange of information between the various actors, the creation of appropriate plans to deal with the risks involved, taking into account the intervention of workers particularly able to identify some dangers that might otherwise not be considered, and, by way of example, the introduction of accountability mechanisms that encourage the parties involved to ensure the safety of their premises (and also, when adopting a model of risk socialization, to ensure compliance with safety standards by other operators).
in writing. - articles 191 and 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union state that member states are responsible for determining the conditions for exploiting their energy resources and must act on the basis of preventive action to safeguard the environment and energy security. i am voting in favour of the report because i believe it contains suggestions for preventing accidents in a preventive manner. all phases of work, from the start of operations to decommissioning, must have a rigorous and structured safety, health and environmental plan to ensure the maintenance of the marine ecosystem. i would also like to stress that the procedures must follow a common set of eu criteria and that the farms must be subject to regular inspections by independent experts. it is important to ensure that inspection bodies are equipped with the most advanced risk monitoring methods and technologies. although a network of good practice already exists, i believe it is important to boost interregional forums, joint meetings between political authorities and exploiting companies and to encourage greater multilateral cooperation for a better sharing of knowledge. finally, i believe that workers should be involved in the definition of working conditions, and that a preventive culture in the field of health and safety at work should be promoted.
in writing. - there is a growing movement in europe towards women's participation in the labour market, which is also manifested in the world of small and medium-sized enterprises. although there are improvements compared to the past, the data show that the optimum level of gender equality in the area of entrepreneurship is not yet reached. women have more difficulty in starting up a business, either because of deep-rooted prejudices in society or because of the coordination of employment and family life, coupled with a severe economic and social situation in europe and the world. in this sense, i consider it extremely important to combat this status quo through policies to support women entrepreneurs, reducing the gender gap, creating vocational guidance and training structures at all levels, improving access to finance and social measures to allow free choice in conjunction with family life. i also welcome the creation of crossborder cooperation programmes to support women entrepreneurs, which will enable the exchange of experience, the rationalisation of resources and the sharing of best practice. only through strong and concerted policies can women participate in the world of entrepreneurship on a more equal footing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates information and training campaigns specifically for women, so that they can make better use of the funding opportunities available through european programmes. the conclusions of recent studies, which prove that women entrepreneurs are more prudent than men when it comes to taking economic and financial risks, should be taken into account in accessing finance.
in writing. the principle of equality is, alongside freedom, one of the pillars of democratic states governed by the rule of law. it is because i believe in the importance of the principle of equality that i understand that men and women deserve equal opportunities and should have equal conditions in the business world. europe needs entrepreneurs, whether men or women. but entrepreneurship is not a given. you create the conditions for yours first. for women, this is done by removing the remaining barriers - such as the negative impact of motherhood on career progression - rather than by regulatory imposition. i also do not think that this is the right place to bring up again the issue of quotas for women in management and business leadership, which was voted on by this parliament at the last part-session.
in writing. - this report, by marina yannakoudakis, focuses on women's entrepreneurship in small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the role of smes as the economic engine of the european union (eu) - especially in times of crisis such as the present one - has been discussed on several occasions in this plenary. this report, however, draws our attention to another reality. the reality of female entrepreneurship. if times are hard enough on their own, they become even more troubling for those who struggle to thrive in a world hitherto dominated by men. this report, while recognising not only the value of women entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises but also their capacity for initiative and versatility in undertaking business tasks, particularly in administration, notes the existence of many obstacles which they have to overcome to achieve their objectives. i welcome the adoption of this report which not only recognises the role of women but also mentions their contribution to job creation and benefits to local economies. it also encourages member states to adopt good practices and guidelines to facilitate women's entrepreneurship, particularly in terms of facilitating access to finance.
in writing. - the term entrepreneurship has become widespread and commonplace. he's not innocent. entrepreneurship is a concept: the creation of one's own job; the idea that employment (or lack thereof) is not a social problem for which society and the state (its organized expression) must seek solutions, but a problem unique to the individual which the individual must, as he can and knows, solve. the gradual introduction of this concept is inseparable from the degradation of labour relations, social and labour rights, and the concrete and real destruction of jobs, particularly through the destruction of productive sectors, as is happening in portugal. the situation of women, who continue to live in many cases in a disadvantaged position, being victims of discrimination in their workplaces, is particularly worrying. the wage gap between the average wages of men and women in the european union is around 18%, a figure that is being aggravated by the crisis. this report misses many of these points, is full of contradictions, and that is why we did not support it. we recognize the importance of supporting smes, but we cannot ignore the growing reality of the so-called selfemployed, who are in fact a doorway to precarious employment.
in writing. - although the word entrepreneurship is being widely used, we cannot replace or disconnect from this concept, which also incorporates the idea of creating the workplace itself, from the current degradation of labour relations, given the deep and serious offensive that is being experienced, both at the level of social and labour rights and in the concrete and real destruction of jobs, in particular through the destruction of productive sectors, as is the case in portugal. the report therefore contains a number of contradictions, which is why we did not vote in favour of it. and while we recognize the importance of supporting micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, we think it is necessary to draw attention to the growing reality of the so-called selfemployed, who are in fact a door open to precarious employment relationships, with which the rights of those who work are intended to be destroyed. we are particularly concerned about the situation of women, who in many cases continue to be disadvantaged and are subject to discrimination at work at various levels, not to mention the wage gap between the average wages of men and women in the european union, which is around 18%, a figure which this crisis is likely to exacerbate.
in writing. − this own-initiative report makes a number of recommendations to promote member states' policies to support smes, taking into account the needs and the strategic role that women entrepreneurs can play. the report recommends that women's participation in the market be promoted through training programmes and project funding, tax benefits, exchange of good practice between countries and anti-discrimination policies in access to credit. it also aims to combat false selfemployment and to encourage the creation of programmes to help people, mainly women engaged in domestic work, carers or other services, who are neither employed nor selfemployed, to switch to the selfemployed scheme or to set up their own businesses. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the business world, those who run their own businesses are often more committed and spend more time than their workers. in the case of women, the sacrifices may be even greater, for they may have to overcome discrimination in a traditionally male environment. many have to balance their own personal aspirations with their dedication to their family. despite all this, women have clearly demonstrated their capabilities in the workplace. recognising women's capabilities in the workplace and helping them through means such as an eu report to strengthen their situation are key. this will not only encourage women to enter the business world but also ensure that they move on an equal footing in an environment where there can be no room for sex discrimination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on women entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises, which sets out a series of measures aimed at full gender parity. although in many sectors this is not a problem, active policies are needed for entrepreneurship. in this respect, i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the need to optimise access to financial and educational support, urging regional and local authorities to make better use of the funding opportunities available to women entrepreneurs through special grants, venture capital, social security arrangements and interest rate subsidies that allow fair and equitable access to finance, such as the european microfinance instrument progress, which offers micro-credit up to eur 25 000 to micro-enterprises and those wishing to start their own small business and who do not have access to traditional banking services, thus supporting the unemployed who do not have access to bank credit.
in writing. − this own-initiative report makes a number of recommendations to promote member states' policies to support smes, taking into account the needs and the strategic role that women entrepreneurs can play. the report recommends that women's participation in the market be promoted through training programmes and project funding, tax benefits, exchange of good practice between countries and anti-discrimination policies in access to credit. it also aims to combat false selfemployment and to encourage the creation of programmes to help people, mainly women engaged in domestic work, carers or other services, who are neither employed nor selfemployed, to switch to the selfemployed scheme or to set up their own businesses. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the important subject of female entrepreneurship in smes, and points to a set of measures to encourage and enable women to launch entrepreneurial projects. indeed, the number of male entrepreneurs in the eu continues to outnumber female entrepreneurs and, to this extent, it is important to develop policies to combat inequality by ensuring women's access to finance as well as to support structures and professional counselling.
in writing. − over the past few years, the european institutions and the member states have been working to ensure equal opportunities for men and women in the labour market. however, only 10% of women are in the management of smes, and it is important to continue to encourage women to launch new business ventures. i welcome this report for emphasizing the importance of women in the labour market, suggesting the creation of programmes that will enhance vocational training, financial incentives and reconciliation between work and family life. in order to stimulate female entrepreneurship, i would stress that member states should take the initiative to promote workshops and conferences between women with new business ideas and key stakeholders, with particular emphasis on funding companies (venture capital and business angels), public bodies responsible for the management of programmes to encourage entrepreneurship enshrined in the community support framework and business advisory structures. finally, i consider the involvement of universities and polytechnics to be of high added value in pursuing the goals of female entrepreneurship, as they can stimulate students to develop new projects that enable the creation of new companies.
mr president, commissioner, minister, transparency is a prerequisite for further integration of the eu energy market. this integration brings clear benefits for consumers. the regulation adopted today is a step towards completing the internal energy market by 2014. the regulation establishes a database of transactions in the wholesale energy market and the creation of a european register of market participants, avoiding unfair practices. unfair practices in the wholesale energy market affect price levels and harm consumers. the lack of transparency can lead to a price increase for final consumers and can undermine the confidence of potential investors in infrastructure projects. this regulation is therefore fundamental to the proper functioning of the internal market and to consumer and investor confidence in the internal energy market.
i would also like to stress the fundamental importance of this report, mr president, mr commissioner, in terms of the transparency of the european energy market. and i just want to say that this is a central area of cooperation on a european level if we safeguard some of the dimensions that are fundamental, among them preventing liberalisation from turning into an increase in energy prices for citizens, guaranteeing equal access and being careful about sanctions, as has already been mentioned by many colleagues. and precisely because this is a central area of european cooperation, mr president, mr commissioner, i cannot help but mention it and question it and ask it to your face, mr commissioner. i would like to give you the opportunity to explain yourself in relation to the recent statements you have made in relation to greece, ireland and portugal, because they are also matters of european cooperation. symbolic measures such as the flags being lowered to half-staff, commissioner, are to reinforce the shame of citizens who are worthy and who are fighting for a europe... (the president cut the speaker off)
replacing the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. - mr president, commissioner sefcovic, members of the council, polish presidency, i would first of all like to state that i am speaking here in a dual capacity: on the one hand, i am replacing the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs, my danish colleague messerschmidt, who is absent because the election process is currently under way in denmark, and i am therefore representing him as a member of afco, but also as a member of juri, as rapporteur in the juri for this report. the first question i would like to raise is that in the crisis we are in, the economic and financial crisis, the question of smart regulation, of smart regulation, of better legislation is a central question. there is no doubt that in the so-called structural reforms which can give the european area an economic and financial start, improvement in legislation and regulation is also absolutely essential. it is clear that a europe which is to be dynamic and competitive must have simple regulations which are accessible to businesses and, of course, to citizens, and must therefore be geared to their needs. the fact is that it is essential today to achieve the first programme for reducing administrative burdens, to make every effort to promote consultation with market players, representative associations of citizens and businesses and to carry out an impact assessment of the legislation itself, which is also extremely important, so that the decision-making process can essentially be based on the opinion of those who are the target of the legislation and can be done without administrative burdens and with less economic and financial costs. it should be said that the idea of the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity is particularly relevant to the committee on constitutional affairs, the idea that european intervention should be appropriate and not an intervention that promotes the complexity of the legal and regulatory system, and that is why we have paid particular attention, in our opinion, to the increased role that national parliaments now play in this dynamic, precisely because of the principle of proportionality and the principle of subsidiarity. it is therefore essential that we now involve the national parliaments in smart regulation and in improving legislation, so that both legislation and regulation, at european and national level, are more agile, smarter and more efficient. this is therefore a good time to put into practice what we announce every day, namely a more competitive europe and a more agile europe through smarter regulation.
madam president, commissioner, when you speak here of the support that the european commission is giving to smes, i have difficulty understanding which countries you are talking about. in portugal, in 2011 alone, many thousands of smes have already closed down due to lack of support, due to difficulties in accessing credit, in particular for the export of their production, due to the decrease in demand and the purchasing power of the majority of the portuguese population, as a result of the so-called austerity measures that are being practiced. the question i ask you, commissioner, is whether the commission will propose amendments to the memorandum signed by the european commission, the international monetary fund and the european central bank with the portuguese government. it is only by making a fundamental change to this document that we will be able to combat the recession, to promote economic growth, to increase the purchasing power of the population, to boost demand and to help prevent micro and small firms from closing down, and this is a key issue.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, the problem of homeless people is an unacceptable violation of fundamental human rights and effective measures are needed. as stated in the european parliament's statement of 16 december 2010, it is essential to give priority to actions that promote social inclusion, to ensure that no one sleeps on the streets and that even their eventual stay in temporary accommodation is limited to the time strictly necessary to provide them with a decent accommodation, their own housing. we therefore urge the european commission to develop an ambitious strategy for the homeless and to support member states in developing effective national strategies, including support from community funds to finance housing projects for marginalised groups in the member states where necessary. but above all, it is essential that the issue of homelessness is mainstreamed into the various relevant policy areas, including economic, financial and social, to ensure jobs with rights, quality public services and dignified reforms. if this does not happen, then with the neoliberal and anti-social policies and the so-called austerity plans being imposed on some member states, we will have more and more people without sufficient income to have a home, increasing the number of homeless people and people without the ability to pay for electricity, gas, water, sanitation, rent or bank loans for the purchase of housing. and that is why it is called for, once and for all, to pay special attention to this situation.
madam president, the number of homeless people and those living below the poverty line has been increasing steadily in recent years in several member states. the economic, financial and social crisis and the increase in unemployment have aggravated this problem, as everyone has already diagnosed. we also all agree that this phenomenon is the negation of important values of the european union: respect for human dignity and respect for fundamental rights. in my country, for example, which is subject to a strong austerity measure, the concept of homelessness, according to the national plan, includes people who come to ask for help to get a meal. and the number of people seeking help with eating has increased by more than 20 percent since 2008. the greatest increase is seen in the families and the needy, whose living situation has been altered by unemployment and also by bank debt. this is just one example of the seriousness of the situation. last year, the european parliament adopted a written declaration on a european union strategy for the homeless. in this declaration, parliament called for the european union to have a strategy, backed up by national and regional strategies, with the long-term objective of ending the situation of people sleeping on the streets and long-term homelessness. national strategies should focus on preventive measures, but also on concrete actions to improve the quality of services provided to the homeless and the availability of affordable housing. it is also clear that this european strategy must be compatible with the social housing policy of the member states. we have taken note of the commissioner's words and have noted the point he has made. i would like to conclude by urging the european commission to make a strong effort to coordinate the action of the member states and the regional authorities to combat this social injustice.
madam president, as we have seen in this debate, there are a number of man-made atmospheric emissions which are likely to interfere with the earth's climate. but the european union's approach to the problem of climate change has been focused almost exclusively, as we know, on carbon dioxide. this is not unrelated to the fact that this was the compound chosen for the assembly of a scheme to generate billions of fictitious financial assets through the so-called carbon market. however, where these so-called market solutions have already been tried - which in theory and in practice have also been applied to other compounds - these solutions, he said, do not demonstrate their proclaimed virtuosity. on the contrary, these solutions have proved to be ineffective and perverse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to ensure that this information is not misused.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr minister, first of all i would like to say how pleased i was to hear the president of the commission speak today. i would like to congratulate you on your balanced but firm defence of the community method. i am absolutely convinced that there is no chance of overcoming this crisis unless we have recourse to the community method. and this use of the community method requires a completely firm, completely determined attitude on the part of parliament and of us members of this parliament to support and support the efforts of the commission. it is often said that the commission needs to be more proactive. i think so too. but the truth is that at this moment we already have on the table the proposal for project bonds. we already have here in parliament, for example, the proposal to make funds more flexible for the countries that are involved, whether they are members of the euro or outside the euro, and that will allow these countries to be allocated resources so that, while the austerity programmes are running, there can be growth. we have also heard today that there will be a properly balanced proposal to introduce eurobonds, either in a version compatible with the existing treaties or in a version which may involve institutional reform. we also had this news here. we also know, of course, that this proposal must be balanced, because it is not enough to introduce eurobonds. that's just one possible variable of the problem solving. what i meant by this is that we now have a range of solutions put forward by the commission that only needs one thing: it needs our enthusiastic support now and in the week of the state of the union address to give the commission the strength to move forward with a solution to our crisis.
it has already been pointed out here that there are 200 billion euros in switzerland, which have escaped from greece. and there are billions more, from the various member states - including your country and my country, portugal, mr president - that have disappeared from companies, banks and economies, to many other tax havens, evading or defrauding national authorities. and there are many more capital which, benefiting from the backlash of tax rivalry within the european union itself, take refuge in the netherlands, luxembourg, belgium, the city or ireland, deserting investment in the countries which generated it. what credibility and effectiveness does the economic governance proposed by the commission and the council have if they have done nothing to control tax havens and recover the funds parked there and if they do nothing to achieve fiscal harmonization in the euro area?
mr president, it is striking that the only concern of those responsible for the european union is the market god, that is, financial interests, and that they subordinate all their policies and guidelines to these. so here we leave the most vivid protest and indignation against these anti-social policies that systematically forget people, indifferent to the worsening of the divergence, inequalities, unemployment, poverty and social exclusion that they are creating. it is unacceptable that what was called the european social model is being destroyed in most member states, that the principle of economic and social cohesion is being ignored and that even senior leaders of the european union are publicly humiliating the member states and their peoples, who are suffering the consequences of their neoliberal and anti-social policies. what will it take to revise their positions and their policies? the increase in social tensions and the struggles of the workers and the populations who are desperate for these policies? this is certainly what will happen, as is already planned in portugal, with the cgtp demonstrations scheduled for 1 october.
in writing. in recent weeks, updated figures have been released to reflect the recession (at best, stagnation) in the euro area economies. the gloomy prospects of a few months ago are now even darker. the crisis is deepening rapidly. in this context, it is becoming increasingly clear that the masters of this eu are plunged into the deepest disorientation. it is becoming increasingly clear that the eu institutions and the powers that have been driving the integration process have nothing to offer the peoples of europe but a profound civilizational regression. the forward escape, the tightening of the rope, is the only path they know and point to. a dangerous path, because it is based on the deepening of the guidelines that have brought us here. their inability to solve this crisis is indeed structural. a crisis which is simultaneously an expression of the uneven development of capitalism in the eu of the asymmetrical interdependence which relegates countries such as portugal, greece and ireland to a subordinate and dependent insertion in the process of capitalist integration and also of the deregulation of capital markets, of the financialization of the economy, which opens the way to all forms of speculation (and extortion). the crisis will not be resolved if these two factors persist.
in writing. since the economic and euro crisis began, much has been done to assert the european union's ability to overcome this phase and to regain the confidence of our citizens, markets and global partners. the crisis is an opportunity for the european union to show its ability to embark on the path of growth and economic recovery, which requires a union of stability and solidarity that will only be possible through the community method, as the president of the european commission has said. several member states, such as portugal, have made efforts to take this task of euro survival and stability seriously through austerity measures and programmes to clean up their public finances. it is therefore essential for the future of the euro area and the european union as we know it to strengthen the spirit of partnership between the various european institutions and the member states, in the form of their national governments and parliaments. the european parliament has a key role to play in this, as the representative of 500 million european citizens and the legislative body of the european union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the debate on administrative expenditure in a time of severe financial, economic and social crisis is always conducive to populism and demagogy. it should therefore be remembered that the expenditure of all the institutions of the european union represents only 5.6% of the overall budget of the european union. i do not know of any institution or organisation in the european union or in any member state that has this performance. that is why the idea that some people try to pass on that there is an excess of administrative and operational expenditure is wrong and unfair. i think that the expenditure of the institutions has been managed with rigor over the years. the expectations of parliament, the commission and the council are, moreover, at present exceeded in terms of operating expenditure. in fact, in 2012, and after the budgets of all the institutions have been presented, there will be a margin, a surplus, of more than 500 million euros. this means that the institutions, despite the increase in new jobs, despite the new powers resulting from the lisbon treaty, despite new institutions such as the european external action service, have been able to present rigorous budgets, even exceeding the expectations of the council and the european commission. as regards parliament's 2012 budget, it is neither correct nor serious to compare its update with that of 2011. the entry of 18 new members, as a result of the application of the treaty of lisbon, implies an additional expenditure of some eur 10.6 million. the accession of croatia also has implications for practically the same amount. i am referring only to these two situations, which involve expenditure which cannot be reduced or eliminated. i would remind you that parliament's estimates have already been adopted by this house, and i would remind you that the proposal to update the administration was 5.2%, and we reached agreement on 2.3%. we've made efforts, but we want to go further, to the limit of what we can cut. of course, the additional sacrifices we're going to make ourselves have to be legal and have to have an effect in a timely manner. as regards the institutions other than the european parliament, i regret the blind cuts made by the council. there must be money for wages, there must be money for commitments and for current expenditure. we need strong institutions with the resources to meet today's challenges, and that is what citizens expect.
in writing. - i support this report because it supports workers who were made redundant following 167 redundancies in a multinational company (at&s), which specialises in the manufacture of pcbs (printed circuit boards) for mobile phones, during the last quarter of 2009. 74 redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures, supported by egf funding totalling eur 1.22 million. that is precisely what the fund is for: to address the most pressing social issues.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of the egf for austria to support workers made redundant by the printed circuit board manufacturer at&s in the municipality of leoben in upper east styria.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by austria in relation to 167 redundancies (of which 74 are potential recipients of assistance) in the printed circuit board manufacturer at&s in the municipality of leoben, i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission's proposal, as amended by parliament. i also agree that the information provided on the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed by the egf includes information on complementarity with actions financed under the structural funds, and reiterate the european parliament's call on the commission to also present a comparative assessment of those data in its annual reports.
in writing. - unfortunately, the european globalisation adjustment fund has been used in a number of cases, which shows both the impact it has had on the european economy and the economic and financial crisis affecting parts of the union. in this case, it is an austrian printed circuit board industry which has been in difficulty, leading to the dismissal of 167 workers. i hope that the funds will be made available to the workers who are entitled to them as quickly as possible.
in writing. - the low wage policy in some regions, particularly in asia and china, has led to the relocation of many businesses in the european union and the closure of others. this situation occurred in austria with the mass production of printed circuit boards. this report deals with a proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 1 221 128 from the egf to support the reintegration of austrian workers made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. this application, the seventh to be examined under the eu budget 2011, was submitted by austria on 11 march 2010 and concerns 167 redundancies in the printed circuit board manufacturer at&s. as this is a specific budgetary instrument, the amount requested has a legal framework and is in line with the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for austria, i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that it will help to alleviate the economic difficulties of the inhabitants of that region and to revive the local economy.
in writing. - at almost every plenary session of this parliament, several requests for the mobilisation of this fund have been approved. it is a clear sign of the consequences of the dominant policies in the eu, but it does not necessarily mean that they must be changed. this report supports the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the seventh application examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 221 128 from the egf for austria. it concerns 167 redundancies (74 of which were potential beneficiaries of aid) in the printed circuit board (pcb) manufacturing company at&s in the upper east styria region during the four-month reference period from 1 september to 31 december 2009. while it is true that the effects of the capitalist crisis have been concentrated in a particularly severe way in the peripheral countries - which is due to the capitalist nature of the integration process and its inherent uneven development - it is also a fact, which we must not forget, that in no country are workers immune from these effects.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to austria, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 167 redundancies (of which 74 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in the printed circuit board manufacturing company at&s in the municipality of leoben in eastern upper styria.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 221 128 from the egf in favour of 167 redundancies (74 of which were potential beneficiaries of support) in the printed circuit board (pcb) manufacturing company at&s in the region of eastern upper styria, austria, during the reference period of four months from 1 september to 31 december 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − in the framework of the implementation of the 2011 budget, an application for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund was submitted for the seventh time. this application was lodged by austria on the basis of article 2 (c) of the egf regulation and concerns 167 redundancies (74 of which were potential beneficiaries) in the company at&s, specialised in the production of printed circuit boards (pcbs) in the upper east styria region, during the four-month reference period from 1 september to 31 december 2009. according to the assessment, these redundancies were unforeseen and will have a significant impact on the municipality and the surrounding region. as all the conditions for mobilising the egf are met in this case, i voted in favour, in the expectation that assistance to workers made redundant will be made available quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the austrian company at&s specialises in the production of printed circuit boards and has relocated production due to increasing sales price pressure, the weakening of the dollar against the euro and an increase in wages in european factories. austria has therefore submitted a request to the european commission to mobilise eur 1 221 128 to cover the 167 redundancies that occurred between 1 september and 31 december 2009 in the company located in the region of eastern upper styria. i would like to stress that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of at&s, as it is complementary support from the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. - i support this report because it supports workers made redundant, following the 1 180 redundancies that occurred in different companies specialising in the manufacture of base metals in two regions of austria in 2009. 356 workers made redundant will be supported by personalised measures and supported by the egf totalling eur 8.28 million.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of the egf for austria to support workers made redundant in 54 companies in the basic metal industries in the region of styria and lower austria.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by austria in relation to 1 180 redundancies (of which 356 are potential recipients of assistance) in 54 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 24 (basic metal industries) in the nuts ii regions of styria (at22) and lower austria (at12), i voted in favour of the resolution in order to agree with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the egf was created as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines and therefore deserves a specific allocation in order to avoid transfers from other budget lines, as has happened in the past, which could be detrimental to the achievement of the objectives of the different policies.
in writing. - the basic metal industries, which once flourished on european soil, are now also in deep crisis. this is the case for those operating in the steiermark and lower austria regions, which had to lay off 1 180 workers, 356 of whom were eligible for assistance. i hope that the regions affected, and in particular the workers made redundant, will be able to resume production and recover from this period of difficulty.
in writing. − the european union, recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. this report is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/007 at/steiermark and niederösterreich, austria). in june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 9 march 2010. this is the sixth application submitted under the eu budget for 2011, with a budget of eur 8 284 908, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 1 180 workers from 54 steel companies in the region of styria and lower austria. i approve this aid, hoping for a rapid recovery of the austrian metal industry.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to austria, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 1 180 redundancies (of which 356 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 54 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 24 (basic metal industries) in the nuts ii regions of styria (at22) and lower austria (at12), austria.
in writing. − this report also refers to the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 10 june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this was the sixth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 8 284 908 from the egf in favour of 1 180 redundancies (of which 356 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 54 enterprises operating in division 24 (basic metal industries) in the regions of styria and lower austria during the reference period of nine months from 1 april 2009 to 31 december 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the application submitted by austria for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) concerns 1 180 redundancies (of which 356 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 54 enterprises operating in division 24 (basic metal industries) in the regions of styria and lower austria. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in a region or in two regions adjacent to nuts ii. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - this report supports the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the seventh application examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 221 128 from the egf for austria. it concerns 167 redundancies (74 of which were potential beneficiaries of aid) in the printed circuit board (pcb) manufacturing company at&s in the upper east styria region during the four-month reference period from 1 september to 31 december 2009. the application, egf/2010/008 at/at&s (austria), was submitted to the commission on 11 march 2010 and supplemented by additional information up to 22 february 2011. it was based on the intervention criterion in article 2 (c) of the egf regulation, which allows applicants to derogate from the requirements of article 2 (a) and (b) in small labour markets or in exceptional circumstances, provided that redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. in this case, the austrian authorities have specified that their application seeks a derogation from article 2 (a) which sets a limit of at least 500 redundancies in a four-month period.
in writing. − i approve the report as it gives the green light for the mobilisation of eur 0.61 million to cover various activities to be carried out by the ec services in 2011, such as information and seminars on the egf, its evaluation and monitoring and the creation of standardised procedures for its application.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 also provides that 0,35% of the maximum amount of the egf may be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. i therefore supported this report on the commission's request for the mobilisation of the fund to cover its administrative needs in terms of monitoring information on the implementation of the egf, the creation of a knowledge base to speed up the application and processing of applications, technical and administrative assistance, exchange of best practices between member states and mid-term evaluation of the egf.
in writing. − whereas the commission requested the mobilisation of the egf to cover its administrative needs in terms of monitoring and information on the use of the egf, the creation of a knowledge base to speed up applications and their processing, technical and administrative assistance, the exchange of best practices between member states and the mid-term evaluation of the egf, i voted in favour of the resolution as it meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation.
in writing. − in view of the increasing use of the egf, the commission has requested that it be mobilised to cover its needs, in particular for monitoring and information on the way the fund is being implemented and for technical assistance. i agree with this mobilisation, but i hope that it will not lose sight of its ultimate aim, which is to prevent the administrative machinery from being tempted to acquire more powers, which will bring it more money and more staff, and thus avoid this vicious circle.
in writing. − the european union, recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. in june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of eur 610 000 from the egf to cover technical assistance expenditure of the commission, in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, to finance the following activities: collection of data on applications received and funded, maintenance and updating of the egf website, creation of a recognition base, administrative and technical assistance, exchange of best practices between member states and mid-term evaluation in accordance with article 17 (1) (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. since this is a proposal which is duly substantiated in legal terms and is indispensable to cover the financial needs of the fund's implementation, i have no objection to its adoption.
in writing. the report is intended to respond to a request from the european commission to mobilise eur 610 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure. according to the commission, this amount is intended to cover the following activities: - control aims to collect data on applications received and financed, as well as on proposed and implemented measures, and will update and print the statistical picture of the egf. - information the egf website will be regularly updated and expanded, and translated into all the official eu languages. press briefings will be published and the egf annual report will be prepared, translated, printed and distributed. - creation of a knowledge base aims to establish a standardised system for egf applications and their processing, which will make it possible to simplify access to reports for different needs. - administrative and technical assistance the egf contact group of experts, which has 27 members, one from each member state, will hold two meetings. - exchange of best practice between member states. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
in writing. - the report is intended to respond to a request from the european commission to mobilise eur 610 000 from the fund to cover the commission's technical assistance expenditure. according to the commission, this amount is intended to cover the following activities: - control aims to collect data on applications received and financed, as well as on proposed and implemented measures, and will update and print the statistical picture of the egf; - information the egf website will be regularly updated and expanded, and translated into all the official eu languages. press briefings will be published and the egf annual report will be prepared, translated, printed and distributed. - creation of a knowledge base aims to establish a standardised system for egf applications and their processing, which will make it possible to simplify access to reports for different needs. - administrative and technical assistance the egf contact group of experts, which has 27 members, one from each member state, will hold two meetings. - exchange of best practice between member states.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 22 june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 610 000 from the fund to cover technical assistance expenditure by the commission. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure. a maximum of eur 1,75 million may be used annually to cover the implementation needs of the fund indicated.
in writing. − in the context of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission adopted on 22 june 2011 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf, concerning the mobilisation of eur 610 000 to cover technical assistance expenditure of the commission. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure. a maximum of eur 1,75 million may be used annually to cover the implementation needs of the fund indicated. the commission justifies the transfer of this amount on the basis of the need to cover the monitoring of applications received and financed, information activities (maintenance of the egf website and its translation into all official eu languages), the creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical assistance, the exchange of best practices between member states and evaluation. in view of the favourable opinion of the letter from the committee on employment and social affairs and the approval of the committee on budgets, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. with a budget of eur 500 million in 2011, the egf has been an important instrument of support for workers in a wide range of member states, justifying the creation of networks that enhance the exchange of information and strategic synergies between the economic and social partners on this financing mechanism. article 8 of the egf regulation provides that a maximum of 0,35% of the annual amount may be made available each year to finance technical assistance activities, including the provision of information and technical guidance to member states in the egf analysis, evaluation and monitoring processes. i approve this report, noting that the ec has only requested the mobilisation of eur 610 000.00 out of the total amount of eur 1 750 000.00 provided for in the annual budget.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of the egf in the netherlands to support workers made redundant in 52 printing and recording companies in the zuid-holland and utrecht regions.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands concerning 800 redundancies in 52 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii regions of zuid-holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31), i voted in favour of the resolution in that i agree with the european commission proposal and the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that, following parliament's repeated requests, the 2011 budget contains, for the first time, payment appropriations in the amount of eur 47 608 950 under the budget line of the egf (04 05 01).
in writing. - 800 redundancies in the printing and recording sector in the dutch regions of zuid-holland and utrecht, together with many other redundancies in the same country and sector, are a worrying sign of the effects of globalisation and the present economic and financial crisis. i hope that the mobilisation of the fund will enable workers to be quickly reintegrated into the labour market and that the dutch society, traditionally dynamic, creative and entrepreneurial, will live up to its brilliant commercial history and be able to rebuild its productive fabric.
in writing. - the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/007 nl/zuid-holland and utrecht division 18', netherlands). in june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the 11th application under the eu budget for 2011, submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010, for the mobilisation of eur 2 649 148, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the redundancies of 800 workers in 52 printing and recording companies in the nut ii region of zuid-holland (nl 33) and utrecht (nl 31). i am voting in favour of this proposal, which achieves the objectives which led the eu to set up this fund, and i hope that the economic fabric of the regions concerned will be restored quickly.
in writing. - another case of workers made redundant in the netherlands, another request to mobilise the fund. on 28 june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the printing industry. this is the 11th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 649 148 from the egf. the application concerns 800 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in 52 companies. it was based on the criteria laid down in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which make intervention subject to at least 500 redundancies in a nine-month period in enterprises in the same nace rev. 2 division in one or two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. the dutch authorities argue that the economic and financial crisis and its impact on the sector could not have been foreseen. here we leave, once again, the recognition of the need to support these workers. we are also once again protesting vigorously against the fact that these dismissals, like so many others, have not been prevented.
in writing. - in this case, it is another support for workers made redundant in the netherlands. on 28 june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the printing industry. this is the 11th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 649 148 from the egf for the netherlands, and the application concerns 800 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 52 enterprises. it was based on the criteria laid down in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which make intervention subject to at least 500 redundancies in a nine-month period in enterprises in the same nace rev. 2 division in one or two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. the dutch authorities further argue that the economic and financial crisis and its impact on the sector could not have been foreseen.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and it is now necessary to provide this assistance to the netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance concerning 800 redundancies in 52 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii regions of zuid-holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31) in the netherlands.
in writing. − in the context of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission adopted on 28 june 2011 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 11th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 2 649 148 from the egf to support 800 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in 52 enterprises operating in nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii regions of zuid-holland (nl33) and utrecht (nl31) in the netherlands, during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the application submitted by the netherlands for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) concerns 800 redundancies (all potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 52 enterprises operating in nace rev.2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii regions of zuid-holland and utrecht. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. the scope of the egf was temporarily extended by the egf regulation to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division of nace level 2, in a region or in two regions adjacent to nuts level ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of the egf in the netherlands to support workers made redundant in 14 printing and recording companies in the noord-brabant region.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands concerning 199 redundancies, all of them potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 14 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of noord-brabant (nl41), i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that the information provided on the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed by the egf includes information on complementarity with actions financed under the structural funds, and reiterate its call on the commission to also present a comparative assessment of this data in its annual reports.
in writing. the dutch printing and recording industry has encountered problems which have prompted the netherlands to submit a request for assistance concerning the 199 workers who have since been made redundant in the province of north brabant. the multiplicity of requests and the need for a swift response from the union are a clear indication of the difficult times facing the european economy and raise fears that others will follow. since the commission and the rapporteur consider that the application for assistance fulfils the eligibility criteria, i see no reason why we should not support this request further.
in writing. - this report, by barbara matera, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/007 nl/noord-brabant division 18', netherlands). in june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the ninth application under the eu budget for 2011, submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010, for the mobilisation of an amount of eur 667.823 and is intended to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 199 workers from 14 companies in the printing and reproduction of recorded media sector in the nut ii region, north brabant (nl 41). i am voting in favour of this proposal, which achieves the objectives which led the eu to set up this fund, and i hope that the economic fabric of the region will be restored quickly.
in writing. the workers and other workers, 199 in all, in a printing and recording industry in the netherlands are another victim of the capitalist crisis, and we are now called upon to support them. this support is essential, but it does not stop the revolt and the demand to give priority to prevention rather than to palliatives, as we have so often said. this would require a radical change in existing policies, which the gentlemen of this eu do not seem to be willing to do, quite the contrary. this report concerns another egf mobilisation. on 28 june 2011, the commission approved this new proposal for the netherlands to support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market. this was the ninth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 667 823. the application concerns redundancies, all of them potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 14 enterprises operating in the nuts ii region of noord-brabant (nl41) during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010.
in writing. - this report concerns another egf mobilisation. on 28 june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market. this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 667 823 from the egf for the netherlands. the application concerns 199 redundancies, all of them potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 14 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of noord-brabant (nl41) during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010. the application for egf/2010/027 nl/noord-brabant division 18 from the netherlands was submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010 and supplemented by additional information up to 7 march 2011. it was based on the intervention criterion provided for in article 2 (c) of the egf regulation, which allows member states to submit, in the case of small markets or in exceptional circumstances, an application for a contribution from the egf.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to the netherlands, which submitted a request for assistance concerning 199 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 14 enterprises in division 18 of nace rev. 2 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of north brabant (nl41) in the netherlands.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission adopted on 28 june 2011 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this was the ninth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 667 823 from the egf in favour of 199 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 14 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of north brabant (nl41) during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of the egf in the netherlands to support workers made redundant in nine printing and recording companies in the overijssel region.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands concerning 214 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in nine enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21), i voted in favour of the resolution in agreeing with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree with the institutions' commitment to ensure that the procedures for adopting decisions on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the provision of individual, specific and temporary support to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis are carried out smoothly and expeditiously. i also stress the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market.
in writing. − in the face of worrying signs that appear to be emanating from several european economies and the way in which the stability of the euro area and the very survival of the single currency is being called into question, calls for additional support to be mobilised for workers made redundant, both because of major structural changes in world trade patterns and those made redundant as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, are fully understandable. as in other regions of the netherlands, the printing and recording industry in overijssel has made redundancies of employees who are eligible for egf assistance. the number of requests to mobilise the fund cannot but concern policy-makers and motivate them to seek solutions to problems that directly affect the lives of workers and the european economies.
in writing. - this report, by barbara matera, focuses on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/028 nl/ overrijssel division 18', netherlands). in june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the tenth application under the eu budget 2011 submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010 for the mobilisation of an amount of eur 718 140. the purpose of this application is to alleviate the social impact of the dismissal of some 214 workers from 9 companies in the printing and reproduction of recorded media sector in the nut ii region, overijssel (nl21) in the netherlands. i am voting in favour of this proposal, which achieves the objectives which led the eu to set up this fund, and i hope that the economic fabric of the region will be restored quickly.
in writing. - another call for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, more workers made redundant. this application concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 718 140 from the egf in favour of the netherlands. the dismissals concerned 214 workers (all potential beneficiaries of the intervention) in nine companies active in the printing and reproduction of recorded media in the netherlands during the nine-month period from 16 january to 16 october 2010. the application was based on the criterion that member states are allowed to submit, in the case of small markets or in exceptional circumstances, an application for egf support even if the conditions laid down in article 2 (a) and (b) are not fully met, provided that redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. as on other occasions, we have approved this request because we consider it essential that the workers who have been made redundant be supported. but, as on other occasions, we reiterate here that we are facing yet another point in the trail of destruction that the crisis of capitalism has been leaving in this eu - itself a process of capitalist integration and, for that very reason, an inescapable factor of crisis, with the policies it has been promoting over the years.
in writing. − it concerns the mobilisation of the egf and is the tenth application examined under the 2011 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 718 140 from the egf for the netherlands. the dismissals concerned 214 workers (all potential beneficiaries of the intervention) in nine enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21) in the netherlands during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010. the application was based on the intervention criterion provided for in article 2 (c) of the egf regulation, which allows member states to submit, in the case of small markets or in exceptional circumstances, an application for an egf contribution even if the conditions laid down in article 2 (a) and (b) are not fully met, provided that redundancies have a serious impact on employment and the local economy. on 28 june 2011, the commission adopted this new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf, which is key to facilitating access to a new job, is designed to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and has been used in the past by other eu countries. it is now responsible for granting this aid to the netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 214 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in nine enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21).
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission adopted on 28 june 2011 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this was the tenth application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 718 140 from the egf in favour of 214 workers (all potential beneficiaries of the intervention) in nine enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the nuts ii region of overijssel (nl21) in the netherlands during the nine-month reference period from 16 january to 16 october 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the effects of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. on 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, of which the increase in unemployment is one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of the egf in the netherlands to support workers made redundant in 26 printing and recording companies in the noord-holland and flevoland regions.
in writing. - having regard to the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands concerning 551 redundancies, all of them potential recipients of assistance, in 26 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two nuts ii regions of noord-holland (nl 32) and flevoland (nl 23), i voted in favour of the resolution, in that i agree with the european commission proposal, with the respective amendments introduced by the european parliament. i also agree that under article 6 of the egf regulation, it is necessary to ensure that the egf supports the individual reintegration of workers made redundant into working life. i would like to reiterate, however, that egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of firms by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements, nor measures to restructure firms or sectors. measures financed by the egf should aim at the creation of long-term jobs.
in writing. - several printing and recording industries in the netherlands have submitted requests for assistance. in the present case, 551 workers were made redundant in the regions of noord-holland and flevoland. in view of other resolutions adopted on the same date, this is not an isolated case. unfortunately, several industries in the same sector have had to lay off workers, creating social emergency situations which the egf is also trying to alleviate. in this case as in the previous ones, i hope that the mobilisation of the fund will make a real contribution to the reintegration of workers in difficulty and will promote the creation of more sustainable jobs.
in writing. - the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/030 nl/ noord-holland and flevoland division 18', netherlands). in june 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the 12th application under the eu budget for 2011, submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010, for the mobilisation of eur 1 849 086, which is intended to mitigate the social impact of the 551 redundancies in 26 companies in the printing and reproduction of recorded media sector in the nut ii region, noord-holland (nl 32) and flevoland (nl 23). i am voting in favour of this proposal, which achieves the objectives which led the eu to set up this fund, and i hope that the economic fabric of the regions mentioned above will be restored quickly.
in writing. − the report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, relating to an application from the netherlands which was approved by the european commission on 28 june 2011. this is the 12th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and is a new proposal in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this mobilisation corresponds to a total amount of eur 1 849 086 from the egf and concerns 551 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 26 printing and recording companies. the application was submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010 and supplemented by additional information by 3 march 2011. it was based on the criteria laid down in the egf regulation, which make intervention conditional on the occurrence of at least 500 redundancies in enterprises in one region or in two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. as always, we felt it was more important to have an intervention before the closure of the companies. we voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the vital support for the workers made redundant.
in writing. − this report concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of an application from the netherlands which was approved by the european commission on 28 june 2011. this is a new proposal for the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis and is the 12th application to be examined under the 2011 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 849 086 from the egf and concerns 551 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 26 printing and recording companies. the application was submitted to the commission on 20 december 2010 and supplemented by additional information by 3 march 2011. it was based on the criteria laid down in the egf regulation, which make intervention conditional on the occurrence of at least 500 redundancies in enterprises in one region or in two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. although we felt it was more important to have intervention before the closure of companies, we voted in favour of the proposal for support for dismissed workers.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf, which is essential to facilitate access to a new job, is designed to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and has already been used in the past by other eu countries. the eu is now to grant this aid to the netherlands, which has submitted a request for assistance concerning 551 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in 26 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 18 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two nuts ii regions of noord-holland (nl 32) and flevoland (nl 23).
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the commission adopted on 28 june 2011 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 12th application to be examined under the 2011 budget for the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 1 849 086 from the egf in favour of 551 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in 26 enterprises in division 18 of nace rev. 2 (printing and reproduction of recorded media) in the two nuts ii regions noord-holland (nl 32) and flevoland (nl 23), during the reference period of nine months from 16 january to 16 october 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i support the document, since the application submitted meets the pre-defined criteria and because in particular workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic crisis should be helped. the european globalisation adjustment fund should therefore provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world or regional trade patterns resulting from globalisation or, in the case of reinforcement, from the current context, in order to contribute to their reintegration into the labour market. finally, it is important that this assistance be provided as rapidly as possible.
in writing. - i support this report because it not only prohibits the manipulation of eu energy markets, but also defines them and puts in place control mechanisms and sanctions to deter such market abuse. as foreseen in this report, a strong role must be given to acer (the agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators) in monitoring markets, monitoring and helping to enforce regulation by national regulatory authorities, and a registration system for market participants, ensuring that sanctions take into account the harm caused to consumers by market abuse. to that end, acer should have sufficient resources to take into account the additional tasks assigned to it. it is also important that there should be harmonisation of penalties in all member states and, to this end, the commission should consider making proposals to harmonise minimum standards of penalties.
in writing. − energy market transparency is an essential condition for further integration of the eu energy market, which is expected to bring considerable benefits to consumers. unfair practices in the wholesale energy market can cause high price volatility, lead to higher energy prices for final consumers and undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects. the present report, which i have supported, welcomes the commission's proposal, but proposes some improvements, in particular: this regulation should also cover co2 markets under the community emission allowance scheme; the need for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators to be equipped with sufficient financial and human resources and to be able to set up liaison offices located in the vicinity of the main trading platforms.
in writing. − transparency is a prerequisite for further integration of the eu energy market. this integration brings clear benefits for consumers. the regulation adopted today is a step towards completing the internal energy market by 2014. the regulation establishes a database of wholesale energy transactions and the creation of a european register of market participants to prevent unfair practices. unfair practices in the wholesale energy market affect price levels and harm consumers. the lack of transparency can lead to a price increase for final consumers and can undermine the confidence of potential investors in energy infrastructure projects. this regulation is therefore fundamental for the proper functioning of the internal market and for consumers and investors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it absolutely essential to monitor european energy markets effectively. the enhanced role of acer (european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators) based in ljubljana, slovenia, in particular with regard to a truly effective coordination of the network of regulators of the member states and the application of the existing legal framework, will bring greater transparency and efficiency to the markets, which will translate into objective economic gains. i would also like to stress the increased role of research and the enforcement of the existing legal framework, which i consider to be extremely important, as a deterrent to competitive practices that are harmful to the interests of the member states, the union and consumers. i now hope that the final agreement with the council will be reached quickly following the informal agreement of 23 june with the hungarian presidency and that this regulation will enter into force quickly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the integrity and transparency of the energy market because it contains important proposals to prevent and punish any attempts at market abuse and speculation in the energy sector, with a view to protecting the interests and rights of consumers.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation (remit regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets) establishes a legal framework at eu level to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy (gas and electricity) sector. in view of the strategic importance of the energy market and the tendency to abuse it, the commission's proposal and its sectoral approach to prevent market abuse are welcome. the structure of the proposal and the mechanisms proposed for implementing the regulation are, as the rapporteur says, appropriate for regulating a market of increasing importance and which is intended to move towards the integration of national energy markets into a single european market.
in writing. - this report, by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, focuses on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the integrity and transparency of energy markets. the energy market integrity and transparency regulation (remit) will apply to contracts for the production, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity and aims to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets, thereby protecting consumers. the newly created agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acre) will play a key role in monitoring these markets in partnership with the regulatory authorities of the member states and will report annually to the european commission. energy costs, both for individuals and for the business sector, represent a substantial share of expenditure. it is therefore necessary to avoid unfair practices that lead to price increases and undermine the confidence of potential investors. this is a proposal which deserves my support because it represents a significant step forward in defending the rights of consumers in one of the most important sectors of the world economy.
in writing. - first, they liberalized the energy sector. the consequences are well known: the formation of private monopolies, high prices, little attention to consumers, fabulous profits. the european parliament, which supported this option, now wants to pass new rules to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets and, it is said, to protect consumers. the monitoring of these markets will be done at eu level to help member states prevent, detect and punish abusive practices, according to the commission proposal. they forget that they have contributed to this by facilitating privatizations and monopolistic concentration in the sector. by promoting deregulation processes in the name of the god of the market, with disastrous consequences (as attested to by several studies). this regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets (remit) will apply to trade in wholesale energy products, in particular to contracts and derivatives relating to the production, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity. they now say that energy must remain accessible to all, as it is a key sector for the economy. but they hide the fact that the liberalization they have promoted has led to serious problems and that energy poverty is a sad reality for consumers, smes have seen their production costs rise significantly, for which there are still no answers.
in writing. - after liberalizing the energy sector with all the known consequences, including the formation of private monopolies, high prices and a lack of consumer awareness, the european parliament approves new rules to prevent abuse in wholesale energy markets and protect consumers, which are now universally recognised as necessary. the monitoring of these markets will be done at eu level to help member states prevent, detect and punish abusive practices, according to the commission proposal. they forget that they have contributed to this by facilitating privatizations and the concentration of capital in this area. this regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets (remit) will apply to trade in wholesale energy products, in particular to contracts and derivatives relating to the production, supply and transport of natural gas and electricity. of course, they now say that energy must remain affordable for all, because it is a key sector for the economy. but they cannot hide the fact that price liberalisation has led to a serious problem and that energy poverty is increasingly a sad reality for consumers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, for which there are still no answers. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation (remit energy market integrity and transparency regulation) establishes a legal framework at eu level to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy (gas and electricity) sector. with the adoption of this report we are concerned about consumer protection in the energy market. it is our duty to protect consumers and to ensure that the final price they pay is fair. it is not possible to talk about consumer protection without having a more transparent internal market. the energy market cannot be based on privileged information or dominated by monopolies. i am in favour of introducing penalties for possible harm to consumers. i therefore welcome the adoption of this regulation, which will contribute to the creation of an internal energy market.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation (remit regulation on the integrity and transparency of energy markets) establishes a legal framework at eu level to prevent market abuse and manipulation in the energy (gas and electricity) sector. this report was largely adopted by consensus in the committee on industry, research and energy. the commission proposal and its sectoral approach focusing on the energy sector, with a view to avoiding market abuse, was welcomed by the ep. i also agree with the structure of the proposal and the mechanisms suggested for implementing the regulation, as well as with the various improvements put forward by the ep and reflected in the draft report, in particular the strengthening of the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, which plays a key role in implementing this regulation and should therefore be provided with sufficient financial and human resources and be able to set up liaison offices located in the vicinity of the main trading platforms. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation in question concerns the wholesale energy market. this is an area which deserves particular attention from the community institutions, since any failures in the functioning of the market have repercussions on businesses, citizens and households. the aim of this proposal is precisely to combat unfair practices which distort the normal functioning of the market. this is a particularly sensitive issue, and community action is justified.
in writing. the electricity and gas market, particularly as regards the wholesale market, should be placed within an appropriate legislative framework for energy issues. only in this way will it be possible to prevent abuse and manipulation in the energy sector and to ensure fair, competitive and transparent prices for final consumers. this regulation lays down rules on insider dealing, market manipulation and disclosure of inside information. the newly created agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) is responsible for monitoring the information provided by the member states and reporting it to the european commission. the aim is also to provide acer with the human and financial resources needed to operate and to be able to draw up projects in the future. a system of authorisations for energy operators, valid throughout the eu and mandatory for transactions above a certain value, which allows the withdrawal of authorisation in the event of non-compliance with this regulation, is essential for the success of this measure. this report, which is specific to the wholesale electricity and gas sector, is crucial for the implementation of a common energy policy for the 27. it is urgent to create a sustainable, competitive and competitive market which at the same time reduces the eu's dependence on the outside world.
in writing. - i approve of the report in that it is above all a document which considers the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which introduces a series of new legal bases designed to facilitate the implementation, application and enforcement of union law.
in writing. − this report assesses the commission's monitoring of the application of european union law in 2009. it focuses on the commission's key role as guardian of the treaties and its power and duty to bring actions against member states which fail to comply with obligations imposed on them by the treaty. the report calls on the commission to propose a procedural law in the form of a regulation under the new legal basis of article 298 tfeu in order to strengthen citizens' rights and ensure transparency. such a procedural right shall in no way limit the commission's discretion and shall be limited to ensuring that the commission, in the exercise of its power, respects the principles of an open, efficient and independent european administration as set out in article 298 tfeu and article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu.
in writing. − the ways in which community legislation is implemented, applied and enforced have long been a matter of concern to both european legislators and legal practitioners. their volume and complexity tend to increase while their intelligibility and applicability may be in question. to address these concerns, the lisbon treaty introduced a number of legal bases aimed at improving the way in which community law is legislated and applied. the resolution respects the commission's key role as the initiator of infringement proceedings against member states which fail to comply with the provisions of the treaty by focusing on its two phases: administrative and judicial. the commission's discretion in this type of procedure has been the subject of reflection by experts, with the rapporteur suggesting the need to adopt a procedural law which would not, however, limit it. this is just one of the problems in which legal and jurisdictional tension between the european institutions and the member states is evident and which reinforces the urgency of monitoring the adoption and application of community law and of seeking to improve both its formulation and its systematic coherence.
in writing. − this report, by eva lichtenberger, focuses on the 27th annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law by the commission in 2009. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is responsible for ensuring that they are complied with by the member states and is empowered to impose sanctions on those who fail to fulfil the obligations imposed on them by virtue of their signature. a more efficient europe implies the active participation of citizens, who must be made aware of the need to lodge complaints when treaties are not respected, particularly in the area of the environment, and of all violations of fundamental rights, in order to avoid harmful consequences for citizens. however, there should be more transparency in the handling of citizens' complaints by continuous information on the progress of the complaints. an ever stronger eu means that each member state, individually, and all of us in general, must take responsibility. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report and call on all member states to observe scrupulously the treaties to which they are parties. only then will we have more and better europe.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to assess the application by member states of legislation adopted within the eu and whether or not there is a need for infringement proceedings against a member state which does not comply with the provisions of the treaty. the text therefore calls on the commission to propose a code of procedure to ensure greater respect for the rights of european citizens. it also called for greater cooperation between the eu institutions and national parliaments, especially when implementing community legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report assessing the commission's monitoring of the application of eu law in 2009. the commission has a key role as guardian of the treaties and in this area it can and should bring actions against member states which fail to comply with obligations imposed on them by the treaty. this report reiterates that the infringement procedure has two stages: the administrative (investigation) stage and the judicial stage, which is conducted by the court of justice. the role of citizens (complainants) in the administrative phase is noteworthy, where they can play a key role in ensuring compliance with european law. in fact, i believe that the objectives of bringing europe closer to its citizens and of introducing good governance techniques are intrinsically linked. i support the call in the report to propose a procedural law that strengthens citizens' rights and ensures greater transparency. this will undoubtedly contribute to the strengthening of an open, efficient and independent european administration as enshrined in articles 298 tfeu and 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu.
in writing. - the commission's role as guardian of the treaties is of prime importance in monitoring the application of community law. it is in this context that any problems which have arisen and the ways available for overcoming them should be diagnosed. the need for an active approach by this community body to prevent member states from breaching community law is thus underlined. as regards infringement proceedings, it is important to stress the need for them to be properly regulated in order to strengthen the procedural legitimacy of the commission's action and to safeguard the expectations of citizens as regards the correct application of community law. the need to coordinate the activities of the community institutions with those of the member states and their courts, as well as with those of european citizens themselves, who have the possibility of petitioning the european parliament, should also be stressed. all of these are ways of achieving better european integration.
in writing. - i approve. i am particularly pleased with the reference to a constitutional framework on transparency in the eu established by the treaty of lisbon. transparency has become a legally binding fundamental right of the citizen. i agree with the common rules for the classification of documents and with a proper balance between transparency and data protection.
in writing. − transparency is one of the fundamental pillars of participatory democracy, complementing representative democracy, with access to documents and information being one of the ways of ensuring citizens' participation in the democratic process, as well as preventing and combating corruption. with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, a new constitutional framework for institutional transparency in the eu was introduced, based on an open, effective and independent european administration, establishing a strong fundamental right of access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, so that decisions to refuse access to documents should be based on clearly and rigorously defined, reasonably explained and well-reasoned exceptions. this report argues that regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 should be revised in order to define and reduce the exceptions rigorously and to ensure that they do not undermine the transparency guaranteed by the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and that this revision should strengthen the right of access to documents. it also advocates the need to strike an appropriate balance between transparency and data protection. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that access to documents is a fundamental right. transparency is the general rule and has become a legally binding fundamental right of citizens with the lisbon treaty, so that all decisions to refuse access to documents should be based on clearly and rigorously defined, reasonably explained and well-founded exceptions, which enable citizens to understand the refusal and to make effective use of the available remedies. i believe that transparency is the best way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that transparency in public access to documents of the european institutions is an effective way of preventing corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement. i believe, however, that in justified cases, all decisions to refuse access to documents should be based on clearly and rigorously defined exceptions, which enable citizens to understand the refusal and to make effective use of other available channels for obtaining information.
in writing. the european union is built on the treaties, made up of states and at the service of the people. that is why the participation of women - and europeans - in the process of european integration is so essential. this is why the lisbon treaty also aims to simplify procedures, bring the language of the treaties closer to the citizen and strengthen transparency and public access to the institutions' documents. these mechanisms are fundamental and the key to an informed and participatory european democracy. for these intentions to be put into practice and for the european union to become truly close to europeans, transparent and accessible, there must be real access to documents, which safeguards the right of citizens to information without jeopardising the necessary confidentiality and protection of classified information.
in writing. − this report, by judith sargentini, deals with access to documents (rule 104 (7)) for the years 2009-2010. this is a document which was adopted last june by a significant majority. citizens' access to documents, which is a european prerogative under the rules of procedure and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, is not always as easy as it should be. there is still a lot to be done to make this consultation process more transparent. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the legislation is respected in all member states, which has already led to complaints being lodged with the european court of justice. obviously, we need to streamline this access. not all documents should be public, such as historical or confidential documents, which should be given special treatment. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's recommendations for a review of the existing legislation to facilitate access to documents by citizens and i welcome the commission's intention to improve the current legislation.
in writing. − transparency is an essential element of a participatory and representative democracy, as it allows citizens to participate in decision-making and exercise public control over it. it is recognised as the best way to prevent corruption, fraud and mismanagement. ensuring such transparency requires the fullest possible access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies for all. this rule cannot and should not be limited to documents linked to the legislative process, and the reasons for refusing access to a document should be as limited and clear as possible.
in writing. − in my view, transparency in public access to documents of the european institutions is a good way to prevent corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest and mismanagement. however, where the reasons for refusal of access to documents are justified, they should be based on clear and strictly defined exceptions, which enable citizens to understand the refusal and to make effective use of other available means of obtaining information.
in writing. − access to documents is a fundamental right of the european union post-lisbon. transparency is indeed the general rule and, with the lisbon treaty (and consequently, due to the fact that the charter of fundamental rights of the eu has acquired binding legal force), it has become a legally binding fundamental right of citizens, so that all decisions to refuse access to documents must be based on clearly and rigorously defined, reasonably explained and well founded exceptions, which enable citizens to understand the refusal and to use the available remedies effectively. i agree with the call for transparency at eu level to be reflected in the transposition of community legislation into national law by member states, inter alia through the establishment of matching frameworks and by building on best practices in the transparency of online parliamentary and government services (e-parliament and e-government). i voted in favour of this report because i also agree with the need to encourage the commission to maximise the transparency of the rules promoting public access to documents.
in writing. − transparency is an essential element of a participatory and representative democracy, as it allows citizens to participate in decision-making and exercise public control over it. it is recognised as the best way to prevent corruption, fraud and mismanagement. to ensure such transparency, it is essential that everyone has the fullest possible access to documents of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. this rule cannot and should not be limited to documents linked to the legislative process, and the reasons for refusing access to a document should be as limited and clear as possible.
in writing. − one of the fundamental guarantees citizens have in relation to public political bodies is the transparency of their actions. this requires that citizens be given subjective positions which enable them to exercise this right. in this sense, the possibility for european citizens to have access to union documents is assumed as a right which should only be restricted in particularly justified cases. in fact, only in this way can the citizens be sure that the solutions adopted are properly followed up, while at the same time strengthening the legitimacy of the action of public bodies in the eyes of all voters. the protection of public access to documents is therefore an aspect to which the european parliament, as the assembly of the representatives of the european citizens, cannot fail to be committed.
in writing. - this report, which is part of the better lawmaking debate, aims to create a framework for transparency, publicity, openness and access to documents of the european institutions and related bodies. in order to promote good governance and the participation of european citizens in the activities of the eu, as set out in article 15 tfeu, and in accordance with the principle of an open, efficient and independent administration, article 298, the european institutions undertake to make available legislative documents in progress under certain conditions, including the margin of reflection. open access to eu documents and information is essential to inform european citizens of the different processes taking place in the european institutions. the need for institutional openness, i.e. between the european institutions and agencies themselves, is also mentioned in order to establish a model of institutional transparency. i support the adoption of this report, stressing the need for interinstitutional transparency, since it is essential that the european parliament, as the representative of 500 million european citizens, should participate, together with the commission, in the negotiation of international agreements, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon, and thus be able to express its opinion.
in writing. - i approve the document. parliament's approval of the commission in february 2010 was based on an enhanced hearing process which ensured an open, fair and consistent assessment of the whole commission. however, in collaboration with the commission, it is still possible to draw conclusions from the approval process, in particular that amendments are necessary and desirable at a later stage. however, the code of conduct for commissioners, in particular its provisions on the financial statements of commissioners, needs to be revised in order to ensure the highest standards of governance for the european union.
in writing. - the purpose of this report, which i supported, is to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament, articles 106 and 192 respectively, and annex xvii, to include hearings of commissioners-designate for the european commission. these amendments to the rules of procedure strengthen the european parliament's powers in the process of choosing new european commissioners by providing, inter alia, for the possibility of a second hearing of the commissioners-designate, if necessary, and for the possibility for the president to ask the president-elect of the commission to inform parliament about the allocation of portfolios in the college of commissioners. the amendment will also increase transparency in the process of choosing new commissioners by providing for the live audiovisual broadcasting of hearings, so that european citizens can watch the hearings of the new commissioners live. finally, i would like to highlight the recommendation to the commission that the code of conduct for commissioners, and in particular the provisions on the financial declarations of interests of commissioners, should be revised in order to ensure the highest standards of governance for the european commission.
in writing. - i believe that the commission should review the code of conduct for commissioners, in particular the provisions of the code concerning the financial statements of commissioners, in order to ensure the highest standards of governance in the european union. i agree with the amendments in the report, considering that parliament's approval of the commission in february 2010 was based on an enhanced hearing process which ensured an open, fair and consistent assessment of the whole commission.
in writing. - in the light of the experience gained from the last hearings of the commissioners-designate, it appears necessary to make minor amendments to the rules of procedure in order to improve the procedure and make it more transparent. the amendments introduced are purely technical and allow for improvements in the way hearings are conducted, without introducing any substantive changes at political level. it is envisaged that a second and final hearing may be called if it becomes apparent during the course of the hearing that the examination of the commissioner-designate needs to be extended. the same is true of the aim of increasing transparency by providing for live audiovisual broadcasting of hearings. i also support the need for the commission to review the code of conduct for commissioners in order to ensure greater transparency and to ensure the highest standards of governance in the eu.
in writing. - mr duff has been outstanding for several legislatures for the way he seeks to study and develop institutional solutions that will improve the way the european union works and intensify the integration of its member states. i am not opposed to the amendments to parliament's rules of procedure which you advocate, given that they are aimed at strengthening the house's scrutiny of appointments to the college of commissioners and the levels of transparency and information with regard to commissioners-designate. that said, i would not like such an amendment to be understood as a licence to hold grilling sessions where, instead of rigorous assessments of their technical competence, the commissioners-designate are confronted with indiscriminate and inappropriate inquiries into their values, beliefs and personal life. it is up to parliament to live up to what is being proposed.
in writing. - every five years, during the european commission's term of office, the college of commissioners of the european union's executive body is appointed. under the lisbon treaty, the number of commissioners corresponds to the number of member states - currently 27 - and is approved by the european parliament in two stages: first, on a proposal from the european council, elect the president of the commission; the council shall, after consulting the president, examine the applications proposed by the council. the procedure for ep approval is governed by annex xvii to the rules of procedure and comprises the following steps: examination of curricula vitae and declarations of financial interests, reply to a set of written questions, a three-hour public hearing, evaluation by parliamentary committees and evaluation by the conference of presidents. this report, drawn up by andrew duff, suggests a number of minor amendments to the rules of procedure with regard to hearings of commissioners-designate. i welcome the amendments to the rules of procedure which have been tabled, as they make a significant contribution to improving the quality of our commissioners, and they will be of great benefit to the citizens of europe.
in writing. - the rules of procedure laying down the current rules for commissioners' hearings seem to me to be adequate, but they do require some adjustments, which are provided for in this amendment. the adjustments are intended to provide greater transparency and to improve procedures. the proposed amendments are purely technical and will improve the way in which hearings are conducted, without introducing any substantive changes at political level. i would point out that a second and final hearing may be called if it becomes apparent during the first hearing that it is necessary to extend the examination of the commissioner-designate.
in writing. - this report on the amendment of rules 106 and 192 and annex xvii to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, concerning the hearings of commissioners-designate, reflects the strengthening of the powers of the european parliament in its rules of procedure following the treaty of lisbon. the european commission is the government of the union and the european parliament cannot fail to exercise its power of scrutiny when it comes to the composition of that government. i agree with the procedure proposed for submitting two joint questions to each of the commissioners-designate, drawn up by the conference of committee chairmen: the first on matters of general competence, european commitment and personal independence and the second on the management of the portfolio and cooperation with parliament, with the committee responsible responsible responsible for drawing up three other questions, and the right for each committee to draw up two questions in the case of joint committees. the proposal to allocate the greater part of the time to the political groups seems to me appropriate. for all these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i vote in favour, as this resolution reiterates its full commitment to the multilateral trading system, puts the wto in the role of guarantor of a rules-based trading system and reiterates its full commitment to the achievement of the commitments of the doha development agenda. the council also stressed the need to resume discussions on the future functioning of the wto, with a possible reform of the multilateral negotiating system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new market opportunities, strengthening the rules on multilateral trade and correcting the current imbalances in the trading system, placing trade at the service of sustainable development, with particular emphasis on the economic integration of developing countries and in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), in the belief that a multilateral system, based on fairer and more equitable rules, can contribute to fair and free trade at the service of the development of all continents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the completion of the ongoing doha round negotiations can play an important role in ensuring a regulated trading system which contributes to a better management of globalisation through a fairer distribution of its benefits and respect for balanced economic growth.
in writing. − i believe that the doha round, which aims to create new market opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and correct the current imbalances in the trading system, is of fundamental importance not only for international trade but also for a more equitable sharing of the benefits of globalisation. it is therefore important that the doha development agenda takes account of that effect and makes a real contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. as the text of the resolution states, i also hope that the 8th wto ministerial conference, to be held in geneva from 15 to 17 december, will focus its objectives on the development issue, hoping to see the objectives set out in the 2011 doha ministerial declaration and the commitments made at the wto ministerial conference in hong kong in 2005 to support the least developed countries fulfilled.
in writing. − the doha round, launched in 2001, aimed to create new market opportunities, strengthen multilateral trade rules and correct the current imbalances in the trading system, placing it at the service of sustainable development, so as to contribute to fair and free trade that would enhance the development of the five continents. ministerial talks at the world trade organisation (wto) to conclude the doha round came to a standstill at the end of july 2008. however, some progress was made in early 2011, but it is not possible to conclude the negotiations before the end of 2011. given that the 8th wto ministerial conference will be held in geneva from 15 to 17 december 2011, i believe that the european parliament's representation should be a representative of the european parliament. i therefore wholeheartedly support the motion for a resolution tabled by mr vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade, following a statement by the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure.
in writing. the world trade organisation (wto) is one of the most important instruments of capitalist globalisation, with a key role in affirming (and enforcing) one of its pillars: the deregulation and liberalisation of international trade, to the benefit of the major economic groups of the major powers, creating new market opportunities for them (as the resolution makes clear). but also to force competition among the workforce, achieving greater availability of labor at lower cost. the rhetoric of multilateralism, which is often used by the supporters of the wto, does not hide the fact that the wto is a non-democratic organisation, because it is not representative and because it is actually contrary to the interests of the peoples. the fallacy of the fairer distribution of the benefits of globalisation that this organisation could provide is finally crumbling in the face of the obvious consequences of free trade: the destruction and relocation of productive activities and jobs, the attack on social and labour rights, the degradation of the environment and natural resources. this is the road to doha. it is a path that must be taken urgently in the interests of the workers and peoples of europe and the world. the system of world economic governance referred to in the resolution is nothing more than the government of capital, acting on a planetary scale in defence of its interests. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. - it is well known that the world trade organisation (wto) is one of the most important instruments of capitalist globalisation, with a key role in affirming (and imposing) one of its pillars: the deregulation and liberalisation of international trade, to benefit the major economic groups of the major powers by creating new market opportunities for them. but it also aims to force competition among the workforce by achieving greater availability of labour at lower cost. the rhetoric of multilateralism, which is often used by the supporters of the wto, does not hide the fact that the wto is an undemocratic organisation, because it is not representative and because it is contrary to the interests of the peoples. the obvious consequences of free trade are well known: the destruction and relocation of productive activities and jobs, the attack on social and labour rights, the degradation of the environment and natural resources. this is the road to doha. but in the interests of the workers and peoples of europe and the world, this course must be changed. the system of world economic governance referred to in the resolution is nothing more than the government of capital, acting on a planetary scale in defence of its interests. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of creating new market opportunities, strengthening the rules on multilateral trade and correcting the current imbalances in the trading system, placing trade at the service of sustainable development, with a particular emphasis on the economic integration of developing countries and in particular the least developed countries (ldcs), in the belief that a multilateral system, based on fairer and more equitable rules, can contribute to fair and free trade at the service of the development of all continents. we must therefore all continue to make efforts to ensure the success of the negotiations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the state of play of the negotiations on the doha development agenda, as i remain convinced that the objectives for 2001 are still relevant. these objectives were to create new market opportunities, strengthen the rules on multilateral trade and correct the current imbalances in the trading system, placing trade at the service of sustainable development, with particular emphasis on the economic integration of developing countries and in particular the least developed countries, in the belief that a multilateral system, based on fairer and more equitable rules, can contribute to fair and free trade at the service of the development of all continents. the timeliness of these aims is unequivocal, and it is not only symbolically that the european parliament approves this resolution, it approves it in order to convey to the world trade organisation the wishes of europeans and to contribute to the 8th ministerial conference in geneva, which will take place from 15 to 17 december 2011.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as it highlights the current shortcomings of the political decision-making process and the role of institutional actors. it also addresses the need for effective implementation of the lisbon treaty in relation to equal treatment between parliament and the council. it also makes good suggestions for better involvement of national parliaments, the technical adjustments needed to make rapid use of european citizens' initiatives and the reduction of administrative burdens without reducing the level of efficiency of services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of great importance to draw up simple, transparent, accessible and easily understandable legislation in order to safeguard the principle of transparency of european legislation and to ensure more effective application of it, as well as to ensure that eu citizens can exercise their rights more easily.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european institutions should contribute to the development of simple, transparent, accessible and easily understandable legislation, so that it can be applied more effectively and eu citizens can exercise their rights more easily.
in writing. - i fully support the idea that simple, transparent and understandable legislation is needed for european citizens. despite well-intentioned statements, rigorous studies and lucid reports from various institutions, the truth is that european legislation continues to suffer from the evils that are often pointed out to it: excessive volume, inadequate complexity, unintelligibility and referrals to prison. this can not only distract citizens from decisions taken at european level, but also contribute to the debate, which is not always very reasonable or rigorous, on european interference in matters on which it would not have to take a decision or legislate if the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality were more scrupulously observed.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, in his communication on political guidelines for the next commission, suggested turning the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs into the eu 2020 strategy, with the aim of promoting competitiveness and reducing administrative burdens through smart regulation. the programme's target of reducing administrative burdens by 25% by 2012 will be difficult to achieve without more commitment and action by all stakeholders, including the european institutions and the member states. the lisbon treaty has introduced some changes but so far has done very little for truly smart regulation. we must bear in mind that excessive legislation does not create wealth, but destroys jobs. i therefore welcome the proposals contained in this report, which i consider to be very sensible and a step in the right direction, and i hope that the measures referred to will be implemented as soon as possible, since what we need is less and better legislation.
in writing. - i agree with what is said in this report, which argues that the european institutions should contribute to the development of simple, transparent, accessible and easily understandable legislation. legislative excellence ensures effective enforcement of legislation, making it easier for eu citizens to exercise their rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on better regulation, subsidiarity and proportionality, and smart regulation. the smart regulation agenda has been integrated into the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by 2020, notably through the reduction of administrative burdens on businesses, which can be achieved by improving the quality and simplifying current eu legislation. this is a measure which, according to studies, will bring serious savings to businesses. in times of economic crisis, it is up to policy-makers to find all possible ways of rationalising costs, combating waste, while never neglecting quality. in this context, i agree with the european parliament's intention to keep a watchful eye on the commission's implementation of the smart regulation agenda.
in writing. − simple, transparent and accessible legislation is essential to ensure effective enforcement and to ensure citizens can exercise their rights. greater involvement and participation of the member states in the legislative process is an important step in this direction, especially in the context of verifying compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. the report points to a number of aspects that must be taken into account in order to improve legislation, namely less red tape, better use of consultation processes and legislative instruments, and better assessment of the impact of legislation, in order to meet those fundamental principles.
in writing. - i vote in favour. it should be noted that since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, to which is added the weight of the legally binding charter of fundamental rights, the institutions have new responsibilities to which we must remain vigilant. i would like to highlight, for example, the european citizens' initiative, a new instrument of participatory democracy which is important to exploit.
in writing. − the committee on petitions informed parliament about its activities in 2010 and this information shows a breakdown in the number of petitions compared to the previous year. i would like the citizens of the member states, and particularly those of my country, to make more frequent use of the opportunity to alert the european parliament to the problems they are facing, so that the importance of the european dimension of citizenship and the capacity of the institutions to respond to the concrete problems of the people becomes increasingly evident. i acknowledge the work already done by the committee on petitions and by parliament's services in receiving and processing petitions on petitioned subjects and i hope that this quality will continue to improve in the years to come.
in writing. − this report, by willy meyer, covers the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010 and aims to give an overview of the relevant developments in this field during the year. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, european citizens have been granted the right to petition the european parliament, a pillar of citizenship and a fundamental right (article 227 of the new treaty). this report, together with a set of statistics, covers the relations between the committee on petitions and other european institutions, in particular national and regional authorities. it is the commission of the european parliament with the greatest dynamism, because it is the one that gives voice to the european citizens. most of the time, it is the members themselves who are the spokesmen for citizens' complaints and grievances. many problems that have taken time to resolve have now been resolved in this commission. it is no coincidence that the topics most frequently addressed are those relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market. i welcome the excellent work done by the rapporteur and i welcome the results achieved by this commission.
in writing. − this report on the activities of the committee on petitions of the european parliament gives us an overview of the work of this committee and gives a precise and complete picture of its work, presenting a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee or on the countries or issues concerned, constituting an important quantitative tool in evaluating its work. the annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market. as the report states, other petitioners seek to make their proposals for the implementation of union policies heard and others still address the european parliament to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against judgments of national courts. but most of them complain of shortcomings in the application of european legislation, either because of faulty transposition of legislation, or because of non-application of community rules, or because of violation of them. the report now presented and adopted is also undoubtedly a useful element in the development of parliamentary work in its many aspects.
in writing. − this report gives an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions and provides a precise and complete picture of its work, presenting a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee or on the countries or issues concerned, and constituting an important quantitative tool in evaluating its work. the annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market. as the report states, other petitioners seek to make their proposals for the implementation of union policies heard and others still address the european parliament to challenge decisions taken by national authorities and to appeal against judgments of national courts. but most of them complain of shortcomings in the application of european legislation, either because of faulty transposition of legislation, or because of non-application of community rules, or because of violation of them. according to statistics, in 2010 the european parliament received 1 655 petitions, a decrease of 14% compared to 1 924 petitions submitted in 2009.
in writing. − the 2010 annual report aims to provide an overview of the activities of the committee on petitions, whose calendar of activities does not revolve around the european commission's legislative programme but is rather established by citizens in the exercise of their right to petition the european parliament. the annual activity report aims to provide a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions by presenting a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the commission or on the countries or issues concerned, and is an important quantitative tool in evaluating the work of the committee. this picture is complemented by other aspects, such as relations with the other european institutions, national and regional authorities, or institutional changes with direct effects on the work of the committee on petitions. finally, the report examines the progress made in implementing previous recommendations aimed at improving the work of this committee.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2010. the committee on petitions' calendar of activities does not revolve around the union's legislative programme but is rather established by citizens in the exercise of their right to petition the european parliament. this is the picture that the annual report offers, a complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions, presenting a series of statistics on the number of petitions received, closed or dealt with by the committee or on the countries or issues concerned, constituting an important quantitative tool in evaluating the work of the committee. the report also examines the progress made in implementing previous recommendations aimed at improving the work of this committee. i agree with the need to forge closer cooperation with counterpart committees of the regional and national parliaments of the member states in order to promote mutual understanding of petitions on european issues and to gain insight into the different working methods of national committees on petitions so that the committee on petitions of the ep is in a position to make an informed decision if a petition needs to be rejected on grounds of competence.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, as this resolution is intended to put pressure on the commission to come up with a comprehensive european union strategy for the homeless, underpinned by national and regional strategies, with the long-term objective of ending homelessness in the wider framework of social inclusion. it is very important that the requirements of this resolution are implemented, namely the collection of data on the eu's homeless; the inclusion of clear targets, an integrated approach covering all relevant policy areas, good governance, adequate data collection, an appropriate housing policy, the need to take account of the potential changing profile of the homeless and in particular to consider the impact of migration; and the introduction of esf and erdf budgetary allocations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support an ambitious eu strategy to solve the problem of homelessness in the medium term, within the framework of european social inclusion policies. i would remind you that the problem of homelessness is still a reality in all the member states, which is an unacceptable violation of human dignity.
in writing. - throughout europe, people live on the streets in undignified conditions, exposed to the elements and the cruelty of the societies in which we live. the designation "homeless" euphemistically replaces the more crude terms "beggar" and "vagabond" that were once used to describe people who descended into similar states of destitution. rather than devise major european strategies to put an end to this scourge, i believe that global thinking must be accompanied by local action. and for this, no one is better than the social solidarity institutions, which are already active on the ground, really know the concrete people, are beyond statistics and can identify the best ways to guide them to a better life. without abandoning its programmes and studies and measures on this subject, the european union should seek to act wherever possible through the institutions already active on the ground.
in writing. − the existence of homelessness is not a new situation, having its origins in the current economic and financial crisis. they've always been there. we used to see them sleeping in subway stations, under bridges, in building entrances, in run-down buildings, etc. the present crisis has only exacerbated a situation which is deplorable in social terms and degrading in human terms. if a few decades ago they were people with drug addiction, alcoholism, bohemian beggars, today, with the worsening of economic and financial conditions, in particular the high interest rates that prevent many citizens from being able to meet their obligations to the banks, the paradigm has changed. we found young people, women, families! and in the face of this situation, the states remain passive. at most, they are driven from the city centers to the outskirts so as not to be seen by tourists or near the financial centers. we all have an obligation to protect the weak. member states, with the eu's assistance through the european social fund, have a duty to minimise this violation of the charter of fundamental human rights, which enshrines the end of homelessness. in these terms, i wholeheartedly support this motion for a resolution which seeks to implement a strategy for the homeless whose existence we should be ashamed of.
in writing. the resolution proposes a european strategy for the homeless one of the most serious social problems and extreme poverty in the european union that urgently needs to be solved. the existence of homeless people is an unacceptable violation of fundamental human rights - the kind of rights that the eu always boasts of being a reference space, arrogantly giving lessons to whomever it sees fit. it is therefore essential to give priority to actions promoting social inclusion to ensure that no one sleeps on the streets and that even their eventual move to temporary accommodation is limited to the time strictly necessary to provide them with a decent accommodation, a home of their own. we welcome the fact that the majority of parliament has supported this resolution, insisting with the commission on the development of an ambitious strategy for the homeless and on supporting member states in the development of effective national strategies, including support from community funds to finance housing projects for marginalised groups. but above all, it is essential that profound changes are made to the current policies that have led to this situation, ensuring jobs with rights, quality public services, dignified reforms and minimum conditions to pay for decent housing, including water, energy and sanitation.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution which aims to achieve a european strategy for the homeless, as it is one of the most serious social problems and extreme poverty in the european union which urgently needs to be solved. the problem of homelessness is an unacceptable violation of fundamental human rights and it is essential to give priority to actions promoting social inclusion to ensure that no one sleeps on the street and that even their eventual passage through temporary accommodation is limited to the time strictly necessary to provide them with a decent accommodation, their own housing. we welcome the fact that the majority of parliament has supported this resolution, insisting with the european commission on the development of an ambitious strategy for the homeless and supporting member states in the development of effective national strategies, including support from community funds to finance housing projects for marginalised groups in the member states where necessary. but above all, it is essential that there be changes in current policies, particularly in the economic, financial and social areas, to ensure employment with rights, quality public services, dignified reforms and the ability to pay for decent housing, including water, energy, sanitation, etc.
in writing. − homelessness is one of the most extreme forms of poverty and deprivation, and this phenomenon has worsened in several eu member states. this has been a clear priority in the eu's social inclusion process. thus, eu-wide coordination of policies for the homeless, under the open method of coordination on social protection and social inclusion, has in the last decade enriched and added value to efforts at national, regional and local level, and this work needs to be leveraged in a more strategic approach. the ambitious targets of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to lift at least 20 million people out of situations of risk of poverty and exclusion by 2020, give new impetus to the fight against all forms of poverty and social exclusion, including the exclusion of the homeless.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 14 september 2011 on an eu strategy for the homeless, as i consider it vital that this issue has a transnational approach. indeed, the eu's homelessness strategy must fully respect the lisbon treaty, which establishes the essential role and broad discretion of national, regional and local authorities to provide, commission and organise services of general economic interest in a way that meets as much as possible the needs of users. in this context, it is up to member states to define their mission to provide social housing at moderate cost, and the eu strategy for the homeless should be fully compatible with member states' social housing policy, which legally enshrines the principle of combating social segregation. i join the call for the european union agency for fundamental rights to pay more attention to the implications of extreme poverty and social exclusion in terms of access to and enjoyment of fundamental rights, taking into account that the right to housing is a necessary condition for the enjoyment of a whole range of other rights, including political and social rights.
in writing. - i vote in favour. in an effort to mitigate the consequences of climate change, european policy in this area has focused on reducing co2 emissions in the long term. eu policy lacks a comprehensive approach in the area of climate-relevant anthropogenic emissions. it is also important to make better use of existing technologies and other instruments such as the montreal protocol, bilateral agreements, etc. to complement our efforts against climate change. relevant policy options include slowing down the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons with global warming potential, reducing black carbon emissions, paying particular attention to emissions affecting snow and ice regions, including the arctic, greenland and tibetan himalayan glaciers, and reducing pollutant gases that lead to the formation of tropical ozone.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on a comprehensive approach to climate-relevant non-anthropogenic co2 emissions, which should take into account all sources, as well as all existing global warming mitigation options, such as reducing the production and consumption of hydrochlorofluorocarbons, reducing black carbon emissions and gases that lead to the formation of tropospheric ozone.
in writing. − at a time when the debate on greenhouse gas emissions has become unavoidable and when maintaining the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives is unsustainable, it is important that more environmentally friendly and equally reliable energy alternatives are found. it is also essential that europe finds, within the eu2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote sustainable and greener growth. green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to community objectives.
in writing. - in recent times we have seen several atmospheric disasters, such as the fukushima tsunami, cyclones in the caribbean sea, long periods of drought on the african continent which cause thousands of victims due to malnutrition, etc. situations like these force us to reflect on the causes of climate change on a global scale. in fact, there is a lack of integrated policies to control emissions of polluting gases such as co2, chlorofluorocarbons, black carbon, etc., both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states. in addition, some of the measures implemented have not had the expected effect, such as the directive on improving air quality. if we do not take strong measures, such as the directive on the reduction of emissions from air conditioning, we will hardly be able to meet the objectives set for 2050. in the light of the above, i welcome the commission's intention to review other regulations and i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, tabled following a question for oral answer on a comprehensive approach to climate-relevant anthropogenic co2 emissions, drawn up by mr richard seeber and mr theodoros skylakakis on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. the resolution addresses the relevant problem of anthropogenic emissions of gases into the atmosphere, other than carbon dioxide, which are likely to interfere with the earth's climate. the almost exclusive focus on carbon dioxide has helped to obscure, both in public perception and at the level of policy initiative, the reality that other compounds can contribute to the so-called greenhouse effect. this attention is certainly instrumental in enabling so-called market solutions, such as the carbon market, and feeding the powerful interests that are emerging to dominate this business further. this resolution undoubtedly has this merit: to draw attention to the consequences of other pollutants and to the need to take measures to control them. methane (ch4), nitrous oxide (n2o), hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs), perfluorocarbons (pfcs), sulphur hexafluoride (sf6), halogenated hydrocarbons with a high global warming potential, black carbon (fuel) are some of these pollutants. the reference, however shy, to solutions other than market solutions (and their positive results) is equally important and should be valued. as well as the reference to the misuse of the kyoto protocol flexibility mechanisms such as the clean development mechanism (cdm). for these reasons we voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - it is a resolution with positive aspects and some contradictions. but the truth is that there are many human-made atmospheric emissions that can interfere with the earth's climate, and the european union's approach to climate change has been focused almost exclusively on carbon dioxide. this is not unrelated to the fact that this compound was chosen for the assembly of a scheme to generate billions of fictitious financial assets through the so-called carbon market. however, where they have been tried, so-called market solutions do not demonstrate their claimed virtuosity. on the contrary, these solutions have proved to be ineffective and perverse. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental protection of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental protection law, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental policy, and the introduction of a new environmental policy.
in writing. − climate policies at european and international level have been focusing on long-term co2 emission reductions through, for example, increased energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and other low-carbon strategies. a comprehensive european climate policy, which can benefit from the weighting of all existing sources of warming and mitigation options, as well as from taking into account co2 emission reductions, should focus on strategies that allow for the fastest possible climate response. the eu should therefore promote existing technologies that drastically reduce black carbon emissions by adopting regulations that ban forest fires and provide for regular and rigorous testing of vehicle emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution in which parliament points out to the european commission, among other things, that rapid regulatory strategies are available to reduce the production and consumption of hydrochlorofluorocarbons and to reduce emissions of black carbon and of the gases which lead to the formation of tropospheric ozone. these strategies can be started within 2-3 years and, to a large extent, can be implemented within 5-10 years, which may produce the desired climate reaction within decades or sooner, in particular for some of the hydrofluorocarbons, at a public price of only 5 to 10 cents per tonne, whereas the carbon price currently exceeds 13 euros per tonne. the european parliament, faced with a race against time, urges the commission to inform it of any steps it may take to introduce new combat options into the process quickly so that lost time can be made up.
on behalf of the s&d group. we hope in this parliament that the conflict in libya is close to an end. the brave libyan people deserve that the suffering caused by 42 years of brutal dictatorship and six months of war will give way to a free and democratic country. to do that, gaddafi and his henchmen must be found and brought to justice. the european union, which has been present in benghazi since early may, was quick to raise its flag in tripoli as soon as the capital was liberated. it should also now swiftly unfreeze the libyan assets referred to, under the supervision of the security council, and seek to identify other financial resources diverted by the gaddafi regime so that they do not fuel the destabilisation of the country and to ensure their return to the libyan authorities. the high representative for foreign affairs and the european external action service must respond swiftly to libyan requests for assistance in the interim governance and transition to democracy, ensuring the necessary coordination between member states so that national agendas do not overlap with a coherent political strategy of the union itself. it is also to leave no doubt about the european union's respect for the sovereignty of the libyan people and to make possible the coordinating role of the united nations in coordinating the various international contributions to the process of economic and institutional reconstruction in libya. the immediate priority for promoting security and reconciliation in libya will certainly have to be the disarmament and social and professional reintegration of civilians who have been forced to take up arms. the european union can offer its experience and play a major role in the disarmament, demobilization and reintegration effort and thus in supporting security sector reform, as well as in preparing constitutional and electoral processes, building the justice system and institutional capacity building of civil society itself. the credibility of a libyan interim government will depend above all on its ability to fulfil its promises to build a democratic state that respects the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all citizens - libyans as well as foreigners - and in particular the migrants who suffered so much under gaddafi and who have continued to suffer until now, often being unjustly accused of being mercenaries in the service of gaddafi just because of the colour of their skin. we therefore welcome the recent declarations by the president of the national transitional council, jalil, in tripoli, announcing that libya will be a moderate muslim country, and we hope that this will mean that sharia, enshrined in a first constitutional declaration as the primary source of law, will be interpreted in such a way as to ensure full respect for the rule of law and human rights, especially for women and migrants. we hope in this parliament that the transitional government will lead the process of national reconciliation and, within this framework, ensure the participation of women and young people in all political and economic decision-making bodies. we europeans must learn the necessary lessons from our past in libya, as a bad example of policy, or rather, of the lack of foreign policy, through the collaboration of various european governments with the gaddafi regime, whether by exchanging terrorists for oil contracts, or selling arms and outsourcing torture in the framework of the cia's rendition programme. we need a new european foreign policy based on european values and principles and responding to the clear wishes of the libyan people and of all those in the southern mediterranean, in the various tahrir squares, who are crying out for freedom and dignity.
the arab spring is surely the most important world event of the year. and so i would like to join in the proposal to award the sakharov prize to this revolutionary process. that gesture would have, and will have, undeniable symbolic value. the european union and its governments have for years been accomplices of the dictatorial regimes that have suppressed the aspirations for freedom in the arab world. since then, on this side of the mediterranean, business has always been preferred to freedom, the repression of migration flows to respect for human rights, and even silence to denunciation. it's time for change, and the question is do we really want to change, or do we just want to look like we've changed? in libya, the defense of civilian casualties has turned into a nato-sponsored regime change air war. the military action of this organization, led by paris and london, has misused and distorted the very mandate of the united nations. the abuse is so blatant that military action is now continuing, despite minimal grants for resistance. nato bombs do not ensure the safety of the revolution that has arrived in tripoli. nato bombs, at this point, are widening the scope of business that the rebuilding of infrastructure will provide to the different governments involved in the war. some are very concerned about the prospecting contracts that total may acquire. my concerns are other. i would like the national transitional council to clearly uphold the commitments it has announced on national reconciliation and respect for human rights, in particular women's and immigrants' rights, and europe must support them in this priority. every spring comes to its autumn, even in libya. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter. the first priority is the right one at the moment. on the other hand, in libya, it was not just gaddafi's forces and nato planes that killed civilians. there were also unworthy acts committed in the camp of the insurrection. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. our support for democratic movements must be genuine. we must leave it to the peoples to determine their own destinies, and europe's role is not one of interference or double standards. we cannot condemn the repression in syria and silence it in bahrain. we can't boycott oil in syria and accept it in yemen. we must not accept boycotts which harm the people. and that is exactly how and only in this way the arab spring will be, because it will be the work of the arabs themselves.
the fact that this was a real massacre unleashed by nato and its major powers on the libyan people leaves us with cause for concern. five months of bombing, thousands of innocent civilians killed, infrastructure and social facilities destroyed, a country in ruins - this is the inconvenient truth that those who are already plundering the country's resources and the lucrative business of reconstruction are trying to hide. at the same time as they distribute libya's oil and other natural resources, they are preparing to rebuild, at the expense of the libyan people and the country's sovereign funds, what they have destroyed. the libyan people have been and are being the victims of a flagrant violation of international law, the un charter and the very security council resolution 1973 which hypocritically referred to the protection of civilians. the same civilians on whom nato dropped its humanitarian bombs. but as reality has already shown in other situations, the peoples of the world have responded to the aggressions and wars of american and european imperialism by resisting and fighting for peace, freedom, their sovereignty and taking their destiny into their own hands.
mr president, the recognition of the state of palestine in the pre-1967 borders, including east jerusalem, the recognition of it as a full member of the united nations is a direct and legitimate consequence of the principles enshrined since 1947 in all relevant united nations resolutions. almost two decades after the signing of the oslo accords, and despite all the condemnations, the israeli occupation of the palestinian territories is consolidating and advancing. in the face of the repeated boycott of a just solution in accordance with international law by the israeli authorities, serious threats are looming over the possibility of resolving the conflict. in this context, the recognition of palestine as a full member of the united nations will be the most relevant and consequential contribution by the international community to the effective implementation of the two-state principle, which was established 64 years ago and has never been implemented.
mr president, we have discussed the middle east peace process, but is there any process under way that i have missed? i'm afraid not the european union, like the majority of the international community, has repeatedly called for the existence of two peoples and two states sharing the space between the jordan river and the mediterranean, which have the right to aspire to live in peace and security. but without dialogue between the parties, and in the midst of a build-up of hatred and misunderstanding that has lasted for 63 years, only extremism and frustration are fuelled. it is essential that europe and the arab league become much more involved in the search for a negotiated solution to the borders, based on the 1967 borders, with the exchanges allowing the majority of jewish settlements to remain in israel. the question of jerusalem, the holy city, the future capital of the two states, should be clarified and accepted by both sides as a symbol of peaceful coexistence between two peoples who have the obligation to fulfil the prophecy of isaiah, that it is a land of milk and honey. that all the countries of the region should participate in the solution of the palestinian refugee question and that the international community, and in particular the arab nation, should participate in the necessary financial compensation. it is also absolutely essential that a military force, under the auspices of the un and with the participation of american and islamic forces among others, be deployed on the ground to ensure the maintenance of peace. so let there be courage and political will.
the supply of german-made submarines to portugal and greece is a glaring example of the web of corruption at european level which has contributed decisively not only to the breach of the internal market rules but also to the crisis of public finances in the latter two countries. this is proof that effective measures to combat corruption at european level are urgently needed. the crisis we are facing and the heavy sacrifices we are demanding as a result from citizens, especially in countries under financial rescue programmes requires a serious effort at national and european level in the fight against corruption, fraud, tax evasion and the impunity of the corrupt and the corrupters. the commission and the council must therefore recognise that the memoranda of understanding signed by portugal, ireland and greece for financial assistance offer numerous opportunities for corruption, especially in privatisations and the renegotiation of public-private partnerships. the european commission thus has a particular responsibility to give visibility to the fight against corruption and to give priority to it in these programmes, in particular for countries under financial assistance programmes, but in general because it weighs on the budgets of states, on the pockets of taxpayers, on the functioning of companies and the internal market, on mutual trust between member states and on the trust of citizens in the european union itself. the commission needs to make urgent progress on harmonising measures for the protection of whistleblowers and the criminalisation of illicit enrichment in all member states, in line with the recommendations of the united nations convention against corruption. we need to impose transparency and control at european level on financial transactions, especially for tax havens, inside and outside the european union, and european consultation in the negotiation of agreements with offshore jurisdictions to ensure information sharing. the commission and eurojust should establish faster and more efficient mechanisms for judicial cooperation to speed up, to ensure that evidence, documents and information are exchanged between member states and thus to speed up the processing of cases under investigation or trial in order to ensure that corrupt persons and perpetrators are effectively punished. and in saying this i am basing myself on the ineffective and time-consuming way in which judicial cooperation between portugal and germany has worked, precisely in the investigations into corruption in the case of the german submarines sold to portugal. this communication from the commission is welcome, but it must be translated into practical measures immediately, as recommended by parliament in the resolution under consideration.
president vidal-quadras, minister miller, commissioner malmström, i too feel that there is a common cause in this debate, the fight against corruption, for the reasons already invoked by monica macovei here - social, economic and political reasons. i think i have heard countries being singled out in this debate. and i see documents in which it is spoken in greece, in bulgaria, in italy, in romania... but the truth is that there is not a single country in the european union that is not affected by the scourge of corruption. several speakers have spoken on the question of cost. in fact, it is shocking that the annual cost of corruption can be anything like the overall value of the european union budget. i therefore congratulate commissioner malmström on the anti-corruption package of 6 june, which in my view represents a step forward in the fight against corruption. i was very pleased to hear our commissioner say that laws are not enough. what is needed is political will and zero tolerance. and i was also pleased to hear you say that it is important to point out the member states which are the least quick to transpose or implement these measures, and that this will be reflected in the reports. we know that there are already very strict legal frameworks in place, but the truth is that their application at member state level is very different. finally, commissioner, you are also right when you say that it is necessary to maintain and improve police and judicial cooperation, and i would add that the european agencies must also cooperate in this respect.
mr president, commissioner, the hunger and despair that are growing in the horn of africa have their common causes, which are always mentioned: the severe drought and internal conflicts. but they also have, in addition to these, deeper causes, almost always hidden. take the example of somalia. the collapse of agricultural and pastoral infrastructure in the 1980s is inseparable from the interventions of the imf and the world bank. the urban population has seen its purchasing power drastically reduced, social programmes have been severely affected. debt and debt service, that permanent stick, quickly reached unbearable levels, and the imf loan was canceled due to late payments. state stocks of grain and mechanisms for fixing prices for agricultural products on local markets have been replaced by a world market dominated by agribusiness multinationals and speculators. prices are now set on the chicago stock exchange. economic and social disaster has given way to civil war, to the so-called failed state, to foreign military intervention. it was the us support for the invasion of ethiopia, the saudi support for the islamist group, the recurring air strikes. because somalia has oil too! humanitarian aid to the region is urgently needed. not the self-interested outside interventionism. but the discourse of compassion and compassion cannot hide the understanding of these causes and the fair allocation of responsibilities - a fundamental step towards a lasting resolution of the humanitarian drama that is being lived out there.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we know but not everyone knows that noncommunicable diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory diseases and diabetes kill 3 out of every 5 people in the world every year. we also know that these diseases are responsible for 86% of deaths in europe. what we also know, in addition, is that the people who are most affected by these diseases and suffer most from them are those who have low or middle incomes. and that is why it is an evidence for all of us that these diseases not only affect the quality of life of the affected citizens, but also cause enormous socioeconomic damage. we are, after all, talking about an epidemic. in europe, cardiovascular disease and cancer are the first and second leading causes of death respectively. every year that passes, more than 3 million new cases of cancer are diagnosed, and we estimate that by 2025, 29 million people will be affected by diabetes. it is in this context that it is so important that this united nations summit takes place, that it is so important that concrete measures are taken and that we move from statements to concrete actions, that the european commission and the member states really commit themselves to measures to prevent and combat these diseases. i am very pleased that the strategy presented by the commissioner is based on prevention as the cornerstone of the united nations' involvement. i am pleased with the high-level representation we will have in the presence of the commissioner. but i also ask you to bear in mind that this strategy of combating crime must be a just one and must be appropriate to the reality and the needs of the population. and i would ask you, commissioner, to come back and tell us what measures the european union will take to implement the decisions that will come out of the united nations summit.
madam president, i voted in this house in favor of a no-fly zone over libya that would be mandated by international law, by the united nations. so between the revolution in the arab countries and the dictatorships in the arab countries, between a revolution that was brewing and the massacre that was about to happen in benghazi, i know exactly where i stand. and i would have no problem voting in favour of this resolution, which has some important elements, for example, calling on the cnt forces to refrain from any kind of retaliation, for example against black africans who have suffered retaliation from the cnt or, for example, calling on the european union to end the co-decision on resettlement and to bring in the refugees who are today in tunisia. but there are two things in this resolution that prevent me from voting for it, two things that have fallen. one that urged the cnt to be more transparent in its dealings with europe. and another, above all, a paragraph in this resolution which spoke of all the complicity that countries like belgium, portugal, bulgaria, france, germany or italy had had with the gaddafi regime by selling weapons to the gaddafi regime. europe cannot think that this is the occasion to wipe out its past complicity with gaddafi, because libya's past cannot be erased and by erasing libya's past we cannot help build a democratic future in that country.
in writing. - i welcome the document as it gives the republic of moldova an opportunity to become the success story of eu policy towards its neighbours and as it gives impetus to the implementation of the necessary reforms in the country.
in writing. - as i have said before, given the impact of the current economic and financial crisis on moldova and the path of convergence with the union that the country is seeking to follow, i believe that the european option of providing support to moldova is the right one. solidarity with those in the european neighbourhood policy should not be allowed to overshadow the need for the european union to monitor properly the use made of the aid provided, which is more than enough reason for parliament to make its recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations on the eu-moldova association agreement. without ignoring the difficulties that arise, it is fair to highlight the way in which moldova is converging with the union on a wide range of issues and how, in compliance with the more for more principle, it will be able to benefit more from the european neighbourhood policy than other neighbouring countries. i hope that moldova will continue along the path already traced, that the association agreement will be concluded and that the effects of its entry into force will serve as an incentive for the other states in the region.
in writing. − this report, by graham watson, sets out the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations between the european union and the republic of moldova on the association agreement, which is intended to be comprehensive and aimed at deepening relations over the coming years. the eu has strengthened its political and economic relations with moldova, notably through the partnership and cooperation agreement on moldova's participation in community programmes and agencies. under the european neighbourhood policy, and more specifically the eu-moldova joint action plan, moldova has been implementing political, economic and institutional reforms with a view to its rapprochement with the eu and future integration. i therefore vote in favour of these recommendations, which are aimed at supporting the reforms under way in this country, while at the same time calling for respect for human rights, the adoption of anti-discrimination legislation, the reform of the judicial system and the protection of the environment through its participation in the strategy for the danube region and i hope that in the not too distant future the republic of moldova will be part of the eu.
in writing. − the new philosophy of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), which, in accordance with the 'more for more' principle, aims to give priority to those countries which prove most effective in meeting its requirements, provides the republic of moldova with an opportunity to become the success story of the eu's policy towards its neighbours. the european union has made human rights and democracy a central aspect of its european neighbourhood policy. thus, in the enp, the eastern partnership has created a significant policy framework for deepening relations, accelerating the political association process and strengthening economic integration between the eu and the republic of moldova, linked by strong geographical, historical and cultural links, supporting political and socio-economic reforms to this end. i welcome the republic of moldova's progressive cooperation in the ongoing negotiations on the association agreement and on the various elements of cooperation, including foreign and security policy, energy cooperation, human rights and trade, which has allowed most of the negotiation chapters to be successfully concluded within the timeframe envisaged.
in writing. − the active involvement of the republic of moldova and its commitment to common values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, including those of minorities, have been considered essential to advance the process and to ensure the success of the negotiations and the subsequent implementation of the association agreement, which should be tailored to the country's needs and capabilities and have a sustainable impact on its development. i agree with the conclusion of this agreement as it represents a development desired by the people of the republic of moldova towards progress that will bring them greater well-being and quality of life. i believe that the european parliament's monitoring role is positive and therefore i agree that the eu negotiating team is encouraged to continue its good cooperation with parliament by systematically reporting on progress made, in accordance with the tfeu, which provides that parliament must be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the process.
in writing. - i approve the document because it welcomes the end of the six-month conflict in libya and the fall of the 42-year autocratic regime of muammar gaddafi, which was responsible for the long and terrible suffering of the libyan people. it also congratulated the libyan people on their courage and determination and stressed that the free and sovereign aspirations of the libyan people must be the driving force behind the transition process, since only strong local ownership will ensure its success.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya because i believe that the european union must support the building of a democratic and pluralistic state in which human rights, in particular women's rights, are guaranteed.
in writing. - the convulsions in muslim countries are taking place in a context of increasing multipolarity, with the emergence of new global actors with economic power and political attractiveness. there is no complete clarity as to what will result from the present revolutions in the middle east, namely whether democracy or islamic fundamentalism will prevail. as the gaddafi regime crumbles and is reduced to small enclaves of resistance, the importance of the national transitional council in shaping what will be the new libya becomes increasingly clear. the european union is a keen observer of developments in libya and cannot exclude itself from the international effort to help rebuild the country and reintegrate it into the international community.
in writing. the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution focuses on the political situation in libya, where the opponents of the regime of dictator gaddafi have managed to free the country from a dictatorship lasting almost 50 years. throughout this process, the european union stood by the libyan people, assisting those most in need - notably the refugee flows towards egypt and tunisia - taking restrictive measures to bring about gaddafi's surrender, and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy participating in several contact meetings. in recent weeks the situation has changed significantly and it is now essential to restore public services and start the process of democratic transition. i welcome the overwhelming approval - 584 votes in favour, 18 against and 18 abstentions - of this motion for a resolution, especially since it was adopted on the eve of the extraordinary summit of the 27, with a view to recognizing the national transitional council and creating a no-fly zone to put an end to the massacre of the libyan people by troops still loyal to colonel gaddafi.
in writing. - the majority of parliament is celebrating with this resolution an act of aggression against an independent and sovereign country, in violation of international law, the charter of the united nations and un security council resolution 1973 itself, which it once hypocritically supported on the pretext of imposing a no-fly zone. it celebrates its usual hypocrisy in defending human rights with absolute silence on the massacres perpetrated by nato and its allies in the region against the libyan people, causing thousands of deaths and the destruction of important infrastructure, basic health services, basic sanitation and others. if there were any doubts about the purposes of this aggression, here are the statements of the main leaders of the eu and nato powers, revealing that this war was aimed solely at satisfying their strategic interests in controlling important natural resources, plundering libyan sovereign funds and imposing their dominance in the region. gaddafi has been removed from office, the so-called rebels have been enthroned in tripoli by nato. in the quagmire of capitalism's crisis, wars and aggression continue to be a weapon of the system. struggle and resistance are the weapons of the workers and the people.
in writing. the majority of the ep is celebrating this resolution as an act of aggression against an independent and sovereign country, in violation of international law, the un charter and un security council resolution 1973, which it hypocritically supported in the past, under the pretext of imposing a no-fly zone. it is the usual hypocrisy in the defence of human rights, with an absolute silence in relation to the massacres perpetrated by nato and its allies in the region against the libyan people, causing thousands of deaths and the destruction of important infrastructure and basic services of good quality. and so that there is no doubt about the purposes of this aggression, here are the statements of the main leaders of the eu and nato powers to recognize that this war of invasion and occupation of libya was aimed at satisfying their strategic interests: control of important natural resources, plunder of libyan sovereign funds and imposition of their domination in the region. in the quagmire of capitalism's crisis, wars and aggression continue to be a weapon of the system. struggle and resistance are the weapons of the workers and the people.
in writing. - what is happening in libya is completely unacceptable and the international community must take more concrete action, which will result in an immediate halt to all types of aggression against civilian populations. the libyan civil war is a worrying one and must end at all costs. the eu must lead this process and help find solutions to prevent the escalation of the conflict currently taking place in that country.
in writing. - i cannot but regret that the follow-up given to the libyan people has not been more rapid, unanimous and effective. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the high representative and vice-president, the european commission and the eu member states, in cooperation with neighbouring countries, to assist in the reform of libya's security sector, including the police and armed forces, the disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration (ddr) of former combatants, and the strengthening of border control and arms trafficking, and expresses particular concern at the large number of weapons in the possession of combatants and civilians, which endangers the lives of the population, especially vulnerable groups such as women and children.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that all the relevant international instruments are in place to combat terrorism. the un estimates that more than 2,600 people may have been killed, many more injured, and thousands arrested. the minimum that is required, and this proposal also suggests it, is the sending of an independent international commission of inquiry to investigate human rights violations in syria, which may constitute crimes against humanity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria because i believe that the european union must support the democratic aspirations of the syrian people in their struggle for human rights and fundamental freedoms and must continue the restrictive measures against the syrian regime so that the violence comes to an immediate end.
in writing. - those who have been following developments in syria for some time will remember how the transfer of power from hafez al-assad to his son bashar was met with a mixture of hope and scepticism by international observers. unfortunately, we are witnessing a regime that has been seriously damaged in its internal and external credibility. in the face of the violence which has already claimed the lives of at least 2 200 people, the international community cannot but condemn in the strongest terms what is happening in syria. i hope that syria can emerge from the turmoil it is in as a free, prosperous and democratic country, respecting the sovereignty of all its neighbouring states and its ethnic minorities.
in writing. the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the situation in syria, where a dictatorial regime led by president bashar al-assad, whose persecution of opponents has resulted in the death of 2000 people, continues to violate the most basic human rights and does not respect international commitments. despite the embargo on the import of oil from syria decided by the european council on 2 september, some countries are violating this embargo and continue to finance the syrian regime, minimising the impact of the measures taken against al-assad. i therefore welcome the measures now adopted, such as the call for the resignation of the current president and his regime, the impartial investigation of the killings, imprisonments, arbitrary detentions, mysterious disappearances and torture by the syrian security forces, the ban on the import of syrian oil and the adoption of new sanctions targeting the regime but not the civilian population. i also welcome the call on the members of the united nations security council, in particular russia and china, to adopt a resolution strongly condemning the use of murderous and gratuitous violence by al-assad's supporters and to adopt strong sanctions in the event of non-compliance.
in writing. - this resolution constitutes a threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of syria and does not set aside support for possible military aggression against that country, in contravention of international law and the un charter. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. he presents a roll of criticism and accusations against the syrian authorities, concealing important facts related to the action of armed groups in destabilising the internal situation in that country. and once again it demonstrates its hypocrisy when it invokes human rights and points the finger at syria as a threat to stability and security in the region, in order to divert israel's attention from its apartheid policy against the palestinian people and its destabilising role throughout the middle east, which the eu and the us encourage and support. the same hypocrisy is shown in pointing the finger at syria to hide the repression exercised by the regimes of bahrain and yemen against their peoples in their struggle for freedom, democracy and social justice.
in writing. - i can only support the adoption of this document which strongly condemns the increased use of force against demonstrators in syria, who are being brutally and systematically persecuted every day. by choosing the path of repression instead of implementing the reforms long demanded by the syrian people, the syrian regime is irrevocably compromising its legitimacy and, consequently, president bashar al-assad and his regime must step down from power and allow for a peaceful transition to democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it appropriate to hear the european parliament's call for the launch of an authentic, immediate and inclusive political process, involving all democratic political actors and civil society organisations, which could serve as a basis for a peaceful and irreversible transition to democracy in syria. this request is in line with the statement by the presidency of the united nations security council, which stresses that the only solution to the current crisis is a comprehensive political process led by syria. i hope that the meeting of the secretary-general of the arab league with the syrian authorities will bear fruit and that concrete measures will be taken.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution because it is a particularly serious area of crime with a crossborder dimension and, in many cases, with implications beyond the eu's internal and external borders. it is important that the commission gives priority to the fight against corruption in its security agenda for the coming years, including with regard to the human resources that are needed.
in writing. - corruption is an obstacle to the normal functioning of the institutions. it is a transnational phenomenon and one of the major concerns of the various states and international organizations. corruption undermines the rule of law, erodes trust in the institutions, seriously undermines the smooth flow of relations between citizens and the administration and seriously undermines mutual trust between member states, affecting cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs and also causing market distortions. it is estimated that corruption results in losses of €120 billion a year, or 1% of eu gdp. this resolution, which i supported, calls on the commission to give priority to the fight against corruption in the context of the security agenda for the coming years. it also called on the commission to ensure the transposition and enforcement of eu anti-corruption legislation, including deterrent sanctions. it urges the council and the member states to ratify and fully implement the oecd convention on the fight against corruption by foreign public officials in international business transactions. it also urged all eu institutions and member states to ensure greater transparency by drawing up codes of conduct or improving existing ones.
in writing. − knowing all the negative effects of corruption, not only on the public image of states but also, and more importantly, on their economic and financial performance and on the functioning of the internal market, i welcome the anti-corruption package proposed by the commission, which includes a communication on the fight against corruption in the eu, a decision establishing an eu information mechanism on the fight against corruption and a report on the fight against corruption in the private sector. i also consider the proposal for the text of this resolution to be relevant and appropriate, in that it calls on the commission to adopt minimum standards for the definition of corruption and the sanctions associated with it, taking into account its cross-border dimension and its consequences for the internal market.
in writing. - the fight against corruption is a moral imperative which should concern all citizens. when we consider that the annual cost of corruption to the european union (eu) economy is €120 billion - practically the amount of an annual eu budget - we can easily see the scale of the problem and the efforts that member states must make to combat it. european citizens are aware of this scourge, as 4 out of 5 think that there is corruption in public procurement. in this respect, it is imperative to create mechanisms to ensure that financial resources do not end up in corrupt hands and that those who commit fraud are punished by example. unfortunately, there are european countries which have not yet signed the united nations convention on corruption, and it is in countries with the most dangerous economies that corruption is most significant. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to bridge the gap between the legislation on the fight against corruption within the eu and reality, by increasing the confidence of citizens and preserving the good name of politicians and public administrators.
in writing. - this resolution sets out some objectives and necessary measures to combat corruption. however, it does so without going to the bottom of the matter and its root causes - which would be essential to an effective and consequent attack on the problem. these causes are inseparable from the neoliberal policies that fuel privatization, financial speculation, the overlapping and domination of economic and financial power over political power. we agree with the reference to the fight against anonymous shell companies in secretive jurisdictions, which are used to enable criminal financial flows, which facilitate money laundering. it is true that corruption undermines the rule of law, leads to the misuse of public money in general and of eu taxpayer-funded funds. in fact, the risk of corruption is particularly acute in cases of large-scale deregulation and privatisation, so the solution is also to put an end to these policies. among many other good reasons, this one too. we voted in favour of the resolution, but we insisted on the need for more courageous and firm measures.
in writing. - although this resolution sets out some objectives and measures to combat corruption, it does not go into the substance of the matter and its main causes, linked to the neoliberal policies that fuel privatisation and financial speculation. we agree that, as the resolution says, the commission must fight anonymous shell companies in secretive jurisdictions, which are used to enable criminal financial flows, which facilitate money laundering. it is true that corruption undermines the rule of law, leads to the misuse of public money in general and of eu taxpayer-funded funds, and is responsible for market distortions, but it is linked to the core of the capitalist system itself. in fact, the risk of corruption is particularly acute in cases of large-scale deregulation and privatisation, and the solution is to put an end to these policies. we therefore voted in favour of the resolution, but insisted on more courageous and firm measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that corruption is a cancer of society and is often responsible for the lack of economic growth in some of the countries where it is most evident. the commission must therefore give priority to tackling corruption, with initiatives that lead to exemplary and dissuasive sanctions against such practices.
in writing. − all the european union's efforts to fight corruption must be strongly and effectively supported by the european parliament. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the call on the commission to speed up its work in order to fulfil its reporting obligations under the united nations convention against corruption. i believe that the fight against corruption requires greater transparency in financial transactions, especially those involving offshore jurisdictions in the eu and the rest of the world, and i support all measures aimed at combating this.
in writing. - i support this proposal because it expresses the deepest sadness and indignation at the tens of thousands of people who have died, at the time when 750 000 are still at imminent risk of starvation and when 13.3 million people in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti are in urgent need of food aid, victims of the worst famine in 60 years. this human suffering and loss of life calls for a greater eu mobilisation. i hope that this resolution will help to ensure that all the authorities and factions in the region can allow humanitarian aid organisations unhindered access to those in need, so as to protect the civilian population in all circumstances.
in writing. - the information that in the horn of africa 750,000 people are at risk of death from malnutrition cannot but disturb those who receive it. it is up to the political decision-makers to do everything in their power to prevent such a catastrophe from actually occurring, with a real awareness of its limitations and that the circumstances surrounding the countries affected by humanitarian crises are not always such as to allow for as effective action as desired. i endorse the european parliament's appeal to all actors in the affected region, in particular the armed groups that are ravaging it, to facilitate access to humanitarian aid for the needy populations and to cease all acts of violence and repression against them. without this cooperation, all aid efforts will be redoubled and much less effective.
in writing. the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution deals with the situation of food shortages in east africa. this is a situation which concerns not only the citizens but also the european and international institutions. in fact, the horn of africa is experiencing the worst drought in decades, with an estimated 12 million people affected. in somalia, the situation is even more serious because of the internal conflict that has dragged on for almost twenty years, the absence of state reserves, the lack of funding from international institutions and the absence of an agricultural policy that helps to prevent and/or minimize these humanitarian disasters. in the short term, we need to raise about a billion dollars to deal with this humanitarian crisis. but the causes of this situation, namely climate change, which has had a catastrophic impact on ecosystems, must be identified. i therefore welcome the adoption of the measures contained in this proposal and hope that they will help to alleviate the suffering of a population suffering from malnutrition, the majority of whom are children and women, who are urgently awaiting humanitarian aid from international organizations.
in writing. - the resolution clearly shows the scale of the human tragedy in this part of africa. but by pointing out some of the immediate causes of hunger, it fails to identify fully and accurately the root causes and those responsible for this situation. this also limits the scope of some of the proposed solutions. the volatility of prices to which many countries have been exposed after the destruction of their fragile productive fabric (largely as a result of interventions by the imf and the world bank) is mainly due to financial speculation in food products. this is an area where speculators (investment funds, hedge funds, pension funds and big banks) have been concentrating as other speculative bubbles have been drying up or bursting. the only way to stop this speculation is to stop the instruments that enable it, in particular with some financial products such as otc derivatives. unfortunately, the measures taken by the eu in this area are far from being able to stop this sinister speculative machine and its inhuman consequences. the same applies to the proposals made in this resolution. to urge speculators to take social responsibility is like asking a fox to restrain itself once it is in the cage. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution, but we insist that the hunger and despair in the horn of africa have their immediate causes, which we have always referred to: severe drought and internal conflicts. but they have, in addition, deep, often hidden causes, linked to colonialism and its new forms. we have seen foreign interference, the exploitation of natural resources and their population, debt and debt service at unbearable levels, speculation in the prices of raw materials and foodstuffs. in general, economic and social disaster gives way to civil wars, sometimes to the so-called failed state, to external military intervention. it was the us support for the ethiopian invasion of somalia, the saudi support for the islamist group, the recurring airstrikes, because somalia also has oil. humanitarian aid to the region is thus urgently needed, but without the interventionism of interested parties. the discourse of compassion and pity cannot hide the necessary understanding of these causes and the fair allocation of responsibilities.
in writing. - what is happening in east africa in the 21st century is unacceptable and shows that we all still have a lot to do to avoid this kind of human catastrophe. despite all the financial and human efforts the eu has made, they have not been enough to end hunger in the region. more eu support is therefore needed to mobilise the areas most affected by hunger in somalia and the horn of africa. priorities should be given to the provision of food aid, medical care, clean water and adequate sanitation. however, i believe that this effort must be accompanied by greater efficiency in order to avoid waste and illegal exploitation, which only harm the most deprived population, in particular children, women and the elderly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. all possible support must be given to the 13.3 million people in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti who are in urgent need of food aid and are suffering from the worst famine in 60 years. the eu's solidarity cannot and should not be conditioned by economic constraints.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the disease, and for the commission to take action to combat the spread of the disease. i would point out that the four most common noncommunicable diseases are cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, cancer and diabetes, and that other important noncommunicable diseases should not be forgotten. the document advocates a goal that i consider ambitious but achievable, and which envisages a reduction of national mortality rates by 25% by 2025 compared to 2010 rates.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's position and commitments ahead of the un high-level meeting on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, as, according to the who, 86% of deaths in europe are caused by noncommunicable diseases and a significant proportion of these are preventable, the eu and the member states must strengthen primary prevention, research and early diagnosis in order to achieve the 25% reduction in mortality from preventable noncommunicable diseases by 2025 as proposed by the who.
in writing. − according to the world health organisation, 86% of deaths in europe are caused by non-communicable diseases, the most common being cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer and diabetes. while it cannot be said lightly that all these diseases are behavioral, the truth is that they are all associated with risk factors that are, such as smoking, unbalanced diet, abuse of salt, fats and alcohol, and lack of physical activity. it is up to the states - and the union can play an important role in this - to reduce, if not the prevalence, at least the mortality associated with these diseases. this must be done not only by prevention - combined with campaigns to promote healthier lifestyles - but also by a very serious commitment to the early diagnosis, detection and treatment of these diseases, factors which we know are essential to reducing their mortality.
in writing. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc), calls on the government of the drc to take all necessary measures to ensure that the drc is not subject to any form of sanctions. the human being seeks, throughout his years of existence, what we might call the quality of life. however, this quality of life can end in a silent death. we can say that some of the pleasures of life (improper diet, alcohol, and tobacco) can lead to death if not properly regulated. non-communicable diseases such as obesity, alcoholism and smoking - the causes of diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, stroke, etc. - are responsible for about 85% of deaths in the eu and their treatment costs are estimated at many billions of euros. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal, which is aimed at generalizing measures already implemented in other countries and aimed at preventing and reducing these diseases, which, as we have said, are the main cause of death in europe.
in writing. − noncommunicable diseases i.e. cardiovascular disease (the number one cause of death in europe), cancer (the number two cause of death in europe), respiratory diseases and diabetes together account for 86% of deaths in europe, according to the world health organisation. this resolution, based on a realistic and enlightening picture of the situation, points to relevant solutions involving greater cooperation between member states in defining a strategy to combat these diseases, with primary prevention, research, early diagnosis and education as essential pillars. the need for greater cooperation in international fora is also stressed. although the resolution deserves our full support, a few words are necessary in relation to the current context in the eu with regard to public health services. the wise and correct words in the resolution cannot make us forget the brutal attack that is under way in many countries, including portugal, against the public health systems in all their various forms, as well as against the education and research systems. this attack also compromises in practice many of the efforts needed to combat these and other diseases. it is a pity that this aspect was not also mentioned in the resolution.
in writing. − noncommunicable diseases i.e. cardiovascular disease (the number one cause of death in europe), cancer (the number two cause of death in europe), respiratory diseases and diabetes are known to account for 86% of all deaths in europe, according to the world health organisation. the resolution points to relevant solutions, involving greater cooperation between member states, in the definition of a strategy to combat these diseases, with primary prevention, research, early diagnosis and education as essential pillars. the need for greater cooperation in international fora is also stressed. we voted in favour of the resolution, but a few words are necessary in relation to the current situation in the eu with regard to public health services. the wise and correct words in the resolution cannot make us forget the brutal attack that is under way in many countries, including portugal, against the public health systems in all their various forms, as well as against the education and research systems. this attack also compromises in practice many of the efforts needed to combat these and other diseases. it is a pity that this aspect was not also mentioned in the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it requires a strong commitment from the commission and the member states to the serious global problem of non-communicable diseases. it is important that the european union supports the ambitious target of reducing national mortality rates in this area by 25% by 2025 compared to 2010. an ambitious goal, but achievable if everyone works together towards it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu's position and commitments ahead of the un high-level meeting on the prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases, as i agree with the need for an integrated, holistic and patient-centred approach to long-term illness in this field, which should include disease prevention and health promotion, early diagnosis, control and education, as well as awareness campaigns on risk factors, previous problems and unhealthy lifestyles (smoking, poor diets, lack of physical activity and alcohol consumption) and coordination of hospital and community care.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, as it has already achieved unanimous support in the committee. i would like to stress the commission's communication on this subject and agree with the analysis of the impact of the 2012 world radiocommunication conference on eu policies.
in writing. − access to radio spectrum and radio communications is essential to ensure that all european citizens can access digital technologies and broadband connections, representing the total volume of this sector of approximately eur 200 billion. therefore, and given the value of radio spectrum, it is urgent to define the priorities of the union in its allocation and use. spectrum is a scarce public resource and crucial for a growing number of sectors, which are key to the overall leadership of the european telecommunications industry and to boosting the digital economy, which will increase productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to the single market.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution by mr herbert reul, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the european union's policy approach to the itu world radiocommunications conference 2012 (wrc-12); the international telecommunication union (itu), the world's oldest international organisation founded in 1865, aims to standardise and regulate radio waves and international telecommunications. it is a specialized agency of the united nations (un) whose recommendations are recognized and accepted worldwide. in a digital society where information and communication technologies are evolving at breakneck speed, issues such as spectrum, wireless communications, data transmission speed, etc., are of enormous importance and can catalyse economic recovery. in fact, in no other field like this does it make sense to say that tomorrow begins now. i therefore welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution, since an ambitious approach by the eu at the above conference is needed to create the conditions for the development of these cutting-edge technologies in all member states.
in writing. − at this important world radiocommunication conference it is up to each member state to define and defend its policy approaches. in a matter as important as this, which deals with radio, television, mobile, broadband and other transmissions, each member state of the european union will have its own strategic guidelines so that, in the spirit of the necessary cooperation, they can manage their spectrum better. in today's society, there is a constant contradiction. on the one hand, technological research and development have improved access to information and telecommunications, but on the other hand, as a result of the crisis and its economic and social consequences, increasing segments of the population have difficulty in accessing the most advanced radio communications technologies. this situation may be aggravated if they continue to undermine the public nature and universal access to radio spectrum, in particular through the creation of the single market in this area. so while we expect the european commission to provide technical and political support to member states in their bilateral and multilateral negotiations with third countries, and to cooperate with member states in the negotiation of international agreements, we do not agree that it should substitute itself for the member states by calling into question their interests in a strategic area.
in writing. − it seems important to me that the agenda of the 2012 itu world radiocommunication conference addresses some of the radio spectrum issues for the development of the galileo system. as is well known, the galileo project is ambitious and very important for the eu, so member states must protect europe's interests and ability to develop and implement the best possible system. we must not forget that the galileo programme will have major implications for many eu policies, particularly in transport, communications, research and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu's political approach to the itu world radiocommunication conference 2012 (wrc-12). i believe that the proposals put forward by the european parliament reflect the concerns in this area. i agree with the importance of cooperation and coordination between member states if the eu is to benefit from the full potential of innovation opportunities in radio spectrum technologies. innovation is a key vehicle for accelerating the exit from the crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in south sudan is not worsened. but the birth of this country is already a painful birth, and it has been described very well here by mr tannock, even in the uncertainties about its borders and the conflict that continues to breed with sudan. it continues in the blue nile region in the southern cordovan. we have, of course, the kind of repeated human rights violations to which, unfortunately, the regime of omar al-bashir has already made us accustomed. and on the other side, we have a country, south sudan, a recent country, one of the poorest in the world, with one of the worst health records, one of the worst mortality records, that is wasting people and resources in a war with its northern neighbor. it's a country that's just been born, just recently the south sudanese celebrated their independence, and the question we have to ask is do they know that, for the most part, they no longer have a country. land right now in south sudan costs 3 cents an acre. there are foreign companies that are buying thousands of acres in south sudan, with access to its underground riches, its natural resources, without the south sudanese knowing. the government, which is involved in this conflict with sudan, its larger neighbour, needs resources for the war and, on the other hand, does not pay enough attention to its own territory and resources. i think this should make us think about the way we in the european union discuss this kind of human rights issue. we often have a position that is reactive, that is at most preventive, when human rights violations are already occurring. but we have very little systemic and continuous vision. we now pay attention to these countries when human rights violations are taking place, but, for example, we do not pay attention to this kind of independence precisely at a time when a country is still young, is fragile, needs to be protected, for example, from absolutely predatory attitudes, not only in its region but also abroad. the companies that are buying up south sudan are american, they are european, they are chinese, and they are now ensuring that this country has no chance of a future. this calls on our representative - and i end with this - our permanent representative in south sudan, to make every effort to ensure that our vision, our follow-up since the birth of this country, is systematic and not just reactive, as we are having here.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, having observed the elections in khartoum in 2010 on behalf of this parliament and visited juba prior to the independence referendum, i regret to say that i am not surprised at the escalation of conflict in south kordofan and the blue nile state triggering an invasion by the sudan armed forces. those in the international community – namely in the us, the african union and the european union – who turn a blind eye to the crimes for which president omar hassan al-bashir has been indicted by the icc, and contribute to his impunity by failing to work to render him to the hague, must accept some responsibility for these developments, including the horrific loss of life and the outrageous denial of access for all those in need to humanitarian agencies. most of what the european parliament resolution recommends makes sense, but i doubt whether we can expect any meaningful progress towards the resolution of what is, as my colleague véronique de keyser has said, a political conflict between the north and the south. if we continue to put faith in mediation by pathetic personalities such as mr thabo mbeki, i fear we will not make any progress.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in eritrea and has called for the release of the swedish journalist dawit isaak. his imprisonment for ten years in eritrea, without charge, without trial and remaining incommunicado, is evidence of the brutality of the dictatorial regime of isaias afwerki which is, in fact, a regime like north korea in africa, as has already been said here. and the truth is that dawit isaak is not a unique case, there are many other journalists in prison, there are thousands of eritreans arbitrarily and inhumanely imprisoned, there are thousands of eritreans killed in the wars that isaias afwerki is involved in and there are thousands who flee their country as they can from their muzzled country. your country is constantly interfering in the conflicts in the horn of africa. and we're not fooling ourselves. neither by aiding development nor by cutting aid to development will the european union have any influence on this partner, which is, as has already been said, a member of cotonou and which does not respect the cotonou agreement. the european union must review its entire policy towards the horn of africa and begin by removing the pretext from the eritrean dictator for the miserable exploitation of his country and his people. unless the european union pressures ethiopia to recognise the arbitral tribunal's decision to demarcate the border with eritrea at badme, the european union will have no influence in eritrea and therefore isaias afwerki will continue to do as he pleases.
the rapporteur. - i would like to begin by thanking everyone for their cooperation, the good cooperation that has been established during the preparation and drafting of this report. i would like to thank you above all for the fact that it was done at a particularly difficult time, the summer holidays, when everyone was available to help draw up commitments and for the fact that we are here today, in this debate, to discuss the content of the report. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the various opinions of the committees involved, for the contributions they were able to make and which were incorporated in the final report, and before i turn to the content of the report itself, i cannot help but express my great appreciation and gratitude to the two officials of the committee on industry, research and energy, susanne kiefer and oren gai, who worked with me during the month of august and i think they deserve more than recognition and a very special thank you. that said, it is timely that the commission has launched a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding for 2014-2020, which we have also had many opportunities to talk about with the commissioner and which i believe is a golden opportunity to reinforce the added value and strength of research and innovation in the european context. but also, as i have had the opportunity to say on several occasions, i understand that a common research and innovation funding framework is not made by the sum of its parts, because we know that often the whole is not equal to the sum of its parts. and so when we put the framework programme, the european institute of innovation and technology and the european competitiveness and innovation programme together and add the amounts that are associated we do not have a common strategy unless we think about what the objectives should be associated with this proposal. that is why i have tried to define the main objectives from the outset of the proposal. i think that the resources at our disposal are mainly used for three fundamental dimensions. firstly, capacity building: european researchers are the most valuable resource we have for research. the strengthening of these capacities, together with infrastructure, is one of the levels of investment we must embrace as a priority. secondly, and as a second objective, the potential and cooperation we have in the field of research. this is certainly one of the areas where we have been most successful, and it is important that we strengthen it, that we do not lose sight of areas which are fundamental and decisive for what is europe's wealth, such as the social sciences and basic research. without them we have no innovation, without them we do not know the societies on which we must intervene politically and that is why we cannot let them fall. and thirdly, innovation and the market oriented towards the common good. i believe that only by defining the objectives can we really have a common framework that serves everyone and can make research and innovation central and decisive areas at a time that is just as crucial as the one we are living in today: a situation of economic, social and financial crisis, in which we are on the way to an increasingly divergent europe. that is why i have voted to keep the structural funds separate from the european funds, because we have to make the road to cohesion, that is why it is important to ensure that there are decent working conditions for researchers in europe and that the measures to simplify research are implemented. i've been talking as an investigator for ten years. researchers cannot be guinea pigs for the bureaucratic systems we have created, they must be implemented. and that's also why it's very important that we not only look at excellence but really look at the path to excellence. in a divided europe, competition cannot be a race where those who have access to the first places at the finish line always win, and we know who they are, madam commissioner. it is therefore important to ensure that competition, as seen in the field of research and innovation, is healthy to have better conditions for all, but that it is in the direction of cohesion and convergence to make europe as a whole a zone of excellence in the same field.
on behalf of the ppe group. other i would like to begin by congratulating mrs marisa matias on her excellent work and the constructive collaboration she has established with the other political groups. the epp group is pleased to see its main proposals reflected in this report. these are: increasing the budget of the next research and innovation framework, coordinating it with the structural funds, including the concept of pathways to excellence, creating the conditions for greater involvement of industry and in particular smes, promoting the participation of young researchers and administrative and financial simplification. research and innovation are two fundamental pillars of economic development and job creation. it is therefore crucial to increase the share of funding allocated to research and innovation within the overall eu budget, by substantially increasing the framework programme and the percentage of the structural funds dedicated to this sector. the first objective of the framework programme is to promote excellence and this must continue, but it is equally important to create the conditions for the participation of small units, embryos of excellence such as small research groups and innovative companies. to this end, the report proposes the concept of pathways to excellence. the epp recognises the key role of the business community in job creation and economic development and welcomes the importance attached to smes in this report. unemployment among highly qualified young people is a scourge in several eu countries. the participation of young people in research projects will be highly beneficial. finally, there is an urgent need to simplify access to the research and development funds in order to create a culture of trust among all those involved in order to strengthen research and innovation in europe.
i would like to congratulate marisa matias on her excellent report. the importance of the common strategic framework for research and innovation funding goes far beyond its strictly scientific objectives. it is now a vital instrument of eu 2020, economic growth, job creation, innovation and competitiveness. but we have to learn from the past and its mistakes. we need a programme that is bigger and more ambitious, that is effective in promoting scientific excellence and in supporting the economic and social exploitation of research results, that continues what has worked well before, continuing and extending it as is the case with the european research council, and that goes as far as possible in simplification efforts. finally, a programme to promote a single european research area at a single speed, as has already been stressed here twice, that is, by reducing the differences between member states. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. europe cannot fail in this task.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very encouraged by the debate that has unfolded here. in answer to comments by mr rübig and others in relation to the budget, obviously i am in the hands of parliament and the council. certainly, from what i have heard this evening, i think that parliament will be a very strong ally in support of an increased budget. by way of conclusion, let me give you some flavour of how we think horizon 2020 should be organised. it will be structured around three distinct but mutually reinforcing blocks, in line with europe 2020 priorities. the first block, ‘excellence in the science base’, will strengthen the eu’s excellence in science. the second, ‘tackling societal challenges’, will respond directly to the challenges identified in europe 2020. the third block, ‘creating industrial leadership and competitive frameworks’, will support business, research and innovation. ms matias, i know these blocks do not correspond to the ‘three layers’ in your report, but i hope you will agree that the components are there and the objectives are the same. implementation will be simplified and standardised, with simplification covering both funding schemes and rules. key aspects will include a rationalised set of funding schemes, a single set of rules, earlier project start dates and further externalisation. the administrative burden on participants will be reduced through a radically simplified cost reimbursement approach. this will be based on the broadest possible acceptance of participants’ accounting practices and a greater use of lump sums and flat rates. the negotiation and selection phases will be shortened to allow projects to start earlier. simpler guidance and advisory services will be provided through both a single it portal and one-stop-shop support structures in the national language. there will be a clear differentiation between the objectives and modes of intervention of horizon 2020 and those of the cohesion policy funds, to ensure complementarities and synergies. horizon 2020 will allocate funds on the basis of excellence, regardless of geographical location. cohesion policy funds will focus on research and innovation capacity-building through pre-allocated envelopes for eligible regions. european regional development fund funding should support the development of smart specialisation strategies and should provide a ‘stairway to excellence’. based on these key principles, the commission will now develop its proposals for presentation by the end of this year. the proposals would have not been possible without your enriching report. all the issues that have been addressed this evening and have been addressed in the report will certainly be looked at very seriously and taken into account by myself and my services over the coming weeks.
the rapporteur. - i would first of all like to thank all the comments made during this debate, which was very interesting, and i would also like to say that it is obvious, and i thank mr reul for pointing this out, that this report is not an island within this parliament. it is already part of a series of reports in the field of research which point to a set of common lines, such as the carvalho report, the merkies report, the audy report - you are not here now - a set of parliament's guidelines which go in the same direction. this report adds some dimensions which i think should be taken into account given the debate we have had here, but there is a set of guidelines from parliament, as i said, which go in the same direction. i would therefore very much like the commission to take account of the recommendations of this house, the house of democracy. it is clear that research, innovation and development are not a minor area, we are only talking about the third largest layer of the european budget, after agriculture and cohesion. it is obvious that this is a key area for economic growth, for job creation, and here i am once again emphasizing quality employment: we must put an end to this wound, namely the precarious situation of researchers in many places in europe, and especially young researchers, an issue which has also been emphasized here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i don't have time to go through all of them, so i'm just going to focus on these. the commissioner knows that my initial proposal was to create a european investment bank for small and mediumsized enterprises, which represent 80 to 90% of the european industrial fabric and do not have the same conditions of access. we have reached a commitment to have a specific branch of the european investment bank dedicated to them and i sincerely hope that we will think about what public investment and funding is for, because that is what we are talking about. they are useful for research units, research centres, universities, other partners, for large companies they have been useful, but they have not been so useful for small and mediumsized enterprises and this is one of the errors that we must correct and reinforce in this next funding framework which is absolutely fundamental: the reinforcement of the budget in this area.
i think we should all welcome this trade agreement between the european union and the palestinian authority. with the current low level of trade between the two sides, any increase could have a significant impact not only on the improvement of the living conditions of the palestinians but also on the capacity of the palestinian authority to build the state building in question, and it is welcome that this vote happens to take place at the very moment when the palestinian authority is proposing recognition of the palestinian state at the united nations. we should welcome this coincidence.
it is imperative and urgent to break the blockade which israel has been imposing on palestine and its people, in defiance of international law and all relevant un resolutions. in proposing approval of this agreement, the commission cannot, however, ignore the reality on the ground. and the reality, which we have already mentioned here today, is that of a brutal and illegal occupation which, among many other things, creates numerous obstacles to palestinian exports and imports, in addition to daily barriers and restrictions to the movement of people and goods. in addition, this agreement necessarily raises another issue: that of trade relations between the european union and the state of israel, since it is well known that under this agreement, and the existing agreements with israel, products originating in the israeli settlements enter the european market. this is despite the fact that more than a decade ago the commission itself considered that no settlement in the occupied territories could be considered israeli territory. in view of this well-known problem, the commission is placing the burden on the member states and shedding its own responsibility. all this reinforces the fact that it is high time that the independence of the state of palestine was recognised, as requested by the palestinian national authority at the united nations, as an indispensable step towards a just settlement of the conflict in accordance with international law.
mr president, mr commissioner, tourism needs a clear and coordinated european approach, taking account of the potential and challenges that the different forms of tourism have to offer us. the diversity of tourism in the european union is so rich that it has allowed the sector to grow exponentially and the european union's competitiveness to increase. a commitment to this key sector, which accounts for 10% of gdp and about 12% of employment in the european union, will make it possible not only to create european added value but also to cope with the economic crisis we are in. i come from an outermost region, madeira, where tourism is the main economic activity. the creation of a specific heading for the sector in the 2014-2020 financial framework is therefore indispensable for the cohesive and sustainable growth of tourism, which is mainly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises. the achievement of a genuine, sustainable and diversified european tourism policy requires a concrete strategic plan with a well-defined timetable, actions and funding, capable of enhancing the visibility and quality of the tourism sector in the european union.
mr president, in portugal more than 3 000 firms have closed down this year, investment and industrial production have fallen to levels of 15 years ago, agricultural production is lower than it was 16 years ago. the programme of aggression, impoverishment and extortion drawn up by the imf, the european commission and the ecb is obviously promoting and aggravating this situation. the recession is here. the general public is seeing its incomes fall, the cost of living rising, and the assault on public enterprises or strategic public-sector enterprises is being prepared. unemployment is widespread and with it poverty and real social tragedies. will the disaster visible in greece not be enough to reverse course? we want to salute the struggle of the portuguese workers and people, which will be vividly expressed by the cgtp intersyndical demonstrations on 1 october. there will certainly be many thousands who will say no to widespread poverty and injustice, who will refuse to let the troika's revenues rob them of their present and their future. their cry will echo in the struggles of the workers and peoples throughout europe. you better start listening to them.
madam president, the discussion of a strategic framework to help developing countries meet the challenges of food security, which is obviously necessary and welcome, is inseparable, as the rapporteur says in her report, from the discussion of the coherence between this objective, food security in developing countries, and the sectoral policies of the european union, such as agricultural, trade and energy policies, to name just three examples. and the truth is that there is today a blatant and manifest incoherence between these sectoral policies and this objective of food security. free trade, the promotion of intensive, export-oriented production models which threaten and destroy small and mediumsized farming and family farming, the use, the pressure to use fertile land for purposes other than food production and which compete with food production - all this threatens the food sovereignty of developing countries, which is inseparable from their food security. the greater a country's food dependence, the greater its food insecurity, the greater the difficulty in ensuring that its population is supplied with food in sufficient quantity and quality.
madam president, european schools have an important mission: to provide education in the mother tongue to pupils whose parents work outside their country of origin. that is why we are very concerned about attempts to implement measures which may undermine the mission and objectives of the european schools, under the pretext of cost rationalisation. we are talking about measures such as increasing the minimum number of students per class for optional subjects, vertical grouping of classes from two or more different years, or reducing support for students with learning difficulties. some of these measures may lead to situations which have in the past been considered by the european ombudsman to be unjustifiably discriminatory. we refuse to take any step back in this area. it is unacceptable that the principle of multilingualism should also be attacked in european schools and that the privileged status enjoyed in other areas by some of the languages of the european union should be extended here to the detriment of others.
madam president, disasters are a recurring theme in our parliamentary debate, which is natural, given that they are becoming more frequent and more devastating. i would therefore like to welcome the initiative of commissioner georgieva, because it seems to me very pertinent, and also congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gardini. we in the s&d group agree with the analysis of the effects of climate change on the increase in the number and severity of disasters and give priority to prevention policies. the lisbon treaty introduces provisions to strengthen the capacity to respond to disasters, making it more comprehensive, coordinated and efficient. we therefore welcome the proposal to create a european emergency response capacity and the proposal to develop a european emergency response centre. we also consider it of the utmost importance to maintain a permanent operational centre, operating 24 hours a day, in conjunction with the member states through focal points, which are also permanent. i would like to welcome the rapporteur's proposals, particularly in relation to pilot projects. the importance of the pilot project for a reserve of aircraft for fighting forest fires, for example, should be emphasized. its success justifies its continuation and consolidation. the lisbon treaty also introduced a solidarity clause, and i think solidarity is a dimension of disaster response that was important to reinforce in this report. and that is why we have tabled amendments to reinforce this aspect of solidarity.
madam president, commissioner, exactly one year ago, in september 2010, a large majority in this parliament approved a report, for which i was rapporteur, on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters. it was noted that prevention, as the first and decisive phase of the disaster management cycle, should be given greater importance. prevention can prevent many disasters from occurring and significantly lessen the effects of others. the measures we proposed in that report included the creation of a financial framework for prevention, measures in the fields of forestry, fire prevention, protection and defence of the coast, the restoration and protection of water bodies, the creation of a public agricultural insurance scheme and the introduction of a minimum compensation scheme for farmers affected by disasters, the strengthening of early warning systems, and the revision of the solidarity fund regulation. a year later, it's easy to see that's pretty much all that's left to do. when discussing the other phases of the management cycle - preparation, response, recovery - it would be good to bear this in mind.
in writing. − i support this recommendation, in agreement with the rapporteur's view on the agreement of april 2011 providing for duty-free access for palestinian imports of agricultural products on the eu market and exports of eu processed agricultural products to palestine, which will help strengthen the palestinian economy, which is marked by poverty and crisis. however, and again agreeing with the rapporteur, we must know the exact origin of the products, and it is necessary to ban products from any settlement in the territories occupied by israel, and the obstacles imposed by israel in the area of customs control in the palestinian territories have yet to be resolved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that increasing exports of palestinian products to the eu is a crucial help to the development of the palestinian economy, while not harming european markets in these sectors. the implementation of this agreement could be a first step towards the construction of a palestinian state, in the logic of a two-state solution, given the beneficial impact on political stabilization in the region.
in writing. - regardless of political considerations about the current state of relations between israel and palestine and how they will develop, i think it is undeniable that the people of both states must deserve european support, particularly those who have the least. i believe that they are the ones who will benefit most from the agreement in question and it is in view of their needs that i give my consent to its conclusion. greater trade liberalisation can be an effective means of promoting the normalisation of life in the palestinian territories, the strengthening of the local economy and the improvement of the living conditions of its inhabitants. i hope that our counterpart will take advantage of this agreement and use it properly for the benefit of the palestinian people.
in writing. − this recommendation concerns an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip, and aims to establish further liberalisation of trade in processed and unprocessed agricultural products, fish and fishery products, which amends the euro-mediterranean interim association agreement on trade and cooperation between the european community and the palestine liberation organisation (plo) for the benefit of the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip. the aim of this agreement, signed in april 2011, is to help develop the palestinian economy, which is in a very serious crisis due to poverty and unemployment, by exporting agricultural and fisheries products to the eu duty-free. despite the fact that the palestinian authority is the eu's smallest trading partner, i am voting in favour of this recommendation which aims to free exports from the palestinian territories from israeli customs controls and i hope that it will be the first step in building a palestinian state whose right to self-determination must be respected by the state of israel.
in writing. - the end of the israeli blockade of palestine and its people is essential for the development of the palestinian economy. this agreement, by proposing to increase exports of palestinian products to the eu and by facilitating imports from palestine, is, in the present framework, a contribution to achieving this objective. the scope of this contribution is, however, severely limited by the actual situation in the occupied territories today, which is characterized by a violent and persistent attack on the most basic rights of the palestinian people. amongst many other things, this brutal and illegal occupation creates numerous obstacles to palestinian exports and imports, in addition to daily barriers and limitations to the movement of people and goods. this is the problem that must be solved. the european union is therefore urging the palestinian authority to take immediate action to ensure that the palestinian authority is recognized as a full member of the un general assembly. the problem of economic relations between the eu and the state of israel still persists. that is to say, the problem of the eu's intolerable complacency and connivance in the face of the clear and repeated violations of human rights perpetrated by israel in the occupied territories - in defiance of the very provisions of the association agreement concerning human rights, which, as we have always said, are of little value.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report because we believe that the approval of this agreement can help the development of the palestinian economy and the possibility for it to export products to the eu. however, what is important to stress is the urgent need to end the israeli blockade of palestine. the commission cannot ignore, by signing this agreement, the slow agony of the palestinian people with the occupation of their territories by israel. this brutal and illegal occupation creates numerous obstacles to palestinian exports and imports, in addition to the daily barriers and limitations to the movement of people and goods. although the commission has since 1998 ruled that no settlement in the occupied territories can be considered israeli territory, it is not fulfilling its obligations by imposing on the member states the obligation to monitor any irregularities in the origin of products. we therefore support the demand of the palestinian people, their right to recognition of the sovereign and independent state of palestine in the pre-1967 borders, with its capital in jerusalem.
in writing. − in 2005, under the rabat roadmap, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with a number of mediterranean countries, including the palestinian authority, in order to establish conditions for the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fisheries products. more specifically, the agreement provides for duty-free (and mainly also quota-free) access for palestinian imports of agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products to the eu market. several products of the same nature originating in the eu will be exempt from duties (but not from quotas) to access the palestinian market, with some exceptions. however, the ultimate objective of the agreement is to help develop the palestinian economy and thus facilitate the possibility of exporting palestinian products to the eu. the future of the region depends on improved economic development. trade can also serve as a development mechanism that contributes to poverty reduction and political stability.
in writing. − this report is based on an agreement with the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip providing for greater liberalisation of their trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products. the negotiations were opened in may 2010 and concluded in december 2010. the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters was signed in april 2011. the agreement provides for duty-free (and mainly also quota-free) access for palestinian imports of agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products to the eu market. several products of the same nature originating in the eu will be exempt from duties (but not from quotas) to access the palestinian market, with some exceptions. i voted in favour of agreeing to the ultimate objective of this agreement, which is to help the development of the palestinian economy.
in writing. - the agreement, which has as its immediate objective the liberalization of trade between the community and the palestinian territories, has as its ultimate objective the support of the economic development of palestine. in fact, the creation of economic bridges between the areas, in addition to offering a new gateway to trade, helps the development of local production and the strengthening of ties between peoples. despite the political questions that such an approach always raises, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i support this recommendation, as agreements in the field of civil aviation which have been governed by bilateral agreements should be replaced by a general agreement between the european union (including all member states) and third countries, in order to avoid discrimination with regard to free competition. the agreement is also of particular importance as it concerns mexico, an important partner in the european air carrier market, which in 2009 recorded approximately 2,5 million passengers and 90 000 tonnes of cargo.
in writing. − in 2002, the court of justice of the european union found that traditional designation clauses in bilateral air service agreements concluded by member states infringe union law. following the court decision, the european commission negotiated an agreement replacing certain provisions of the current 13 bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states and the united mexican states. the horizontal agreement with mexico will restore a sound legal basis for eu-mexico relations in the aviation sector. mexico is an important market for eu carriers, which in 2009 recorded approximately 2.5 million passengers and 90 000 tonnes of cargo. given the importance and size of the eu-mexico aviation market, this report, which i supported, argues that a broader aviation agreement should be concluded, helping to strengthen eu-mexico aviation cooperation and to enhance opportunities and benefits for industry and consumers in both the eu and mexico.
in writing. − the court of justice of the european union has held that traditional designation clauses in bilateral air service agreements concluded by member states infringe union law in so far as they allow a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend licences or authorisations granted to air carriers designated by a member state but whose capital is not substantially owned by that member state or by nationals of that member state and whose effective control is not exercised by them. these clauses constituted a clear discrimination, in breach of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states exercising their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. this new agreement negotiated by the commission, in addition to correcting a discriminatory situation, obviously brings advantages in that it replaces provisions of 13 of the current bilateral agreements with a horizontal agreement that restores a sound legal basis for eu-mexico relations.
in writing. − ensuring aviation safety and harmonised rules for the various market players is the central objective of this agreement between the european community and the united mexican states on civil aviation safety ('the agreement'). the agreement will avoid duplication of procedures (whether testing, assessment or certification). it should also be noted that the mutual recognition rule (of joint inspections and investigations and of the exchange of safety data) allows efficiency gains for all actors. finally, the agreement guarantees all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu member state party to the bilateral agreement and mexico. last but not least, the agreement will allow for significant savings not only for the aviation industries but also efficiency gains for the airlines themselves.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mrs silvia-adriana ţicău, concerns a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and the united mexican states. the mexican market is important for eu carriers, with 2.5 million passengers and 90,000 tonnes of cargo in 2009. international relations in the field of aviation between member states and third countries were regulated by bilateral agreements until the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, which requires the european parliament to approve air services agreements. although the agreement was signed on 15 december 2010, it needs the approval of the ep to be concluded. i welcome the establishment of another agreement aimed at providing all air carriers from the member states with non-discriminatory access to routes to mexico, which is an important step in strengthening eu-mexico relations in the aviation sector.
in writing. as we have said in previous agreements of the same scope, in the current concrete framework in which civil aviation activity is developing, this proposed agreement raises doubts as to its scope and possible consequences. in fact, avoiding discrimination between eu airlines by allegedly creating a level playing field for the various european airlines could help facilitate the monopolistic concentration in the sector (a process already under way). the reference to the prevalence of free competition (article 4) is inserted in this line, aimed at reducing the ability of member states to defend their flag carriers, in a sector which is, for various reasons, strategic for the safeguarding of national interests. although the possible implications for portugal are comparatively less than in the case of the previous, similar agreements already signed by brazil, the usa and canada, in coherence and for the same reasons as we have previously advanced, we did not support this report.
in writing. - following the example of previous agreements of the same scope, in the current concrete framework in which civil aviation activity is developed, this proposed agreement raises doubts as to its scope and possible consequences. as the report states, avoiding discrimination between eu airlines by allegedly creating a level playing field for the various european airlines could help facilitate monopolistic concentration in the sector (a process already under way). the reference to the prevalence of free competition (article 4) is inserted in this line, aimed at reducing the ability of member states to defend their flag carriers, in a sector which is, for various reasons, strategic for the safeguarding of national interests. it is true that the possible implications for portugal are comparatively smaller than in the case of the previous similar agreements already signed by brazil, the usa and canada. but, in line with the same reasons we have already put forward, we do not support this report.
in writing. - the eu-mexico air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as by all the bodies concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment. this agreement is therefore an important step towards opening the market to eu and mexican airlines without any discrimination. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. − according to the report, the horizontal agreement with mexico will restore a sound legal basis for eu-mexico relations in the aviation sector. this is an important step towards strengthening eu-mexico relations in the aviation sector. mexico is an important market for eu carriers, which in 2009 recorded approximately 2,5 million passengers and 90,000 tonnes of cargo. given the size and importance of the eu-mexico aviation market, it would be important to draw up a comprehensive agreement, similar to those concluded with other countries in the americas, namely the usa, canada and, more recently, brazil. i have voted in favour of this report, considering it a positive step in the right direction.
in writing. - after agreements with the usa, canada and brazil, the eu's agreement with mexico opens yet another door for relations between the common space and the americas. in this case, it is an agreement concluded with a major trading partner (in 2009: about 2,5 million passengers and 90,000 tonnes of cargo), which will certainly lead to closer relations. i voted in favour of the requested directive because i agree with it.
in writing. the european commission has negotiated an agreement which will replace the 13 existing bilateral agreements between eu member states and the united mexican states. this agreement, known as the horizontal agreement, like many others which have been negotiated and concluded by the european union with various international partners in the field of civil aviation, will serve as a common legal framework for the relations of the various member states of the european union with the united mexican states, constituting the first step towards strengthening their relations in this sector. the size and importance of the mexican aviation market to the european union justify moving towards a more comprehensive agreement that is capable of bringing benefits to the civil aviation industry and to consumers of both parties. the agreement also complements a number of agreements concluded with other states of the americas, such as those recently concluded with the united states, canada and brazil.
in writing. - i support this recommendation, as i consider it to be extremely beneficial for the eu. the new protocol allows for 5000 tonnes per year and a financial contribution from the eu to cape verde of eur 435 000, offering new fishing opportunities to portuguese, spanish and french vessels. this agreement is of the utmost importance in view of the fact that fishing in cape verde represents 2% of gdp, that it is an african country with good results in political, social and economic development and that cape verde has a special partnership with the outermost regions of the azores, madeira and the canary islands, and that this agreement is intended to strengthen these relations.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). the aim is to promote cooperation between the eu and the republic of cape verde in order to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and ensure rational exploitation of resources in the cape verdean fishing zone. this partnership ensures the sustainability of resources, bringing clear benefits to both parties. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the agreement promotes a privileged partnership between the eu and an important region, promoting the atlantic dimension in the context of the eu's integrated maritime policy. i also believe that this agreement is consistent with the eu's fisheries, maritime and development policies. i would like to highlight, as an example, the case of portugal, which, in view of this protocol, has guaranteed an increase in its long-line fishing licences from 7 to 9. on a broader scale, i also look forward to a strengthening of the eu-cape verde special partnership agreement, which has made considerable progress over the last few years and has undeniably contributed to the desirable process of dialogue and convergence between cape verde and the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the agreement promotes the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the cape verdean fishing zone. the new protocol now allows 35 eu surface longliners, including nine portuguese, to fish in cape verdean waters, two more than under the previous protocol.
in writing. - especially linked to the european union by its population, history and culture, cape verde has embarked on a process of rapprochement with europe, culminating in the celebration of the special partnership, in which its specificity and the remarkable progress it has been making have been expressly recognised and which constitute a happy example for developing countries. i hope that the partnership established in the fisheries sector will complement the other areas of privileged cooperation with the union and that all of them can bear good fruit for both sides. i hope that, also in the fisheries sector, cape verde will once again set an example and demonstrate that even with limited resources it is possible to make progress and build a stable and democratic country. like the rapporteur, i believe that in the future the agreement may complement the union's integrated maritime policy with an atlantic dimension.
in writing. - this recommendation on the draft council decision aims at the conclusion of a new fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde, which sets out fishing opportunities and financial compensation. the protocol between the european community and cape verde in the field of fisheries, which had been in force for five years, expired on 31 august 2011. last december, a new protocol was negotiated, to be in force between 1 september 2011 and 31 august 2014. however, in accordance with the tfeu, the conclusion of the new protocol requires the consent of the european parliament. considering that this is a country that has long had privileged relations with the eu, including a special partnership established in 2007, and that has an intense link with the outermost regions of europe, the azores, madeira and the canary islands, i welcome the conclusion of this protocol, which will not only allow the fishing fleets of portugal, spain and france to continue fishing in cape verdean waters, but will also contribute to the sustainable economic growth of a country where financial resources are not abundant.
in writing. − this fisheries protocol guarantees the possibility for member states' fleets to fish off cape verde until 31 august 2014. the continental shelves of cape verde, due to the volcanic origin of its islands, are generally narrow, thus limiting the productivity of the fisheries sector. cape verde's fisheries resources are not considerable, but include commercially important migratory species such as tunas, along with small pelagic fish, some demersal fish and lobsters. overall employment in the fisheries and related activities subsectors of the public administration was around 10 400 jobs in 2008, around 5% of the total workforce. we support the concerns expressed by the rapporteur in asking the commission to provide parliament with all relevant documentation and information on the conclusions of the joint committee meetings, the multiannual sectoral programme and the results of the respective annual evaluations; to facilitate the participation of parliament representatives as observers in the joint committee meetings; and to submit to parliament, during the last year of application of the new protocol and before the opening of negotiations for its renewal, a full evaluation report on its implementation, without imposing unnecessary restrictions on access to this document.
in writing. − this report refers to the fisheries protocol which guarantees the possibility for member states' fleets to fish off cape verde until 31 august 2014. it is an important agreement for tuna fishing, where fishing licences for surface longliners for portugal have increased from 7 licences to 9. this agreement, as in other fisheries agreements with third countries, raises important questions, both as regards the economic viability of the long-distance fishing fleets of the european union countries and the real fishing opportunities granted under it, as well as the development of third countries and the development aid actually granted. the commercial nature of these agreements is maintained, although the partnership and development aspect is strengthened, as is the case with this agreement, the annual financial contribution of which has been increased to eur 435 000, eur 110 000 of which is intended to support the development of the fisheries sector policy of the republic of cape verde. hopefully, this will be enough to support the fishermen and the people of cape verde.
in writing. - i am convinced that this new protocol will help to increase cape verde's capacity to combat iuu fishing, in particular by improving the monitoring and control infrastructures for fishing activities in its eez. it will also have a major impact on the fiscal and political stability of the country. for the european union, the conclusion of the new protocol will help maintain continuity in the fisheries areas covered by agreements in the west african region and will contribute to the viability of european sectors, as it provides eu vessels and the sectors that depend on it with a stable legal framework and predictability in the medium term. the agreement also adds another dimension to the special partnership between the european union and a major peripheral nation and could complement the eu's integrated maritime policy in the future with an atlantic dimension.
in writing. − the conclusion of this agreement is of great importance to the european union as a key vector for the pursuit of the external policy objectives of the common fisheries policy, particularly in the west african region. in addition to providing interesting fishing opportunities for the community fleet, including the portuguese fleet, this agreement will help to increase cape verde's capabilities in combating iuu fishing, in particular by improving the infrastructure for monitoring and control of fishing activities in its eez. it will also have a major impact on the fiscal and political stability of the country. in addition, the agreement adds another dimension to the special partnership between the european union and a major peripheral nation by strengthening important areas of the eu's integrated maritime policy.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 2027/2006 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of cape verde was accompanied by a protocol on fishing opportunities and financial compensation. that protocol expired on 31 august 2011 and a new protocol signed on 27 july 2011 is now to be adopted. from the point of view of the republic of cape verde, the agreement with the eu is the closest it has concluded with any other trading partner in fisheries matters and has already allowed, in addition to the perception of financial compensation, to strengthen the instruments available to local fishermen. it is also a fishing area of great importance for the sustainability of community operators. i voted in favour of the balance achieved.
in writing. − the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde contributes, in the interest of both parties, to maintaining the continuity of fishing opportunities. the special partnership was established in 2007, taking into account the status of cape verde as a peripheral nation and the many things it has in common with the outermost regions of madeira and the azores. the geographical proximity and the affinity of the challenges faced contribute to an ever closer relationship, complementing the future atlantic dimension of the integrated maritime policy. in order to create a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy, the protocol provides for an annual contribution of eur 1 305 000. in addition, it would be desirable to foster synergies with various regional development programmes and to develop the agreement in a manner consistent with the eu's common fisheries policy and development policy. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this recommendation without stating anything against it.
in writing. the memorandum of cooperation on which we are voting today proposes modalities and conditions for collaboration to foster civil aviation research between the eu and the us. this cooperation may be developed through the exchange of information on programmes and projects, research results or publications, and of equipment, software and systems specific to research activities and compatibility studies. it may also include the coordination of research and development programmes and projects and their implementation. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it promotes solidarity and transatlantic cooperation, and thus opens up new opportunities for future cooperation in other areas. this memorandum removes technical barriers, enabling shared research structures and thus creating synergies in order to achieve faster and more accurate scientific results. the conclusion of this agreement strengthens mutual trust, shared research and economic and scientific growth and development. i therefore welcome this approach and stress the importance of its continuity, not only in the field of civil aviation but also in other areas where there are synergies to be achieved.
in writing. − cooperation between the eu and the united states in the field of civil aviation research and development is all the more important as the aeronautical industries in these two areas are relevant, as the adoption of common rules ensures efficiency gains for all stakeholders.
in writing. − the issue of international air traffic management is of enormous importance not only because of its exponential growth, but also because of the security problems that have become unexpectedly acute since the attacks of 11 september 2001. this recommendation, drafted by herbert reul, concerns a memorandum of cooperation nat-i-9406 between the european union and the united states of america in the field of civil aviation research and development. the mou under consideration follows the request made by the council to the commission in 2009 to achieve the highest level of interoperability between the air traffic modernization (atm) air traffic management research programme (sesar) and the similar us programme nextgen, as well as with other regional programmes of the international civil aviation organisation (icao). i am voting in favour of this memorandum because, in addition to promoting technological innovation and increasing research in the field of civil aviation, it is an instrument which will enable the parties to ensure greener and more efficient air transport systems, enhancing the competitiveness of european industry on a global scale.
in writing. the memorandum of cooperation in question lays down the terms and conditions of mutual cooperation to promote and increase research and development in the field of civil aviation. to this end, the us and eu parties may, subject to the availability of adequate funding and other necessary resources, provide related personnel, resources and services to cooperate to the extent provided for in their annexes and appendices. cooperation may take the form of exchanges of information on programmes and projects, research results or publications; scientific and technical personnel; equipment, software and systems specific to research activities and compatibility studies. it may also include the coordination of research and development programmes and projects and their implementation on a shared-effort basis. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the intellectual property rights referred to in this memorandum and in the annexes or appendices thereto. this is a question whose developments and consistency with the objectives set out will be important to monitor in the future, assessing their implementation.
in writing. − this memorandum of cooperation, including its annexes and appendices, lays down the terms and conditions of mutual cooperation to promote and enhance research and development in the field of civil aviation. to this end, the parties may, subject to the availability of adequate funding and other necessary resources, provide related personnel, resources and services to cooperate to the extent provided for in their annexes and appendices. cooperation may take the form of exchanges of information on programmes and projects, research results or publications, scientific and technical personnel, equipment, software and systems specific to research activities and compatibility studies. it may also include the coordination of research and development programmes and projects and their implementation on a shared-effort basis. the parties shall cooperate in the development of the intellectual property rights referred to in this memorandum and in the annexes or appendices thereto. we shall see how it is realised.
in writing. − with the adoption of this memorandum of cooperation, with all its annexes and appendices, the modalities and conditions for mutual cooperation to promote and enhance research and development in civil aviation between the eu and the united states are now established.
in writing. - this memorandum of cooperation, which i voted in favour of on the basis of the substantive opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, lays down the terms and conditions of mutual cooperation to promote and increase research and development in the field of civil aviation. the cooperation envisaged may take the form of exchanges of information on programmes and projects, research results or publications, scientific and technical personnel, equipment, software and systems specific to research activities and compatibility studies. cooperation may also include the coordination of research and development programmes and projects and their implementation on a shared basis. all indications are that the basis is being laid for better and more fruitful cooperation.
in writing. the eu and the us have signed a memorandum of cooperation on cooperation between the two spaces for civil aviation research and development. this model is based, as has been argued, on cooperation between the two areas, whether in the form of knowledge sharing, the exchange of researchers, the launch of joint research programmes or reciprocal consultations with a view to agreeing positions in the relevant international bodies. i voted in favour of this agreement because i agree with its purpose.
in writing. − article 216 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) states that the union may conclude agreements with one or more third countries or international organisations where the treaties so provide or where the conclusion of an agreement is necessary to achieve, within the framework of the policies of the union, one of the objectives set out in the treaties. pursuant to article 100 (2) in conjunction with article 218 (6) (a) tfeu, the council requested the european commission to take the necessary measures to establish a framework for cooperation with the federal aviation administration (faa) of the united states of america in the field of civil aviation research and development. i am voting in favour of this recommendation because i welcome the fact that the regions are pursuing common objectives in the area of designing new, greener and more efficient air transport systems. i also consider it essential that this agreement be implemented swiftly, as european industry will be able to participate in new cooperation activities with the usa on the basis of transparency, mutual benefit and fair and equitable treatment. i also support the fact that european civil aviation companies have access to new markets, thereby increasing their production capacity and creating more jobs.
in writing. − i welcome this recommendation as it will bring new benefits by simplifying regulatory constraints so that euro banknotes and coins can circulate more easily between euro area member states while ensuring a high level of professionalism and security. in addition, this regulation facilitates transport to member states which are about to introduce the euro, as it is normal to increase the need to transport euros in the changeover. however, it is regrettable that the commission has wanted to unilaterally amend the text without taking account of the opinion of the social partners, as requested by the european parliament.
in writing. − i support the rapporteur on the extension of the provisions contained in her initial report on the professional transport of euro banknotes and coins to the territory of the member states acceding to the euro area.
in writing. the recommendation by sophie auconie concerns a proposal for a council regulation on the extension of the scope of a regulation of the european union, the european parliament and the council on the professional crossborder transport of euro banknotes and coins by road between euro area member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. − it makes perfect sense to extend the scope of the regulation on the professional crossborder road transport of euro banknotes and coins between euro area member states to the territory of those acceding to the euro area.
in writing. − this regulation aims to extend the scope of the proposal for a regulation on the professional crossborder transport of euro banknotes and coins by road between euro area member states (the main proposal) to the territory of member states which are in the process of acceding to the euro area. the period leading up to the changeover to this currency creates a greater need for the transport of cash in notes and coins. the report was approved in committee and welcomes the extension of its scope. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the regulation on the professional crossborder transport of euro cash by road limits its application to member states which have adopted the euro as their currency. however, for the same reasons, it is justified to extend its subjective scope to those states which are in the process of joining the single currency, since the need for crossborder cash transport is already felt in these cases. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome this report on the ec's initiative to create a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding after 2013, combining the european programmes research framework programme, the european institute of technology and the innovation and competitiveness framework programme with cohesion structural funding allocated to research and innovation. however, specific requests are made, in particular as regards the need to separate research funds from the structural funds, which is essential for the implementation of strategy 2020, and new forms of assistance to regions with low performance in this area.
in writing. - i welcome the main proposals of the epp in this report: • increasing the budget of the next framework programme for research and innovation; • coordinating it with the structural funds; • including the 'road to excellence' concept; • creating the conditions for greater involvement of industry, and in particular smes; • promoting the participation of young researchers; • administrative and financial simplification. research and innovation are two fundamental pillars of economic development and job creation in europe. it is crucial to increase the share of funding that is allocated to research and innovation within the overall eu budget. the first objective of the framework programme is to promote excellence. but it is equally important to create the conditions for the participation of small research groups and innovative companies. to this end, the epp has proposed the concept of pathways to excellence. finally, there is an urgent need to simplify access to research funding by developing a culture of trust among all those involved in order to strengthen research and innovation in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the green paper from challenges to opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding, because investments in research, education and innovation, including through the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, are key to economic recovery and job creation, as well as to the definition of a sustainable and inclusive growth model.
in writing. − the european commission has published the green paper for a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding post-2013. this common strategic framework is intended to bring together the existing set of instruments and funding programmes for the development of research and innovation. i believe that the focus on research and innovation will be decisive for the future of the union, for economic recovery and for competitiveness. i am pleased to see that the rapporteur, my colleague marisa matias, whom i congratulate on her work, is proposing the project bonds instrument as a way of boosting research and innovation in the european context, an idea which i have been advocating and which i believe should make its way.
in writing. − this report, by marisa matias, focuses on the green paper from challenges to opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding for the period after 2013. the commission has proposed merging all research-related funds, including the structural funds, but the rapporteur believes that these should be kept separate in order to avoid widening inequalities between the various member states. in addition, it would be desirable to double the amount allocated to eu research and innovation programmes from 2014 onwards. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur that maintaining separate structural funds will make them more effectively used and will prevent them from being diverted to other areas with a greater capacity to absorb resources - such as the cohesion fund - to the detriment of innovation and technological development capable of creating sustainable employment and training that stimulates competitiveness through the retraining of workers.
in writing. - there are positive aspects to this report which we value. some of these correspond to relatively consensual but necessary guidelines, such as improving the efficiency of research and development (r & d) funding at regional, national and eu level. in view of the clear failure to meet the targets of a decade ago for r & d investment, a new horizon is now set to reach 3% of gdp invested in r & d: 2020. that is two decades after this goal was set. but it is foreseeable that unless there is a profound change in the wider political and macroeconomic framework, this objective will hardly be achieved even in 2020. many member states are far from this objective and, worse, are moving away from it rather than towards it. in the current crisis, research, education and innovation are key tools for economic recovery and job creation and for defining a model of sustainable and inclusive growth - commonplace in the discourse but necessary in practice, trampled underfoot by current policies. the rapporteur's call for attention to the situation of great precariousness faced by many scientific workers is pertinent. but the report does not avoid some contradictions, which reflect the majority in this parliament, such as the predominance attributed to the market.
in writing. − a common framework for all funding instruments and programmes, even considering their uneven level of funding and their rooting in the european context, is, in my view, an opportunity to strengthen the european research area and to define a proposal that can effectively articulate this strengthening with a clear convergence strategy. this report proposes a reorganisation of existing instruments and programmes to respond to the challenges facing europe. in addition, and for specific cases, it is proposed to create a new instrument - a european investment bank for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) - and to use project bonds as a complement to the framework presented by the commission. the main objectives of the proposal presented here are stability and convergence. there is no common strategy that can withstand the continuous changing of rules, no strategy can secure investment in research, development and innovation if the endemic inequalities and asymmetries in access to available european funds continue to persist.
in writing. − the european commission has taken the initiative to publish a green paper which seeks to define a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding for the period after 2013. this strategic common framework combines european programmes - in this case the framework programme (fp) for research, the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (cip) - with the structural/cohesion funds dedicated to the fields of research and innovation. in this report, the rapporteur, whom i welcome, is making an effort to reorganize existing instruments and programmes in conjunction with new instruments, with the aim of a strategy of positive sum for the different actors. it is based on the assumption that research and innovation are important for economic growth, which is essentially predictable, and that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. the sustainability of the community area is to a large extent the result of its capacity for research and innovation. however, the data show that there are differences in the incentives for these activities in the various member states, which prevents parallel development of these activities throughout the community. on the other hand, the funds to support these activities are in fact directed towards more developed entities, widening the gap with respect to smaller structures such as small and medium-sized enterprises. community action in this field should seek to ensure that, by seeking the best possible allocation of resources, strong incentives to research and innovation can be provided throughout the community. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission has published the green paper from challenges to opportunities: towards a common strategic framework for eu research and innovation funding with the aim of launching a public debate on the definition of innovation funding in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. i agree with this report, arguing that eu research funds should not be directly linked to the structural and cohesion funds, and that it is the responsibility of the ec to create a multi-fund approach that encourages the creation of synergies between all existing programmes. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider extremely positive the doubling of the eu budget for innovation activities, ensuring greater equity, transparency in the management of funds, increasing administrative simplification and adopting the concept of the road to excellence. i believe that only by involving all the actors in creating regional centres of excellence will we be able to achieve a culture of innovation and make the eu more competitive at international level. finally, i would like to call on the ec to pay particular attention to the outermost regions, since they have to bear higher costs in the context of the environment which make it difficult to perform well in this area of activity.
in writing. − this own-initiative report, which is a follow-up to the 2010 commission report to the ep on the european school system in 2009, attempts to highlight some of the key problems facing european schools today and outlines a path forward. the amendments proposed by the s&d group should be highlighted, requiring that students who have completed a european baccalaureate degree have equal access to european universities under the same conditions as nationals of the education systems of each member state and calling for adequate funding to be ensured for children with learning difficulties, as well as greater attention to children who are repeaters or drop-outs.
in writing. − the european schools play a valuable role in their communities, as they act as promoters of multiculturalism and multilingualism and as models in the protection and promotion of the less widely used languages internationally. the economic crisis has had an impact on the funding of the european schools, and it is therefore necessary to rationalise the costs of these schools. however, this should not affect the education of the children. the budgetary constraints which schools will have to accept must be accompanied by a real increase in their autonomy in management. granting each european school a greater degree of budgetary autonomy, following an evaluation that ensures that this will be beneficial for the schools, can be an effective means of improving the management of the resources allocated to them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that budget cuts must take account of the specific situation of european children and young people attending european schools. the savings cannot compromise the fundamental principles on which the system is based, namely the teaching of pupils' mother tongues, the education of vulnerable children, children with learning difficulties or children with special needs. the european schools are not elitist schools, but a necessity. its mission is to provide education in the mother tongue for pupils whose parents may be forced to change jobs or return to their country of origin.
in writing. - there are currently 14 european schools with 22 778 pupils, of whom 14 292 attend schools in brussels and luxembourg, corresponding to about 63% of the school population. as a parent of pupils who have attended european schools, i know how important they are, but i also know their problems. i admit that in the current economic context it is tempting to cut the budget for european schools, but as i have always maintained, any cut in the education of our children is a cut in our future ability to be competitive. so it's the wrong cut. i am in favour of european schools maintaining their multicultural matrix without losing sight of the real reason for which they were set up: to enable the children of displaced officials to have access to education in their mother tongue and in conditions as close as possible to those they would have in their country of origin.
in writing. - we used to hear that the best thing in the world is children. however, the responsibility for preparing their future is ours. it is therefore essential that we are aware that investing in education is investing in the future of our young people and in an increasingly globalised world. this report examines the european schools system, which has been in operation for more than 50 years. the first european school was founded in luxembourg in october 1953. at present, some 23 000 pupils attend these schools, 63% of whom (around 14 500) attend schools in brussels and luxembourg. the aim behind the creation of these schools was to ensure that the children of officials of the european institutions living abroad have access to education in their mother tongue. its system is sui generis, based on cooperation between the member states and the european union, and it values and promotes multiculturalism. given the significant demand for these schools, also due to eu enlargement, it is essential that they continue to fulfil the objectives for which they were set up. i therefore vote in favour of the report by mr cavada.
in writing. - the european schools (es) were the result of the intention to develop a school network to serve the children of officials of the european institutions who are subject to change of assignment or return to their country of origin by providing them with education in their mother tongue. the report contains positive aspects, which we value. examples are: the defence of the fundamental principles of the european schools, such as mother tongue teaching; the guarantee of equivalent educational conditions for children from all language communities; and the clear and unequivocal statement that the proposed cuts in the budgets of the european schools constitute a serious threat to the quality of education and the good functioning of the european schools, along with opposition to any budget cuts. this position is all the more relevant because, as we have already had occasion to denounce in the portuguese section of the european school of brussels ii (woluwe), measures are being prepared under the pretext of budgetary restrictions which endanger the quality of education, which is unacceptable. but the report also contains some contradictions, such as the defence of the use of so-called 'vehicular languages', and positions which are unfounded, which we do not support, such as the assertion that the current intergovernmental legal status of the ee has reached its limits and requires profound changes.
in writing. - these european schools were the result of the intention to develop a school network to serve the children of officials of the european institutions who are subject to change of assignment or return to their country of origin by providing them with education in their mother tongue. the report contains positive aspects, which we value. examples are: the defence of the fundamental principles of the european schools, such as teaching in the mother tongue; the guarantee of equal educational conditions for children of all language communities; the clear and unequivocal statement that the proposed cuts in their budgets constitute a serious threat to the quality of education and the proper functioning of the european schools, as well as opposition to any budget cuts. it is a position all the more important when, under the pretext of budgetary constraints, measures are being prepared which endanger the quality of education, which is unacceptable. however, the report also contains some contradictions, such as the defence of the use of so-called 'vehicular languages', and positions which are unfounded, which we do not follow, such as the claim that the current intergovernmental legal status of these schools has reached its limits.
in writing. − european schools are essential for the successful integration of the children of all those who need to go abroad to pursue a profession in the european institutions. these schools were set up to ensure that the children of staff of the european institutions who are called upon to work and live abroad in a different cultural environment have access to education in their mother tongue, so that these children can, at any time, join an educational establishment in their country of origin. it should be borne in mind that in all member states education is free of charge and that the staff of the institutions are only able to enroll their children in these specific establishments if they wish to ensure that they receive education in their mother tongue. it is clear that, more than 50 years after the creation of the first european school, the system must evolve and adapt to new economic and social requirements. it should, however, continue to be an inspirational model for national education systems, promoting european citizenship and encouraging the development of mobility.
in writing. the first european school was set up in luxembourg in october 1953 on the initiative of a group of officials. this educational experience, which brought together children from different mother tongues, was quickly considered positive and 14 european schools were founded in different cities, which, in the current nomenclature, correspond to the category of so-called type 1 schools. in a time of crisis and widespread cuts, it is essential that exceptional situations are created for areas such as education, where the principle should be to invest more to reap the rewards in the next economic cycle. the fundamental principles on which the european school system is based must be maintained, ensuring that teaching is continued by teachers in their mother tongue and exploiting the necessary mechanisms to ensure that the quality of education provided in these institutions is not undermined. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree that, despite their rather limited scope, the european schools (which are, as is well known, mainly intended for the children of officials and other servants of the community institutions) reflect a commitment to the european project in the field of education. because of the special circumstances which led to their founding, these are educational models based on a compromise between, on the one hand, respect for the mother tongues of students, who may at any time have to return to their countries of origin, and, on the other hand, education for multilingualism. however, the need for active cooperation by the member states should be emphasised, without which these educational establishments would face unusual operational difficulties.
in writing. - in line with the s&d group, i believe that the exchange of good practice is absolutely essential. on the other hand, it is important to note that it takes too long to manage and control the complexity of compliance rules and the number of errors. there is a need for an appropriate balance between simplification and stability of rules and procedures, and the emphasis should be on outcome payments rather than input controls. in addition, a greater focus should be given to fraud rather than formal irregularities and there should be differentiated treatment for irregularities, allowing for flexibility depending on the seriousness of the irregularity identified.
in writing. − european regional policy is a key instrument for promoting economic and social cohesion, enabling the union to reduce regional disparities. the union's cohesion policy is thus essential to promote real convergence and stimulate development, quality employment and social progress, while also serving to benefit the less developed regions. however, there is a need for greater synergy and complementarity between all funds under shared management. flexibility between the erdf and the esf should be encouraged to facilitate the financing of integrated projects, while respecting the specificities and objectives of each of these funds. furthermore, it is essential to further harmonise the rules and procedures and to simplify the application system so as to encourage the participation of potential beneficiaries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future eu cohesion policy, as i considered it necessary to strike a balance between simplification and stability of rules and procedures, and to identify and disseminate good practice with a view to optimising the funds available.
in writing. - this report, by michel theurer, looks at the future cohesion policy of the european union, taking into account the experience of absorbing the structural and cohesion funds under the previous community support frameworks. the principle behind the application of the structural funds is to improve the lives of citizens. however, member states face many problems in applying them. from delays in transferring funds which force institutions to turn to banks to pay commitments to companies whose interest is not financed to excessive bureaucracy (complicated and inconsistent procedures, changes in rules, etc.) and lack of financial allocation for the national counterpart, everything contributes to entangling this process. the eu should support those countries which, due to lack of knowledge, are unable to absorb the amounts allocated to them, by sending a team of experts. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report and hope that it will help to improve its implementation by simplifying its rules, which are essential to help the most disadvantaged countries develop and help to reduce regional disparities within the eu.
in writing. - this is a measure of what a member state and its regions are able to spend on structural and cohesion funds, increasing the use of eu funds for economic and social cohesion. despite some improvements in reducing regional inequalities, the report recognises that very important differences remain in the level of economic, social and territorial development. the contradictions and limitations associated with the absorption of these funds have long been denounced by us. they are well known in the member states. in particular, those who suffer most from the effects of regional inequalities. national co-financing rates have been one of the main barriers to better absorption, and it is crucial to create the conditions for member states to have full absorption and correct application of community funds. the report recognises the effect of the so-called austerity measures on the ability to co-finance projects, particularly in member states with a larger number of disadvantaged regions, which represents a serious limitation on access to these funds. it is also understandable that there is concern about the need for national regulation, the elimination of bureaucracy and complex procedures for accessing funds.
in writing. − this is a report that seeks to measure what a member state and its regions are able to spend on structural and cohesion funds, increasing the use of eu funds for economic and social cohesion. despite some improvements in reducing regional inequalities, the report recognises that very important differences remain in the level of economic, social and territorial development. we have denounced the contradictions and limitations associated with the absorption of these funds, which are well known to the member states. in particular, those who suffer most from the effects of regional inequalities. national co-financing rates have been one of the main barriers to better absorption, and it is crucial to create the conditions for member states to have full absorption and correct application of community funds. the report recognises the negative effect of the so-called austerity measures on the ability to co-finance projects, particularly in member states with a larger number of disadvantaged regions, which represents a serious limitation on access to these funds. understandably, there is concern about the need for national regulation, the elimination of red tape and complex procedures for accessing funds.
in writing. − the absorption of the structural and cohesion funds has been recognised as the main concern with regard to the implementation of the european union's cohesion policy since the late 1990s. many member states have had difficulty absorbing structural and cohesion funds from the eu budget, especially in the years immediately following accession. the rules on the structural and cohesion funds are complex and therefore difficult to comply with, leading to errors. thus, standards and processes should be simplified to achieve higher uptake rates, reduce errors and increase efficiency. at the same time, a balance needs to be struck between simplification and stability of rules and procedures. i think it is more appropriate to give greater attention to fraud rather than formal irregularities and to a more differentiated treatment of irregularities which allows some flexibility depending on the seriousness of the irregularity identified. a better balance should be struck between, on the one hand, the rules and procedures required to ensure the legality and regularity of eu expenditure and, on the other hand, making cohesion policy more performance-oriented and more cost-efficient.
in writing. − this own-initiative report assesses the problems, underlying reasons and good practices during the current programming period (2007-2013) and draws lessons for future eu cohesion policy. it sets out a series of measures to improve the absorption capacity of the funds, i.e. to improve the member state's ability to use the financial resources allocated to it by the structural and cohesion funds in an effective and efficient manner. the proposal is to focus on simplification combined with increased investment by the member states in the preparation of projects and the drawing up of technical work plans to better manage the structural and cohesion funds. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the structural and cohesion funds are a privileged instrument for the balanced economic development of the community area. the analysis of the real impact of the use of the funds by the states, in order to assess their capacity to meet the purposes for which they were allocated, is a necessary condition for the development of a more effective future policy, with less waste of resources. the need to find faster and more effective decision-making procedures, to adapt the degree of control to the aid granted and, in this context, to combat genuine situations of fraud, is emphasised. these are points which the rapporteur has made very clearly, and i have therefore voted in favour of them.
in writing. − the absorption of the structural funds is a major concern in the implementation of cohesion policy, and an analysis of the difficulties encountered by the member states in the effective application of the funds is needed to draw lessons for the future. the regi committee, of which i am a member, has approved a set of proposals based on a diagnosis of the reasons behind the absorption problems, such as the initial problems at the start of the programming period, the financial problems resulting from the crisis, the new regulatory requirements and the organisational and control requirements, as well as the issue of insufficient qualification of human resources and the delays in information technology systems. the proposals put forward in the document adopted by parliament today stress the need to simplify rules and procedures and to focus on results-generating payments and a better balance between rules and procedures and a more performance-oriented and more efficient cohesion policy. they do not, however, forget the wide differences in absorption capacity between member states, suggesting the creation of a programme for the exchange of good practice and highlighting the importance of governance at various levels.
in writing. the report welcomes the creation of a 24/7 emergency response centre as a simplification of the current mic and calls on the commission to propose a civil protection force as soon as possible and to improve coordination between all actors. i stress the need for greater simplification and transparency, as well as better use of existing monitoring and prevention tools, and the development of a telecommunications capacity and comprehensive communication strategy, making the distinction between humanitarian aid and military activities clearer. the s&d group also rightly stresses that humanitarian aid is not a crisis management tool and must therefore be provided independently of all political considerations.
in writing. - the number of annual disasters has increased fivefold over the last 35 years. in europe alone, these disasters have killed almost 90 000 people, affected the lives of more than 29 million people and caused losses of €211 billion over the last 20 years. the lisbon treaty introduced new legal bases for civil protection and humanitarian aid with the aim of ensuring a rapid and effective response to disasters inside and outside europe. this report calls for greater efficiency at all stages of the european disaster management cycle, including prevention, preparedness, response and recovery, as well as optimising economic resources in times of austerity. it stressed the need to establish a genuine emergency response centre, which would operate at all times and in consultation with the member states, making decisions on the means to be mobilised in the event of a disaster, with a view to ensuring immediate and effective assistance to victims. it calls for better coordination between all actors to avoid overlapping and duplication of efforts. it also advocates simplifying the european civil protection mechanism. so i voted in favour.
in writing. - there has been a dramatic increase in the number and severity of natural and man-made disasters worldwide, i.e. forest fires, floods and landslides, earthquakes, industrial and nuclear accidents, terrorist attacks, etc. unfortunately, the eu and its member states are not immune to such disasters either. therefore, given the increasing pace of climate change and the increased likelihood of more frequent and more intense natural disasters, it is urgent to strengthen the eu's response capacity, inside and outside its borders, in order to improve its effectiveness, efficiency, coherence and visibility. a shift to a predictable system under the eu civil protection mechanism is needed, as well as the introduction of a system of monitoring, supervision and development in the framework of disaster assistance operations. it is important to develop a protection system based on the sharing and rationalisation of existing resources, avoiding duplication and overlapping of efforts, gaining in terms of coherence, effectiveness, speed of assistance and cost reduction. it is also urgent to make the necessary amendments to the regulation establishing the solidarity fund, which is characterised by rigid deadlines and procedures and contains assumptions which make it difficult and delay its mobilisation.
in writing. - it is clear that greater european coordination and cooperation in the field of civil protection and humanitarian aid will tend to enhance the capacity for collective response to the problems facing the various member states, particularly as regards the use of human and material resources scattered throughout the member states. my country, which is regularly plagued by forest fires, has already been confronted on several occasions with the limitation of these resources and has felt the need to be able to count on external aid. i believe that disaster and humanitarian emergencies test european solidarity and the ability to find quick and effective responses to border situations that often go beyond the borders of a single state. without renouncing the prerogatives which the latter cannot fail to enjoy, i welcome this initiative and hope that it will bear fruit in line with the expectations and the concrete needs of the people.
in writing. − this report, by elisabetta gardini, addresses the need to strengthen european capacity in disaster situations, especially in the field of civil protection and humanitarian aid. in recent times, we have seen a great increase in the number of disasters, such as those that have occurred in haiti and japan. in europe, we've had massive fires, the ash cloud from the icelandic volcano and landslides and floods due to heavy rains. in fact, in the last 20 years, the number of disasters has increased fivefold, claiming almost 100,000 lives. these are large-scale phenomena requiring effective and properly coordinated responses. the european union needs to take preventive action, such as tackling climate change, but also to play a coordinating role among all member states who have responsibility in this area so that we do not become entangled in a tangle of responsibilities that makes it difficult to respond quickly and effectively. i welcome the adoption of this report which focuses on the most vulnerable areas such as mountain, island and coastal areas, revealing a great human and financial concern, and i welcome the creation of a european civil protection force.
in writing. − preparedness, response and recovery are stages in the disaster management cycle where cooperation between states can and should exist. in view of the transboundary nature of disasters and the complexity, scale and cost of the material resources that need to be mobilised in the event of major disasters. such cooperation shall be based on solidarity and mutual assistance and may also include a sharing of resources. in any event, the sovereignty of states should be respected and there should be no duplication or overlap of chains of command which should be based in the competent national or regional authorities. the response to disasters cannot be a pretext for external interventionism, for the assertion of economic and geostrategic interests, or for military interventions and occupations, hidden under the guise of humanitarian interventions. there are already sad examples of this reality and, more than that, worrying signs that it may worsen in the future. the recent change in nato's so-called strategic concept, which illegitimately and unacceptably broadens the possibilities for intervention by this military (war) organisation, is worthy of note. we believe that the framework for disaster response proposed in this report does not safeguard all these aspects, which are essential to us.
in writing. - this report underestimates the importance of preventive policies, i.e. those which can prevent, in some cases, and minimise, in others, the effects of disasters. prevention is achieved through environmental, agricultural, energy, industrial, water and land-use planning and management policies. how many forest fires could have been avoided if the common agricultural policy had not contributed to the desertification of the countryside, to the reduction of our agriculture, our agro-agriculture and rural life? the eu must urgently provide more funding for de facto preventive policies and for prevention and alert measures. strengthening european response capacity must involve environmental protection, changes to common policies, environmental education and awareness, increased response capacity in individual states and planned cooperation between neighbouring states, including the existence of comprehensive risk charts and alert and response mechanisms. the idea of a special forest fire unit does not seem interesting or feasible. greater mutual help and cooperation is possible and desirable. when the usefulness of the european space policy and the global monitoring programme for the environment and safety is mentioned, there is a danger that, under the pretext of the environment, security concerns are overlooked.
in writing. - we live in a time of increasing disasters. worldwide, the number of disasters recorded in a single year has increased fivefold in the last 35 years, to nearly 400 today. over the past 20 years, disasters in europe have killed almost 90 000 people, affected more than 29 million and caused economic losses of €211 billion. in order to further strengthen the european response to disaster situations, it is necessary to submit as soon as possible a proposal for the establishment of an eu civil protection force based on the emergency response centre. the need for better coordination between all actors is also essential to avoid overlapping and duplication of efforts, both at political and operational level, as each must operate autonomously in order not to obstruct the provision of rapid and effective aid to disaster victims.
in writing. - the present report, which i voted in favour of, presents a set of solutions to optimise coordinated action in the event of disasters. the rapporteur calls for greater efficiency in prevention, preparedness, response and recovery, as well as optimisation of economic resources in times of austerity. in fact, studies show that around 90% of european citizens expect the eu to do more to help their country in the event of a disaster. this concern is enshrined in the lisbon treaty, which introduces new legal bases for civil protection and humanitarian aid to ensure a rapid and effective response to disasters inside and outside the eu. in order to reinforce these proposals, i join the rapporteur in calling on the commission to present as soon as possible a draft for the establishment of an eu civil protection force based on the emergency response centre.
in writing. - the frequency with which natural disasters have occurred points to the need to provide for reactive mechanisms that allow the population to be reached in a short space of time. not only the more fortuitous volcanic eruptions are considered, but also the increasingly frequent floods, storms, earthquakes or forest fires. in this context, it is justified to link the resources available in the various member states and a central coordinating body, thus enhancing the efficiency of any community action. in this context, the creation of the european emergency response centre, resulting from the merger between the information and surveillance centre and the humanitarian aid service's crisis office, should be highlighted. these are instruments which, in general, allow not only direct assistance to european citizens but also the possibility for the eu to act internationally in a competent and responsible manner. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - natural disasters in europe over the past 20 years have killed more than 90 000 people, affected 29 000 more and caused economic losses of €221 billion. the report, which was tabled by the ep, is intended to serve as a basis for the commission's legislative proposal, which will be presented later this autumn. i therefore support the commission's proposal to improve and strengthen the eu's response capacity by creating a european emergency response capacity based on member states' assets and experts, and the creation of a european emergency response centre as a simplification of the current civil protection mechanism. the system also needs to be de-bureaucratized by creating a european civil protection force that coordinates all the actors involved at european, national, regional and local level, in order to speed up aid processes and avoid duplication of effort. i come from a region, madeira, which, due to its conditions, is too exposed to natural disasters, as happened in the storm of february 2010, and as such i support the adoption of political, but essentially operational, measures to minimise the effects of these.
in writing. − i welcome this report as it emphasises the new benefits of simplifying regulatory constraints so that euro banknotes and coins can circulate more easily between euro area member states, ensuring a high level of professionalism and security. however, it is regrettable that the commission has wanted to unilaterally amend the text without taking account of the opinion of the social partners as requested by the european parliament.
in writing. - in view of the continued fragmentation of the euro cash transport market, national regulatory rules should be reviewed and simplified in order to allow for more efficient and faster circulation between the member states which have adopted the single currency. however, in addition to further simplification, the provisions in force in each member state concerning the transport of valuables must also be carefully considered. i believe that the agreement now reached allows for this balance, both in the choice of transport mode and in the public safety rules required and the social conditions achieved by the sector's officials.
in writing. − this report, by ms sophie auconie, is concerned with a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the professional crossborder road transport of euro banknotes and coins between euro area member states. the aim of this proposal is to facilitate the crossborder movement of euro cash between member states which have adopted this currency by defining clear and operational rules. the proposal for a regulation provides for five modes of transport for banknotes and two modes for transporting coins, from which each member state chooses the one best suited to its situation. the issue of the safety of this type of transport has not been forgotten, both for transport policemen and for the population, encouraging the use of the intelligent system of banknote neutralization as a deterrent to attacks on vehicles transporting value. i therefore vote in favour of this report and hope that it will help to facilitate the transport of valuables between member states, thus providing greater security for european citizens and their valuables.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a european commission regulation is to facilitate the crossborder movement of euro cash, without prejudice to the different regulatory arrangements which member states may choose to apply to the movement of value. the rapporteur believes that this regulation will simplify the regulatory constraints in order to allow for a better circulation of euro coins and banknotes between the member states which have adopted the euro, also taking into account its contribution to stricter requirements in terms of public safety, both for transport controllers and for the general public. as the report states, the market for transporting euro cash remains very fragmented, despite the introduction of euro coins and banknotes dating back to 2002. the considerable heterogeneity of national rules in this field makes it very difficult for professional freight forwarders to provide crossborder services. it is appropriate to consider that the use of the intelligent banknote neutralisation system should be encouraged in the future as it helps to avoid the spiral of violence in attacks on vehicles transporting valuables.
in writing. − as the report says, the euro cash transport market remains very fragmented, despite the introduction of euro coins and banknotes dating back to 2002. the considerable heterogeneity of national rules in this field makes it very difficult for professional freight forwarders to provide crossborder services. the commission's proposal should facilitate the cross-border transport of euro cash, without, however, prejudicing the different regulatory arrangements which member states choose to apply to the transport of value. the purpose of this regulation is to simplify regulatory constraints in order to facilitate the circulation of euro coins and banknotes between member states which have adopted the euro, while also taking into account its contribution to stricter public safety requirements for both transport controllers and the public. the rapporteur therefore considers that the minimum experience required for a company to operate in the cross-border sector should be thorough, and stresses that the use of the intelligent system for neutralising banknotes should be encouraged in the future, as it avoids the spiral of violence that is seen in attacks on vehicles transporting valuables.
in writing. − the euro cash transport market remains lacking the desired homogeneity, despite the introduction of euro coins and banknotes dating back to 2002. this is accentuated by the national rules in this field, which make it very difficult for professional freight forwarders to provide crossborder services. this regulation therefore aims to simplify the regulatory restrictions referred to in order to allow for a better circulation of euro coins and banknotes between member states that have adopted the euro. the cross-border transport of euro cash should be facilitated, without prejudice to the different regulatory arrangements that member states may choose to apply to the transport of value.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is based on a proposal from the european commission, the result of a long consultation process, which i believe is balanced. the aim is to facilitate the cross-border movement of euro cash, without, however, prejudicing the different regulatory arrangements for the movement of values in the different member states. the commission has proposed a number of transport modes, altering the rules of the sector without, however, degrading the social conditions of officials in the transport of goods.
in writing. - the regulation of the crossborder cash transport market must, from a technical point of view, require a clear regulatory framework adapted to the special characteristics of transport operators. only in this way can distortions of its operation by artificial barriers to competition be avoided. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. these are points in the proposal for a regulation, which i therefore voted in favour of.
in writing. - according to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the ep has to decide on proposals put forward by the commission on dual-use technology, i.e. goods that can be used for civilian or military goods. it is believed that by controlling such exports, the proliferation of weapons is being prevented. it is essential to reflect on how the european union can most effectively be an example in leading a movement against the proliferation of weapons, which is particularly important given its geopolitical and geoterritorial characteristics, especially after successive enlargements to the east.
in writing. - dual-use products, goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, such as chemicals which can be used for fertilisers or to prepare bombs, computer technology but used to guide missiles, are today a highly sensitive matter. the control of exports of dual-use items and technologies at european level aims to ensure compliance with the international commitments of the eu and its member states on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. the main function of these international export control regimes is to update the lists of products subject to controls. to date, these lists are almost automatically transposed into eu law, with little or no involvement of the european parliament. i welcome the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission under the new framework agreement, which will be crucial to making the community's dual-use regulation more transparent and democratic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european parliament's amendments to regulation no 428/2009 make the eu's dual-use regime, i.e. goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes, more democratic, transparent and secure. the amended regulation will also contribute to enhancing the union's image in international export control regimes, which are an important model for the development and practical application of eu legislation in this field.
in writing. − dual-use goods are all products, software and technology which can be used for civil or military purposes. as i have already said, the type of goods in question warrants particular attention and care to the way in which they are moved and used, as well as strict compliance with the international conventions applicable to them and the permanent updating of the list of products covered by that classification. the proposal aims to establish a community system of control of exports of such products and technologies, and therefore the emphasis must be on transparency and security, even if the products covered by the proposal to amend the regulation are destined for countries which do not present any particular danger.
in writing. - this report, by jörg leichtfried, is based on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1334/2000 establishing a community regime for the control of exports of dual-use goods and technology, i.e. those which have a use both civilian and military. this is a very sensitive matter, because we are talking about products which could enable weapons of mass destruction to be manufactured, thus jeopardizing the safety of people and property. this process dates back to december 2008, when the commission presented to the council its first proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1334/2000 with a view to adding six new annexes. the amendments now introduced strengthen the security and control of exports of these dual-use items. i welcome the adoption of this report which is aimed at making the community's dual-use regimes more transparent and, for the safety of european citizens, at preventing their use by unauthorised persons and/or organisations.
in writing. − dual-use technological products are all those products (including software and technologies) which can be used for civilian or military purposes in parallel. the treaty of lisbon provides for the clarification of the eu's competences in the field of international trade, and is therefore a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in this area and the role, competence and responsibility of the european parliament within the eu institutional framework for decision-making. the community's dual-use regime should be organised in a more transparent and democratic way; the full participation of the european parliament, through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission under the new framework agreement, will be crucial to achieving this objective.
in writing. - this report concerns the community export control regime for dual-use goods and technology, i.e. goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. the community's dual-use regime should be organised in a more transparent and democratic way. indeed, the full participation of the european parliament, through the implementation of the obligations arising from the lisbon treaty and the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission under the new framework agreement, will be crucial to achieving this objective. in view of the fact that the european parliament's powers are being strengthened in the sense of greater scrutiny of export authorizations for these sensitive products, which may have secondary uses, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − dual-use products are characterised by the fact that they can be used for both civilian and military purposes. in this area, a network of controls is provided to control, as far as possible, the risks of use for illegal purposes. in this context, i would like to stress, together with the rapporteur, the need for the european parliament to take an active stance on the system of control of exports of dual-use goods and technologies, by strengthening the mechanisms of control, transparency and democratic legitimacy.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may 2009 introduced several significant changes in the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use goods and technology in the european union, i.e. in the control of goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes. i agree with this report because it establishes effective control of exports of union products or their transit in the eu and is applied in a uniform manner, establishing a level playing field for all european exporters in accordance with the principles of international trade, thus avoiding unfair competition between eu exporters. the report aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry, simplify the current legal system and create its own rules and procedures, and it is important to stress the importance of establishing a secure and codified system for the exchange of information between member states. finally, i consider it essential to draw up triannual monitoring reports on this regulation, to carry out a thorough analysis of the impact of its application and to be able to make any suggestions for amendments that will improve the control of exports of dual-use goods and technologies.
in writing. − tourism plays a key role in creating jobs and fostering development and cohesion in the eu. it is vital to strengthen its competitiveness in the face of strong competition from other destinations, especially as the lisbon treaty creates a new framework for european tourism policy with new powers. i welcome this report as it presents an integrated and comprehensive approach to a european tourism strategy with clear and ambitious objectives. i would like to stress my proposals in the regi opinion on territorial cohesion: the need to promote cultural tourism, as is evident in the unesco heritage sites and their exuberant natural wealth, in the natura 2000 sites in the eu and the need to take account of the importance of accessibility, in particular the extension to these regions of the objectives of the trans-european transport network.
in writing. - tourism is a sector of crucial importance for europe, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, new prerogatives are conferred on the eu, including the coordination of member states' actions in the tourism sector in order to create a climate conducive to the sustainable development of the sector. this report argues for the need to develop a diversified, sustainable and accessible tourism sector, with a particular focus on vocational training and qualification as a way of meeting the challenge of an effective tourism industrial policy. the following points are emphasised: - the need for strong investment in innovation and ict as essential elements for increasing the competitiveness of tourism enterprises. - the granting of tourist visas is simplified and standardized among member states. - the development of a sustainable transport system that promotes mobility. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have adopted the euro by a factor of two. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − for europe to maintain its role as the world's leading tourist destination, it is essential to develop an ambitious tourism policy with a coordinated approach and a framework for action to strengthen the competitiveness and capacity for sustainable growth in this sector. the commission is to be congratulated for presenting 21 proposals for action and their implementation plan, which should identify the priority actions and their timetable. the proposed framework for action is based on four pillars: stimulating competitiveness by supporting innovation and ict, improving vocational skills and training and increasing seasonal flexibility; promoting sustainable, diversified, responsible, quality and accessible tourism for all; consolidating the eu's image at international level, while coordinating and simplifying the procedures for issuing tourist visas, improving the attractiveness of our tourist destinations; maximising the potential of the policies and financial instruments available, contributing to the competitiveness of the sector. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation of goods and services, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment for all.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on europe, the world's number one tourist destination new policy framework for european tourism, because it contains relevant proposals to promote sustainable, responsible and quality tourism in the eu, in particular the proposal to create european brands such as the european brand, the ecolabel or the quality tourism brand.
in writing. − tourism is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, and a sector of crucial importance for employment, regional and local development, cohesion, environment and culture policies. i come from a country which has immense tourist potential, both because of its natural and climatic conditions and because of the diversity of the dimensions it offers of cultural tourism, rural tourism, environmental tourism, religious tourism, gastronomic and wine tourism and urban tourism. that is why i think it is a good thing that europe is the world's number one tourist destination, because in europe we find a huge diversity of tourist offerings, which cannot be replicated in other parts of the world, and which we have an obligation to take advantage of.
in writing. − at eu level, tourism is the third largest socioeconomic activity, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, playing a major role in the development of the most disadvantaged regions and helping to promote europe's image worldwide. as a 'old' continent, europe has a wide range of tourist attractions, ranging from archaeological, monumental and historical heritage, nature (national parks in the panparks network), religious, rural, thermal tourism, etc., which make it the world's number one tourist destination. in addition, the tourism sector, which is mainly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, enhances competitiveness and the capacity for sustainable growth in line with the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy. i welcome the adoption of the measures proposed in this report to establish a new policy framework for the tourism sector, stimulating competitiveness, diversifying supply, supporting innovation, improving professional skills and extending the season. in short, by promoting sustainable tourism that strengthens the european union's image internationally as a diverse and excellent tourist destination.
in writing. the report highlights the importance of tourism to the european economy, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment in all member states. it is the third most important socioeconomic activity in the eu, and a sector made up mostly of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the rapporteur advocates an integrated strategy for tourism, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity. while the report does contain positive aspects which could help to develop the activities of companies in the sector, such as the collection and dissemination of good practice, or the defence of support for certain specific sectors such as environmental tourism and rural tourism, or the defence of a diversification of tourist activities which could reduce seasonality and job insecurity in the sector, the truth is that we cannot ignore the general context which currently conditions tourism activity: namely, that of a deep economic and social crisis, with prospects of worsening on the horizon, particularly in countries such as portugal. a crisis which affects all economic activity, and especially tourism, and which has led to the bankruptcy of thousands of smes. what is required, therefore, is first and foremost a fundamental change in the economic policies in force.
in writing. - tourism is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment. it is a sector of crucial importance because, in addition to aiming at the integration and development of the less developed regions, it is able to reconcile growth, sustainable development and ethics in the countries of the union and is also an essential instrument for strengthening, disseminating and promoting our image in the world. the creation of a new policy framework for european tourism, which will continue to promote europe as the world's leading tourist destination, is therefore essential.
in writing. - europe is the world's number one tourist destination. this report aims to create the new policy framework for european tourism. tourism, as the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, is a vitally important sector because it aims not only at integration but also at the development of the least developed regions, reconciling growth and sustainable development in the countries of the union. it is also an essential tool for reinforcing, disseminating and promoting our image in the world. the measures include a focus on training, innovation, tourist visas (raising awareness among member states to coordinate and simplify the procedures for issuing tourist visas, and also considering the possibility of creating common consular sections in order to reduce bureaucratic differences and administrative costs), european brands, transport, visibility of europe, rural and agricultural tourism, nature tourism, coastal and beach tourism, cruise tourism, thermal and health tourism. i believe that we are dealing with a document of great importance for the european economy and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - tourism is seen in many ways as an opportunity for the european economy. in fact, member states, having strong links of integration with each other, are able to offer at the same time tourist products of a very diverse nature, appealing to different categories of public. in another dimension, it is also a privileged way of promoting 'europe' as a space of excellence, of disseminating its cultural values and standards. however, the commitment to tourism requires networking between the various states, the search for high professional qualifications for tourism operators and the creation of identification standards, such as brands that effectively highlight the best value offered by the european area. i voted in favour of this guideline because i agree with it.
in writing. - tourism is currently the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of total employment, and is the main source of income for the rups, particularly in madeira, my home region. the adoption of this report in this house is the first political step towards the creation of a genuine european tourism policy, as enshrined in article 195 of the lisbon treaty. the report focuses on the need for diversified, sustainable, quality and accessible tourism. as such, i stress the importance and need for a requalification of the sector in order to keep the eu as the world's number one tourist destination, and at the same time ensure sustainable and more lasting tourism for generations to come. however, there are challenges that need to be addressed to enable the sector to grow and adapt to the current constraints. overcoming the challenges requires a clear action plan with a well-defined timetable and, above all, with appropriate funding. i therefore believe that it will be important to take account of the tourism sector in the next multiannual financial framework, with a focus on micro-enterprises and smes, in order to encourage the growth of a sector with the potential to minimise the effects of the economic crisis.
in writing. - i approve this report as there is an urgent need to improve road safety, knowing that 35 000 people died in road accidents in 2009 and 1 500 000 were injured in road accidents. the committee on transport has already rightly called attention to a wider range of measures and to the need for better coordination at all political levels in order to significantly reduce the number of deaths and people who suffer accidents and injuries. i also support the integrated approach and the main objectives of the european commission's 2011 road safety policy guidelines, although i agree with the majority of s&d group members who argue that these guidelines fall short of ambition.
in writing. - in recent years, european roads have become safer. between 2001 and 2009, the number of fatalities fell by 36%. in 2009, more than 35 000 people died on eu roads and 1 500 000 were injured, often leading to permanent disability. the cost of road accidents to society is estimated at around €130 billion per year. this report, which i supported, recommends the mandatory installation of alcohol locks, which prevent drivers from starting their cars in the event of a drunken driving accident, for drivers who have already been penalized for driving under the influence of alcohol. these devices should become mandatory for all commercial passenger and cargo vehicles and the commission should present a proposal for a directive to this effect by 2013. the commission proposes to introduce an eu-wide speed limit of 30 km/h in residential areas without a cycle lane. it called for the urgent drawing up of a new european road safety action programme. the commission is proposing to set up an eu road safety coordinator by 2014 to help member states implement the european action programme.
in writing. −despite efforts at european level, the number of road deaths remains alarmingly high (35 000 deaths in 2009 and 1.5 million serious injuries). i welcome the communication presented by the european commission on a european road safety area, as i consider it vital to make a thorough and coordinated investment in improving road safety education, road infrastructure, emergency services and rescue services, and the application and enforcement of traffic rules. if it is true that these measures must be taken as close as possible to the citizen, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is also true that a coherent and integrated approach at european level is urgent and necessary. i congratulate parliament on the report it has produced and share the view that it is a matter of priority to set up a european road safety coordinator to coordinate action between the commission and the member states, to promote road safety initiatives and synergies, to exchange best practice and to link up the relevant political and academic levels. i also support the objective of halving the total number of deaths by 2020, with the long-term objective of zero deaths.
in writing. − although the number of road fatalities in the eu fell by 36% between 2001 and 2009, the truth is that in 2009 35 000 people died on europe's roads and 1.5 million suffered injuries, many of them serious, resulting in permanent injuries. using a strikingly clear visual image, the report states that the number of road deaths in 2009 would be "equivalent to the crash of about 250 medium-sized commercial airliners full of passengers. a scenario that you can't even imagine. "unimaginable, indeed, but one that continues to happen in the face of our collective passivity. i come from a country where road accidents are becoming alarmingly frequent, and i can only support all measures to reduce accidents and improve road safety.
in writing. - the preservation of human life is the highest value we can defend. death, under any circumstances, even at the end of a long and productive life, causes us deep distress. this situation revolts us when it occurs in young people or in situations that could be avoided. in the latter case, there are the thousands of road deaths. in recent years, measures taken by member states have achieved a significant reduction in this slaughter: 36% between 2001 and 2009. yet, in 2009, 35,000 people were killed and about 1.5 million were injured. these are too high numbers to be indifferent. so there's a lot to do. the aim of the commission's present proposal is to halve these figures by 2020. it is necessary to improve driver education, to harmonise rules across the eu, to avoid driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs and to avoid using mobile phones. i welcome the adoption of this report which aims to improve european road safety policy over the next decade (2011-2020) in order to reduce the number of accidents. as europeans, we all have an obligation to cooperate in reducing the number of victims on our roads.
in writing. - there is no doubt that in recent years europe's roads have become much safer. between 2001 and 2009, the number of road fatalities in the eu fell by 36%. the third european road safety action programme 2001-2010 has made a decisive contribution to this development. since 2001, almost 80 000 lives have been saved thanks to the progress that has been made. the aim of halving the number of deaths has not been achieved, but these figures are very encouraging. despite this, in 2009 35 000 people still died on europe's roads and 1.5 million suffered injuries, often resulting in permanent disability. the social and economic costs of these road accidents are enormous (approximately eur 130 billion in 2009). in addition to the human losses, there is the mourning of the families, the suffering of the wounded and the dramatic setbacks in the lives of those affected.
in writing. − according to the data presented in this report, which are not disputed, in recent years europe's roads have become substantially safer. between 2001 and 2009, there was a 36% reduction in the number of road fatalities in the eu. the third european road safety action programme 2001-2010 has made a decisive contribution to this development. since 2001, almost 80 000 lives have been saved thanks to the progress that has been made. in this context, i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a series of complementary measures to continue to improve road safety in the eu.
in writing. - despite the progressive improvement in technology, road accidents remain a very substantial cause of death. for this reason, the effort to reduce the number of road deaths has been taken up as an eu objective for many years. it is therefore necessary to adopt measures to reduce these deaths by seeking to reduce the number of fatal accidents to zero. i voted in favour of this resolution because i share this concern.
in writing. − statistical data for 2009 show a black number of people killed on european roads: over 35 000 deaths and 1.5 million people suffering serious injuries, often resulting in permanent disability. the european parliament, having noted these figures, calls for the drawing up of an action plan for road safety as a matter of urgency. among the measures in the report, i would like to highlight the harmonization of traffic signs and rules and the alcohol tax in the eu. it is also suggested that alcolocks be installed in commercial passenger and freight vehicles and that learning methods be more demanding and lifelong. the objectives set for european roads are ambitious, but they are necessary because of the loss of life that road safety costs. the coordination between the member states and the commission must be the cornerstone of the whole strategy, and i am therefore in favour of the creation of a road safety coordinator within the commission for multi-level coordination. it is also important that member states improve their statistical indicators so that they can progressively harmonise them and focus on smart vehicles.
in writing. - i approve this report which draws attention to the fact that large dams have failed to produce enough electricity, provide the necessary water supply and control flood damage. efforts to mitigate these losses have not been successful. overall, in order to improve this scenario, i call for a comprehensive, transparent and participatory assessment, taking into account the full range of options available to reduce the impacts of floods and meeting water and energy needs, with priorities based on respect for ecosystems, human rights and making existing systems more effective and sustainable.
in writing. − water is a scarce natural resource, which raises equity concerns in its distribution. there is a need to rethink the management of freshwater resources in the context of climate change. in africa, only 5 percent of cultivated land is irrigated, less than 10 percent of its hydropower potential is tapped, and only 58 percent of africans have access to safe drinking water. the development of decentralised water supply infrastructures is an essential condition for ensuring the security of water supply in africa and for meeting the millennium development goals. improvements in storage methods are therefore needed to ensure reliable supply during droughts and to retain surplus water during floods.
in writing. − water is a scarce natural resource, and water management, especially in the context of climate change, is certainly a major challenge facing the world. if, on the one hand, the construction of dams in developing countries provides for the security of water supply and a whole range of other indisputable advantages, on the other hand, the risks inherent in their construction must be, and should be, the subject of reflection and caution. dams, both natural and artificial, can have faults or ruptures that cause floods and avalanches, which is aggravated in the case of natural dams by the effects of global warming and by black carbon deposits that are deposited on glaciers accelerating melting (bangladesh, bhutan, nepal, etc.). i think it is important to adopt a multifaceted strategy in these regions, that the construction of dams should be assessed in terms of environmental, social and economic impact, but that the developing countries have the final say in assessing their priorities and cost-benefit ratio.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing of dam infrastructure in developing countries, because i believe that a comprehensive, transparent and participatory assessment of existing alternatives to reduce the impact of floods and meet water and energy needs is needed, giving priority to ecosystem-based solutions and to enhancing the efficiency and sustainability of existing infrastructure.
in writing. − water management is a major problem in many developing countries, which are cyclically hit by droughts and floods. dams are a means of managing this scarce resource and of regulating river flows in such a way as to protect the neighbouring populations. the increasing number of floods in the second half of the 20th century must inspire caution as to the location and safety of many of the dams built and the way they are maintained, and caution is recommended in their increase, rigor in their conservation and attention to local ways of life.
in writing. this report, by nirj deva, focuses on the financing of dam infrastructure in developing countries. climate change in recent decades has brought about unexpected natural disasters in unthinkable places. floods, especially in developing countries, have caused thousands of deaths and many billions of dollars in damage. the future prospects in this area do not bode well. we all know that the average increase in global temperature has caused the melting of the ice caps and the consequent rise in sea levels. it is therefore imperative to support these countries in preventing similar situations and in promoting the integrated and sustainable development of localities in geographically more fragile areas. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which is aimed at the european union promoting technologies that drastically reduce carbon emissions, creating a cross-border monitoring agency, supporting projects to build dams that minimise flood risks and improving disaster prevention methods and flood resistance testing of buildings.
in writing. the report makes some pertinent comments on the lack of infrastructure in the least developed countries to ensure the safety and reliability of water supply in periods of drought and the retention of surplus water in periods of flooding. however, the basis, justification and objectives of this own-initiative report are not entirely clear. the report also argues that support for the construction of such infrastructure may sometimes amount to a waste of eu taxpayers' money. several of the very significant environmental and social impacts of large-scale water projects are mentioned. while some of these impacts are real, situations will naturally have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the environmental, economic and social particularities of each country and region. the defence of the virtues of small water storage structures, which are generally well-supported, cannot, however, fail to take account of these particularities. we agree with some of the proposals made in the report, such as the one on the early warning system (under the auspices of the un). considerations on environmental impact assessment, including the evaluation of alternatives, and the advocacy of preference for ecosystem-based solutions are also relevant.
in writing. − there are some pertinent considerations about the lack of infrastructure in the least developed countries, with a view to ensuring the safety and reliability of water supply in periods of drought, and the retention of water surpluses in periods of flooding. but the basis, the justification and the objectives of this own-initiative report are not entirely clear. the report also argues that in some cases support for the construction of such infrastructure may amount to a waste of eu taxpayers' money, which is in contradiction with other aspects. several significant environmental and social impacts of large-scale water projects are mentioned, some of which are true, but the situations should of course be assessed on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the environmental, economic and social particularities of each country and region. the defence of the virtues of small water storage structures, which are generally well-supported, cannot, however, fail to take account of these particularities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the construction of dams must be assessed in relation to their impact on river flows, on rights of access to water and river resources and on the possibility that a dam will uproot existing aggregates, affect the culture and livelihoods of local communities and deplete or degrade environmental resources. it is therefore very important to assess all kinds of impacts caused by the construction of new dams, especially in developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the financing of dam infrastructure in developing countries. this report was voted by a large majority and calls on the eu to continue to promote dam infrastructure to deal with the problem of flooding. the report recognises that the conditions under which flooding occurs are not static and as such require a flexible approach, calling for improved flood forecasting, verification of the flood resistance of buildings and the development of storage systems in floodplains and of water diversion systems in developing countries. i agree with the need to evaluate dam construction projects on the basis of equity, efficiency, participatory decision-making, sustainability and accountability, so as to avoid any damages from the project outweighing its gains.
in writing. − any eu reading of the use of dams as a source of electricity production must take into account the overall context in which it occurs. the first thing to be taken into account is the overall fragility of the environmental system, which has led to an exponential increase in natural disasters. in this context, famine situations, arising from the difficulty of accessing water resources, present themselves as a first-line danger to sustainable development. however, the high environmental impact of large dams and their effects on local populations should not be overlooked: it is estimated that between 40 and 80 million people have been displaced as a result. the eu's efforts should therefore be directed towards promoting the use of energy production methods which, while not sacrificing the need to obtain energy, have a lower environmental impact (think not only of the use of renewable energy but also of the option of small dams instead of large buildings). that is the spirit of this report, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − over the past few years, the european investment bank and the world bank have financed projects related to the water sector, notably the construction of dams in the least developed countries, such as laos and pakistan. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that water is a scarce resource essential for public health and that it is important to ensure that water resources are managed effectively and distributed equitably to the population. i am in favour of dams that help to improve the quality of life of the people, and that their impact on river flows and how they will affect the agricultural livelihoods of local communities should be assessed. in the future, efforts should be made to analyse the economic viability of major water projects and to take measures to optimise the distribution and use of water from existing infrastructure by multiple sectors of the economy. in this context, i believe that improving the quality of life of the people in the less developed regions should involve the definition of a comprehensive strategy for dams, the establishment of effective political dialogues and the use of warning systems capable of detecting natural causes such as floods, avalanches or tidal waves.
in writing. - i approve this report. the right to adequate food must be a reality. i call on the commission and the member states to take into account the millennium development goals in their strategic policy agendas with regard to the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition. effective measures against price volatility and uncontrolled land acquisition must be taken at european and international level in order to limit speculation and support local agricultural markets.
in writing. - according to the fao, 925 million people suffer from hunger. this number is unacceptable in this day and age. if we are to achieve the millennium development goals in this area and eradicate hunger and improve food sovereignty, we need to establish synergies and put emphasis on a truly global global strategy in the field of food security. new threats such as price speculation, climate change, land degradation, biofuels, etc. have contributed to further exacerbating this situation. i welcome this communication from the commission and would like to stress at once the urgent need to increase the availability of food products, increase their nutritional value and combat price volatility, and to review at institutional level the european strategies for sustainable development (in particular the coordination of sectoral policies), increase the share of oda allocated to agriculture and respect the commitments made in this field within international organisations. the european union must recognise and defend the need for developing countries to ensure their food security and their right to be as self-sufficient as possible by promoting sustainable agriculture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on helping developing countries to meet the challenges of food security, because poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals on fighting hunger and malnutrition should be a political priority for the eu and the member states, and measures to limit speculation in food and agricultural markets are needed.
in writing. − the food and agriculture organisation (fao) warned earlier this year of a possible increase in food prices in 2011, after they reached new all-time highs in 2010, following the rise during the 2008 food crisis. this increase in prices, which affects the whole world, particularly affects the developing countries. according to fao, the estimated number of hungry people was 925 million in 2010, and there are indications that this number may be increasing. it is a very serious situation and i believe that parliament should call for measures to mitigate it. but this is not the place to start the discussion on the future of the cap, let alone on the introduction of a financial transaction tax. as i have said on other occasions, i do not agree with this policy of systematically approving a proposal in reports which have nothing to do with the substance of the proposal itself, as is happening with the financial transaction tax.
in writing. − the first of the millennium development goals (mdgs) - to which the 189 member states of the united nations have committed themselves is to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger by 2015. to do that, they committed to halve the percentage of people who live on less than a dollar a day and to halve the percentage of the population who suffer from hunger. the achievement of this objective is being hampered by food insecurity, particularly in sub-saharan africa and developing countries. the united nations food and agriculture organization (fao) forecasts an increase in the number of hungry people in 2011, after a slight decline in 2010 due to the economic and financial crisis that has caused food prices to rise. added to this problem are climate change, biodiversity loss, soil degradation, pressures on water resources and biofuels. in view of this situation, the european union felt it necessary to review its approach to food safety. i welcome the adoption of this report, which includes principles of safeguarding the right to food in trade agreements between the eu and third countries.
in writing. - this report deals with a subject of great relevance. the rapporteur rightly points to the need for coherence - which is clearly lacking today - between the main eu policies (such as the cap and trade policy) and the objectives of this strategic framework. the emphasis on the role of small and family farming, women in rural areas, local production and consumption circuits, the necessary involvement of local and regional populations and authorities, and public investment in research into sustainable agro-ecological production systems is important. we also welcome the criticism of the current levels of official development assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector, and of the push for agrofuel cultivation. although not explicitly mentioned what would be important , the report does contain some basic principles associated with the concept of food sovereignty. as regards price volatility as a result of speculation in foodstuffs, the report could and should have gone further, notwithstanding some pertinent remarks, by stating that the only way to prevent such speculation is to put an end to the instruments which enable it, such as otc derivatives. finally, criticism of the epas is unfortunately lacking.
in writing. − in this report, which deals with a highly relevant subject, the rapporteur refers to the need for coherence between the main eu policies (such as the cap and trade policy) and the objectives of this strategic framework, highlighting the role of small and family farming, women in rural areas, local production and consumption circuits, the necessary involvement of local and regional populations and authorities, and also public investment in research into sustainable agro-ecological production systems. the current levels of official development assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector, and the push for agrofuel cultivation are also criticised. although not explicitly mentioned, the report does contain some basic principles associated with the concept of food sovereignty. as regards price volatility as a result of speculation in foodstuffs, the report could and should have gone further, notwithstanding some pertinent remarks, and in particular pointed out that the only way to prevent such speculation is to put an end to the instruments which make it possible, such as otc derivatives. the committee on budgets has also been criticised for its lack of a clear policy on the environment.
in writing. - i think it is time for the european institutions and the member states to put the eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition at the top of their agendas, defining it as a medium or long-term objective in their political strategies, despite strong commitments to the effective implementation of human rights in food, water, energy, etc. consequently, in order to achieve the mdgs by 2015, it is crucial to review and amend, if necessary, all eu policies, including europe 2020, global europe, energy policy, the sustainable development strategy and the future of eu development cooperation.
in writing. - my approval of this report was dictated by the dramatic situation in sub-saharan africa and the least developed countries in terms of food and the need for urgent intervention at this level. i have some reservations about more specific paragraphs in the report, particularly those relating to export subsidies, cap reform and the competitiveness of agriculture in developing countries. as regards a reduction in export subsidies, i believe that the eu should be more cautious, because although this is an important imperative, this type of measure must be in line with the principle of reciprocity by the other trading blocs in the context of the wto negotiations. i cannot fully agree with the rapporteur when she calls for a more thorough reform of the cap to enable developing countries to be more competitive. this statement deserves careful consideration and, above all, precise contextualisation, since there are several factors contributing to the distortion of trade, in addition to the cap. finally, as regards the competitiveness of developing countries, there are multiple variables at play and the lack of competitiveness cannot be attributed solely to subsidised agriculture in developed countries.
in writing. − the concept of food sovereignty instills the need to ensure that people have sufficient resources to cope with famine situations. this is one of the greatest challenges for economic development today. the recent price increases in food markets bear this out: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of information on the activities of the european parliament and the commission. the timeliness of eu action to contribute to the food sovereignty of developing countries, with reference to the populations, is undeniable. in agreeing with this approach, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - more than 1 billion people in the world live under the burden of hunger, malnutrition and lack of a food security policy. this is due to a number of reasons, including the volatility and the steady increase in food prices since 2007. the report, which demonstrates the role of the eu and the member states in finding solutions to food security, aims to create a common programme of the european institutions and the member states to achieve the first millennium development goal. following the eu strategic framework on food and nutrition security presented by the commission in march 2010, the role of small-scale food production, which forms the basis of developing economies, should be emphasised. clear and specific support policies and programmes need to be adopted, which understand the diverse realities of developing countries. learning by doing is essential for the training of farmers and for the self-sufficiency of countries. in addition, a clear focus on research and innovation is needed to increase agricultural productivity. these concerns should be reflected in the agreements with developing countries, and in particular in the economic partnership agreements concluded with the acp countries.
in writing. the report deals with the unilateral declarations annexed to the council's minutes. i share the rapporteur's view that this matter deserves a political response rather than a change of rules. unilateral declarations have no legal value and sometimes do not even correspond to the results of the negotiations, and can thus undermine the coherence of legislative work. the ep should send a clear message to prevent such statements from coming up during second reading negotiations.
in writing. - notwithstanding the interest which they may have, unilateral statements entered in the minutes of council meetings do not have the capacity to interpret community law and are not binding on the other european institutions. as a co-legislator, parliament should be informed of the issuing of such declarations.
in writing. − the conference of committee chairs asked the committee on constitutional affairs to clarify the european parliament's position on the meaning and legal status of unilateral statements recorded in the minutes of council meetings which, in the context of the co-decision procedure, could compromise the legal force and will of parliament as co-legislator. the report we have just voted on, drawn up by mr trzaskowski, draws attention to certain inconsistencies in the council's rules of procedure, even in their most recent version, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in particular by subordinating the ep to the governments of the member states and to the national parliaments, which enjoy privileged access. in this respect, i agree with this report, that unilateral declarations should be avoided, that the european parliament should be duly informed by the council at all stages of the legislative process and that publication in the official journal of the european union should be avoided.
in writing. − the necessary legal clarity of eu legislation cannot be a pretext for imposing on member states legislation which is considered to be harmful to vital interests of those member states. this is all the more important as a path of submission of the sovereignty of each country and each people to the guidance of the eu's directorate and the interests that control it and that it serves is consolidated. eu legislation and guidelines are increasingly centralising and anti-democratic, and tend to deprive the political structures close to and under the control of the citizens of power and competence. moreover, these guidelines and legislation are increasingly serving the financial sector and the large economic groups and against the interests of the overwhelming majority of the population. for workers and the portuguese people, for example, what is clear is that eu guidelines and legislation are increasingly being used as a justification for the withdrawal of rights and social gains. we are facing a brutal social setback at the same time as the great fortunes are increasing. and when they're not satisfied, they want more. only the organized struggle of the people can stop them.
in writing. - while it is true that legal clarity is necessary in eu legislation, it is also true that such clarity cannot result from the limitation of the national sovereignty of a member state which considers that certain legislation may be prejudicial to its interests. this question is all the more important as a path of submission of the sovereignty of each country and each people over its present and its future and the realization of its aspirations and aspirations to the interests of the financial oligarchy of the great powers of the eu is consolidated. the eu's laws and guidelines, and their increasingly centralising and anti-democratic character, are clear to the big multinationals and the financial sector, who clearly benefit from them. for the working and popular classes, particularly in countries like portugal, what is clear is that their rights and social gains are being brutally reduced, while the great fortunes are increasing. and when they're not satisfied, they want more. only the organized struggle of the people can stop them.
in writing. − unilateral statements entered in the minutes of council meetings have no legal value and may undermine the coherence of union law and its clear interpretation. unilateral declarations should therefore not diminish or compromise the need for all states to systematically observe the discipline of publication of correspondence tables, defining the ways and means by which eu law should be transposed into national law, in the interest of the efficient and transparent application of the law throughout the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is based on a request from the conference of committee chairmen to the committee on constitutional affairs to clarify parliament's position on the meaning and legal status of unilateral statements recorded in the minutes of council meetings. several committee chairmen expressed concern at the proliferation of such declarations, particularly in the context of the codecision procedure, where they could compromise the legal force and scope of the acts adopted. it is concluded that unilateral statements by member states on legal acts should not be published in the official journal of the european union and that recourse to them should be avoided as far as possible. the council must keep parliament fully informed at all stages of the legislative process.
in writing. the legal value of unilateral statements entered in the minutes of council meetings must be determined by the framework given to the sources of community law. in this context, the primacy, from the interpretative point of view, must be that of the meaning to be attributed to the legislative text: the value of unilateral statements is purely a function of the elder, and cannot indicate the decisive meaning of the interpreted provision, nor allow the member states to change unilaterally the meaning of a common provision. i voted in favour of this because i agree with this view.
in writing. - i support this report because i generally support the views expressed, since they cover all the main aspects of external trade policy in goods and services, defence instruments, investment and intellectual property rights, and they present the idea of using trade as a tool for humanitarian assistance and development.
in writing. - external trade is a key element for the european economy. in 2000, the european union accounted for 25% of world gdp and it is estimated that by 2020 this figure will decrease to 18% of world gdp. the centre of gravity of the world economy is shifting to developing countries. some 36 million jobs in the european union - equivalent to 18% of jobs - are linked to external trade. by 2015, it is estimated that 90% of economic growth will be generated outside the european union, increasing dependence on external trade. this report advocates exports as an anchor for economic growth and job creation, arguing that the commission should make strengthening external trade a priority. it called on the commission to present as soon as possible a genuinely long-term strategy for external trade. in view of the foregoing, i support this report.
in writing. - a trade policy for europe will have to take account of the profound changes the world has undergone in recent years and to focus on the concrete benefits of the free market, without neglecting the political implications of its trade action, nor the dignity of the people involved in the production of goods and services and in trade on a world scale. it is essential that, in the present crisis, we have the courage to set ambitious goals and the political will to create the instruments necessary to achieve them. the commission is called upon to make this effort and to create the conditions for a competitive but supportive, ambitious but realistic trade policy.
in writing. - mr daniel caspary, author of this report on the need for a new trade policy for europe under the europe 2020 strategy, welcomes the communication from the committee on trade, growth and international affairs and the recognition that the eu's prosperity and growth depend on an optimised functioning of the international trade system. thanks to the world trade organization, there has been a great expansion of world trade in recent years. the european union, which accounted for 25% of global value added in 2000, is forecast to fall to 18% by 2020. in contrast, the emerging economies of china and india, which accounted for only 10% in 2000, will account for around 25% by 2020. these data force the eu to rethink its trade policy. the commission must analyse the causes of this situation very carefully and adopt measures to meet global challenges, in line with other european policies and in response to population growth. although it is a pessimistic but realistic document, i am voting in favour of this report and hope that the measures advocated to mitigate the consequences of the slowdown in european exports will be taken into account.
in writing. - this report brings together many of the proclamations and commonplaces of the free trade pact. to this extent, it is natural and understandable that it associates the said trade policy for europe with the eu 2020 strategy. the result, in short, is a sham apology for neoliberalism, which even the deep crisis in which we are plunged does not seem to have softened. what we have here is the tedious repetition of claims which not only lack support, but are flatly refuted by reality. the opening up of trade goes hand in hand with employment and job creation. but because fiction cannot stand up to reality, it is recognized that what citizens see is precisely the opposite. the commission is therefore calling for a better communication strategy on the union's trade policy and the advantages and disadvantages of international trade. the truth is that no communication strategy can hide the reality of the effects of free trade. what is needed is a change of policy! trade policy too. it is based on regulation and complementarity, on fair and equitable trade relations, and is at the service of development and people, not multinationals and large economic and financial groups.
in writing. - it is a report that brings together many of the proclamations and commonplaces of the free trade booklet. to this extent, it is natural and understandable that it associates the said trade policy for europe with the eu 2020 strategy. the result, in short, is a sham apology for neoliberalism, which even the deep crisis in which we are plunged does not seem to have softened. what we have here is the tedious repetition of claims which not only lack support, but are flatly refuted by reality. but because fiction cannot stand up to reality, it is recognized that what citizens see is precisely the opposite. the commission is therefore calling for a better communication strategy on the union's trade policy and the advantages and disadvantages of international trade. the truth is that no communication strategy can hide the reality of the effects of free trade. what is needed is a change in policies, including trade policy, based on regulation and complementarity, on fair and equitable trade relations, in the service of development and people, and not of multinationals and the big economic and financial groups.
in writing. - the profound changes europe has been undergoing in recent years require a new approach to the issue of trade policy. we need to create a new trade policy for europe, one that is concerned with taking advantage of our internal market and a free market, while at the same time not forgetting the people involved in the production of goods and services and in trade all over the world.
in writing. - i voted against two points in this important report on the union's external trade policy, with which i agree. the first point of disagreement concerns the use of exceptional trade preferences granted to third countries as a means of emergency aid in disaster situations. it happens that the eu has specific instruments for emergency aid and that trade preferences are clearly unsuitable for this purpose, because they take time to take effect, because they can hardly be focused to benefit those who need help most in these circumstances. secondly, while financial aid is charged to the eu budget, trade preferences will only affect countries that are harmed by imports facilitated by tariff exemptions or reductions, which are usually the least wealthy countries in the eu, as shown in the case of pakistan. i also voted against the reservations expressed in the report concerning the use of trade defence instruments (anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures), which are essential means of fair trade action against unfair commercial practices by certain countries (china first) which thus seriously harm european companies on the european market itself.
in writing. − on 9 november 2010, the european commission presented its communication entitled 'trade, growth and international issues on the future trade strategy of the european union'. this communication aims to present the external aspects of the eu 2020 strategy and is primarily a continuation of the 2006 global europe strategy. i share the rapporteur's concern that this commission document offers good impetus for the coming months but does not represent a real strategy for the future. the report concludes that the commission should be urged to carry out an analysis and forecast which takes account of the current world economic situation and the current situation in the european union, as well as the likely future developments, and to draw up a long-term strategy which meets the needs of the european union and its citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − european trade policy must be geared to producing long-term results, in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the balance of power in economic relations has, in fact, changed very substantially in recent years, as the rapporteur warns. on the one hand, the large emerging economies have assumed, in absolute terms, a prominent place in international trade; on the other hand, they are the major driver of world economic growth (estimated to generate 90% of world economic growth in 2015). i voted in favour of the report because i share the concern to devise a strategy to meet the challenges facing the eu.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, despite a long and solid friendship, i cannot agree with the reasoning of my dear friend robert goebbels. i apologize for that. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr juncker, i agree with you when you say that greek workers were not responsible for the bankruptcy of lehman brothers. but at least the americans today have a plan for employment, and what the europeans have are just plans for austerity. and i also tell you that it is greek workers, like the portuguese and irish, who are being thrown into unemployment by european and imf plans and programmes whose main and only objective is to save the banks, and are being penalized every day by the indecision, the non-decision or the wrong decisions of the european leaders themselves. and that is why i ask you whether it is not time for the president of the eurogroup to explain to the german taxpayers that they are not just paying for speculation on the financial markets. they are also paying for every statement made by mrs merkel, or one of her ministers or one of her secretaries of state, and that it is all of us who pay for the cacophony of european leadership.
the absence of a peace process is putting basic rights in question and has led to unilateral measures being taken by both sides which have not contributed in any way to a reduction in tensions in the region, much less to the effective search for a life for the two peoples who have the right to live in harmony in peace, security and dignity. it is time for the international community to say enough! it is time for europe and the arab league to push forward the search for a lasting solution, with wisdom, by presenting workable solutions without delay and within deadlines. clearly, the united states and russia are no longer part of the solution. let 's start with jerusalem: why not restart the initial idea of a corpus separatum administered by the un and which would obviously function as the capital of the two states? borders: let's start with the '67s. exchange plots of land as consistently as possible. he is concerned with the defence of israel, which is obviously a matter of great concern to the jewish people. for example, by placing blue helmets with american, european and islamic forces along the jordan. refugees: there are about 4.8 million of them and they have the right to their dignity. a future tied to a land, preferably your own. but they are not exclusively an israeli or palestinian problem, they are also ours, those of our arab neighbours, of the arab community in general, but also of europe and the rest of the international community. settlers, you must finish your expansion. and this is non-negotiable. the announcement made today is shameful and reflects hypocrisy and bad faith in an announcement of readiness for immediate negotiations.
the question that the palestinians are asking, not only to the member countries of the security council, not only to the nations that are in the un, but to each and every one of us, is very simple: the european union is not the only one to have a policy of peace and stability in the middle east. - yes or no? without questioning the existence of the state of israel alongside palestine, yes or no? a delayed response, an evasive response, is an unworthy response. the palestinians have a right to be answered, including by the european union, yes or no. and instead of accepting this kind of permanent postponement while israel moves forward with the settlements, what we should have done is to speak to israeli society, to the 400,000 israeli middle class who took to the streets and to say to them: accept the state of palestine now, accept peace now and the european union will take up its responsibilities to give everyone security, to give everyone dignity and to give everyone access to the markets of the european union, to give everyone access to prosperity. because israeli civil society knows very well that the path netanyahu is leading them is a dead end and without friends. we cannot continue forever to stand on the doorstep of historic occasions. mrs. ashton, a simple answer: yes or no? - i know.
mr president, i would naturally like to congratulate you on this supplementary hope which you have given to all the members of the european parliament and in particular to the citizens of the european union whom we represent here. and that said, i would like to say that we now expect the commission to take very, very determined action in the council so that this sovereign debt crisis can be resolved in the short term. we know it's a marathon, but we need immediate signals. and so, without prejudice to the fact that we are all beginning to think about an amendment to the treaties which will give political meaning to the whole of the project we have brought here today, without prejudice to that, something must be done now. this package of measures and perhaps an agreement, an agreement between the states, what we have called a kind of para-social agreement that goes beyond the treaties and that can, from now on, put all these ideas into practice. congratulations on your courage and determination. i believe we are on the right track and we leave here today with a new determination.
mr president, mr barroso, quite frankly, a year ago here he announced the creation of eurobonds. it happened again today, and i suspect it will happen again in a year. it may even go so far as to introduce itself to all of us by saying: my name is bond, eurobond. mr president, we all want eurobonds, but the truth, and the problem, is that the agent of service we have today, the one with the secret plans, the one with the order to kill, is mrs merkel. we just learned about the eureka plan today. if you have any information on this plan, mr president, i would very much like to hear it from you, because we too would like to know about these secret plans to save europe from the crisis. but on a different subject, mr president, i want to ask you if you have spoken about palestine. we already know that the european union has no common position on palestine. what i do not understand, and would like to understand, is how europe wants to have a say in the peace process negotiations when the proposed budget support for the palestinian authority for 2012 is half of what was implemented in 2010 and a cut of one third compared to 2011. i ask you to comment on that. and finally, mr president, do not offer internships to the young people who are demonstrating in the streets. offer them employment policies. they appreciate it, and so do we.
mr. president, last year i told you i hadn't woken up for the crisis. now the crisis is there, it's made itself felt very clearly and, in fact, it's awakened the entire agent. my fear is that it's too little, too late. europe needs three things. one, that its single currency issues debt in its name, like any currency in the real world. you can't go on with 17 different debts. secondly, it requires that this debt be used for an economic recovery plan, for employment, for public investment, for infrastructure construction. that's settled. you need a third thing. you need political legitimacy to use that debt and to make that economic recovery plan. and that is something that the president of the commission can ensure by taking steps to ensure that the next president of the commission is the one, or the one, who will be elected by the 500 million citizens in the 2014 elections. so that when good ideas are finally on the table, they cannot be killed off by the leaders of paris or berlin at a summit on the edge of a casino, and the voices of 500 million people can be heard to have a european union with real solidarity. not the kind of solidarity we have now, which every time i hear about it - i confess - scares me a little more.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr barroso on his strong speech, on the message of determination he brought us here, and for that he was deservedly applauded. you spoke of a people's europe. the citizens ask: how did we get to this crisis, to all these sacrifices, when europe has 7% of the world's population and 22% of its gdp? but the big question is this: how do we get out of here? and mr. president, you know that the people are tired of talk, they want action. and one of the actions that should have been taken already was to end offshore. president sarkozy, during the french presidency, spoke of ending offshore, but so far nothing has been done. on the other hand, fiscal harmonization is also necessary, because without fiscal harmonization there is no single currency that can stand. and i think it is important that this is emphasized and also that austerity and responsibility should rhyme with solidarity.
mr president, this was the third debate i have taken part in this week. i have been here from the beginning. and i'd like to understand the reason for this refusal of the word in catch-the-eye. is it because they knew that i would take a different position, that i would speak about the protests in portugal, about the portuguese workers, about the demonstrations next saturday in porto and lisbon? and i would like to have an answer to this question, and here is, in fact, the protest of the portuguese population against these policies.
in writing. the crisis we are witnessing today requires swift and courageous responses. as the situation in greece demonstrates, an alternative agenda to extreme austerity and protection of the weakest and the unemployed who have nothing to do with the origin of this crisis is needed. to do this, europe, in addition to the necessary fiscal consolidation, must ensure its investment capacity to grow, create services and maintain essential public services. the economic governance package should include a growth pact to encourage states to implement productive investments capable of reversing the current economic situation. europe also lacks a medium- and long-term vision, and is exhausting itself in an austere reaction to the present situation. the budgetary objectives should exist alongside the objectives of agenda 2020. the decision-making processes must be more democratic and stronger, without nationalism, so that europe can respond more quickly and effectively. on the other hand, europe needs a eurobond system to help stabilise markets, a financial transaction tax to generate new revenue and limit forms of speculation, a stronger european budget with its own revenue and an end to tax havens.
in writing. the speech by the president of the commission in the european parliament today was another number for the markets to see. at the same time, it was an attempt to silence the criticisms that had accused the commission and its president of inaction and systematic submission to mrs merkel's german leadership. in the end, the applause that united the right and the social democrats is illustrative and symbolic of a 'union' that has led the eu and its member states to the current crisis and which is still in place, as was shown by the adoption of the economic governance package, welcomed by barroso. a package which means a strengthening of the jcp and the restrictions inherent in it, which affect above all the weaker economies and which are largely responsible for the poor economic growth in portugal over the last decade. as for the rest, the strengthening of the efsf is nothing more than the transfer of (more) public debt held by the banks to the public sector, that is, at the expense of the workers and the people. the financial transaction tax was announced by the n-th. there are doubts about its practical effects. for the time being, the most speculative financial products, such as derivatives (with ridiculous rates), are spared, while tax havens remain untouched. so little practical results in combating speculation.
in writing. faced with the most serious crisis in recent decades, to which the eu's neoliberal policies have contributed, the commission insists on deepening capitalist and neoliberal integration, splashed with a few demagogic strokes that have not touched the essence of the powerful financial sector. it is not enough to say that a tax on financial transactions is being introduced at a ridiculous rate if tax havens continue to flourish and derivatives markets continue to fuel speculation in the sovereign debts of the countries with the weakest economies. even the increase in the rate of cofinancing for the countries with the so-called financial assistance programmes, which we have been calling for for years, is a delay and, unfortunately, does not even mean a strengthening of the community budget. by insisting on the same neoliberal policies and the so-called austerity policies, on the strengthening of the eec and the centralisation of economic and political power, we will only have to deal with the deepening of economic asymmetries and social inequalities, unemployment and poverty, with no prospects for the future for the 23% of young people who are unemployed or for the more than 100 million people at risk of poverty. we therefore support the struggles of the workers and the populations for the break and the change that is needed, as we will see next saturday in portugal with the cgtp demonstrations.
in writing. the president of the european commission said today that the european union is at a crucial turning point. the road to economic recovery remains long and difficult and the effects of the crisis have been repeatedly and seriously felt by our citizens. i agree with his statements on the need for all pro-european forces to join forces in defence of the european project and to act to meet the challenges by deepening european integration. the role of the european parliament and its cooperation with the commission are particularly important here. it is essential to strengthen the eu, in particular by supporting the commission's proposals in its institutions, in order to defend the common european interest and support european integration. i congratulate president barroso on his determination and courage and look to his college of commissioners to come forward with concrete proposals with real impact by 2020. the multiannual financial framework will play a key role here, focusing on areas where the eu can make a difference. it is essential that we join forces and build a union of stability and responsibility, an eu of growth and solidarity, and with an active and effective voice on the world stage.
in writing. - i approve of this report, drawing attention to the need for consistency and coherence in the appropriations allocated to the union's instruments as an indispensable condition for effective and optimum use, very desirable attributes in a budgetary environment of tension and constraint.
in writing. − this €43.9 million increase in the management of migration and refugee flows is intended to equip existing agencies and support instruments in this area with the necessary resources to be able to support the eu's multi-faceted response to the recent events in the southern mediterranean. the high migratory pressure in that region has led to the need to strengthen union actions under the external borders fund, the return fund and the refugee fund. support for the efforts of the member states most directly involved should be strengthened in order to relieve them of the considerable burden they bear, reflecting the fundamental principle of solidarity. the capacity of the frontex agency should also be improved, in particular to be able to carry out maritime surveillance activities in the mediterranean. i support this report which helps to clarify the contradictory positions of the council, which, on the one hand, in its reading of the draft eu budget for 2012, proposed a cut in the funds allocated to the management of migration and refugee flows and, on the other hand, approved the strengthening of several actions and programmes to be carried out by frontex, as well as other instruments and mechanisms in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the need to strengthen the european union's support for the management of migration and refugee flows. the natural increase in migration flows requires a multi-faceted eu response. in view of the political developments in the southern mediterranean countries, it is essential to increase the budgetary allocation of the frontex agency, the external borders fund, the european return fund and the european refugee fund.
in writing. - this amending budget proposal aims to respond to the flows of migrants and refugees following recent developments in north africa and is financed through reallocation and/or additional funds. in view of the exceptional situation facing the southern european states, i support this proposal.
in writing. − the budget of the european union for 2011 was finally adopted on 15 december 2010. throughout the first half of 2011, the eu witnessed political changes (arab spring) in several countries in the southern mediterranean where some peoples, with eu support, overthrew decades-old totalitarian regimes. these events have led to significant migratory flows towards other countries, particularly from southern europe. as no such exceptional expenditure had been foreseen, the commission presented draft amending budget no 4 on 17 june 2011, in accordance with article 314 tfeu, which was adopted by the council on 12 september 2011. the project provides for a €41.1 million increase (commitment and payment appropriations) for the following funds: external borders, european return and european refugee funds, to finance transnational actions in emergency situations, plus a €54 million increase for the frontex agency (maritime surveillance). because the eu must honour its commitments, especially when human rights are at stake, i welcome the adoption of this draft amending budget.
in writing. - the amending budget voted today represents a budgetary increase for the heading corresponding to the management of migration and refugee flows, reinforcing and/or extending maritime surveillance operations in the mediterranean, which are said to be necessary to cover the additional needs arising from the exceptional and unforeseen increase in migratory flows from north africa. a substantial part of the amount now mobilised is directed towards operational expenditure for frontex eur 30 million in commitments , the agency responsible for implementing the european union's repressive, security-based policy on immigration. a policy that hides the real causes of immigration. the report does not mention, but it should, that the exceptional and unforeseen increase in migratory flows from north africa is inseparable from the military aggressions of nato and several eu countries in the region, sowing war, destruction and chaos. at a time of deepening economic and social crisis in the eu, it is significant and symbolic that this increase in support for fortress europe comes from unused funds from the european economic recovery plan.
in writing. - the amending budget voted today represents an increase in the budget for the heading corresponding to the management of migration and refugee flows, by reinforcing and/or extending maritime surveillance operations in the mediterranean, which are said to be necessary to cover the additional needs arising from the exceptional and unforeseen increase in migratory flows from north africa. a substantial part of the amount now mobilised is directed towards operational expenditure for frontex €30 million in commitments , the agency responsible for implementing the european union's repressive, security-oriented policy on immigration, bypassing the real causes of immigration. the report does not, therefore, mention, but it should, that the exceptional and unforeseen increase in migratory flows from north africa is inseparable from the military aggressions of nato and various eu countries in the region, sowing war, destruction and chaos. at a time of deepening economic and social crisis in the eu, it is significant and symbolic that this increase in support for fortress europe comes from unused funds from the european economic recovery plan.
in writing. - this amending budget aims to find funds to respond to the flows of migrants and refugees following recent developments in north africa. this exceptional situation can/should be financed through reallocation and/or additional funds.
in writing. − i have approved this report on an amendment to the union budget with a view to increasing the commitment appropriations entered in subheading 3a of the 2011 budget to manage migratory and refugee flows following recent developments in north africa and to a revision of the estimate of traditional own resources, the vat and gni bases and the uk corrections for the financial years 2006, 2007 and 2010. these amendments were voted on by a large majority in the committee on budgets.
in writing. - the draft amending budget seeks to increase the appropriations for commitments for managing the flows of migrants and refugees from north africa (a subject which has been given new importance in the light of recent political developments) and to revise a number of headings relating to the member states' contributions to the common budget. in view of the timeliness of the proposed amendments, while at the same time emphasizing the need to adopt a clear and predictable political line, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported the present report concerning the mobilisation of eur 3 944 606 from the egf for denmark to support workers made redundant by six companies in division 28 manufacturing of machinery and equipment in the midtjylland region.
in writing. - in recent years, many european industries have experienced difficulties due to globalisation, aggravated by the economic and financial crisis that threatens many countries in the world. in the present case, six danish machinery and equipment manufacturing companies in the midtjylland region laid off 813 workers eligible for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i regret that these workers are also suffering from the impact of the recent paradigm shift in international trade and the present crisis, and i hope that the european economy can find a new path to prosperity.
in writing. − the european union, recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. this report concerns a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 3 944 606 from the egf to support the reintegration of danish workers made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. this application, the 14th to be examined under the eu budget 2011, was submitted by denmark on 11 may 2010 and concerns 813 redundancies in 6 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in the region of midtjylland (dk04) in denmark. as this is a specific budgetary instrument and the amount requested has a legal framework and is in line with the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for denmark, i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that it will help to alleviate the economic difficulties of the people in that region and to revive the local economy.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to denmark, which has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 813 redundancies (325 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in six enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment) in the nuts ii region of midtjylland (dk04).
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 11 july 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 14th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 944 606 from the egf in favour of 813 redundancies (325 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 6 enterprises in the nuts ii region of midtjylland, denmark, during the nine-month reference period from 6 june 2009 to 1 march 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the application submitted by denmark for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) concerns 813 redundancies (325 of which are potential recipients of assistance) in six enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 28 manufacture of machinery and equipment in the nuts ii midtjylland region. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the report because it is sensitive to the 813 redundancies in six companies in the machinery and equipment industry in the danish region of midtjylland. this was due to the rapid expansion of the wind energy sector and the fact that wind turbine production is carried out on a global scale and not only in the european union. the amount of eur 3 944 606 is intended to finance vocational assistance measures for individual workers and is not used to restructure the company or to replace measures which are the sole responsibility of the company under national law or collective agreements. finally, i believe that all procedures should be speeded up so that workers who have been made redundant can have quick access to vocational training to enable them to re-enter the labour market quickly and effectively.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 4 347 868 from the egf for germany to support workers made redundant in two companies in division 29 - manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers - in arnsberg and dusseldorf.
in writing. − fifteenth application to be assessed under the 2011 budget concerns the mobilisation of eur 4 347 868 from the european globalisation adjustment fund to assist 778 unemployed in the manufacturing sector of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf. another example of the structural changes in world trade patterns that have occurred in recent years.
in writing. - this report by barbara matera on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/003 de arnsberg and düsseldorf automotive, germany). in july 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in germany to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 9 february 2010. this is the 15th application under the eu budget for 2011, with a total of eur 4 347 868, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 778 workers from 5 companies manufacturing cars, trailers and semi-trailers in the nuts 2 regions of arnsberg (dea5) and düsseldorf (dea1) in germany, already badly affected by the nokia (bochum) layoffs and the closure of general motors. i welcome the approval of this aid and i hope that the german motor industry will recover quickly.
in writing. - another plenary session, another request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the request was made by germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of 778 workers made redundant in five companies in division 29 in germany during the reference period of nine months from 1 march 2010 to 1 december 2010. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 4 347 868. this request reminds us that in no country are workers immune to the effects of the capitalist crisis. we have given our support to this call for action, so that the workers who have been made redundant will not be deprived of the support they deserve. but once again we criticise the fact that this instrument has had to be used. in this case, we cannot fail to mention another aspect. the amount approved is disproportionately higher than that mobilised for portugal, because of the dismissal of many hundreds of workers at rohde. this confirms the correctness of the criticisms we have always made of the fund's deeply unfair criteria and its rules, which are prejudicial in relative terms to the most vulnerable countries and those facing the greatest difficulties today.
in writing. − the application, case feg/2011/003 de/arnsberg and düsseldorf automotive, germany, was submitted to the commission on 9 february 2011 and supplemented by additional information by 28 april 2011. when we considered this proposal in the working party of the committee on employment and social affairs, of which i am a member, i stressed the injustice of this mobilisation for germany, involving eur 4.3 million, when compared with the mobilisation for portugal of eur 1.4 million for a similar situation of the workers made redundant at rohde. so, while voting in favour of both cases in order not to harm the workers involved, we once again call attention to the profoundly unfair criteria of this egf.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to germany, which has submitted a request for assistance concerning 778 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in five enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the nuts ii region of arnsberg (dea5) and düsseldorf (dea1).
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 20 july 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 15th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 4 347 868 from the egf to support 778 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 5 enterprises in the nuts ii regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf in germany, in the reference period of 9 months from 1 march 2010 to 1 december 2010. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the application submitted by germany for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) concerns 778 redundancies in five enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers in the nuts ii regions of arnsberg and düsseldorf. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division at nace level 2, in one or two regions adjacent to nuts ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i am voting in favour of this report on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of germany, which allows the granting of a financial envelope of eur 4 347 868 to deal with the difficulties of reintegration into the labour market of 778 people made redundant in two companies in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, located in the regions of arnsberg and dusseldorf. it should be noted that the amount in question is intended to help finance personalised services in the field of vocational training and not to replace the legal responsibilities assumed by the undertakings concerned. i would also like to stress that the institutions involved must make every effort to make the procedural and budgetary arrangements more effective so that the egf can be mobilised more quickly.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 449 500 from the egf for portugal to support workers made redundant by the rohde company in santa maria da feira.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's approval of the mobilisation of eur 1.4 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for portugal to support 680 workers made redundant at the rohde shoe factory in santa maria da feira. this is the fourth time portugal has used this fund, which was set up to help reintegrate people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market. following 974 redundancies at rohde sociedade industrial de calçado luso-alemã, lda. , portugal applied for the egf on 26 november last year. of the 974 workers laid off, 680 are potential recipients of assistance. the assistance package will include recognition of skills, vocational training, grants for self-initiated training, training and assistance for business creation, support for self-employment and recruitment incentives. the total estimated cost of this package is eur 2.23 million, of which eur 1.4 million has been requested from the egf (65% of the total costs).
in writing. − with the extension of this fund to applications from 2009 requiring assistance for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis, the application submitted by portugal for redundancies at rohde became eligible. the application to mobilise the egf was lodged on 26 november 2010 following the dismissal of 974 workers by rohde, a company established in santa maria da feira. financial assistance should be dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible, with the primary objective of supporting the individual reintegration of dismissed workers into working life. and the measures taken must lead, in the long term, to the creation of more jobs. i welcome the fact that the budget for 2011 has been reinforced with the necessary appropriations to cover this application, some eur 1 449 500. i regret that it has taken so long for these workers to receive the necessary assistance and i hope that a review of the egf can be carried out in order to introduce the necessary improvements which will allow for greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation of the egf will be an important support for the 974 workers made redundant in the municipalities of santa maria da feira and ovar. in addition to providing one-off, temporary, personalised support, this amount to be transferred should contribute to programmes promoting the reintegration of these workers into working life, more specifically, to the recognition of skills, vocational training and training and assistance for the creation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - rohde has become one of the largest shoe factories in portugal and an important source of employment for the people of the municipalities of santa maria da feira and ovar. its closure, as a result of external competition and the decline in orders from the parent company in germany, had serious social consequences, including long-term unemployment, which are still felt in the municipalities. as a portuguese, i cannot but support the motion for a decision and hope that the european globalisation adjustment fund will be mobilised as soon as possible so that we can help workers who are eligible for this support. i hope that they will be able to integrate into the labour market and get through this difficult period.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/026 pt/rohde, portugal). on 17 august 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of portugal to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the 16th application under the eu budget 2011, submitted to the commission on 26 november 2010, for the mobilisation of eur 1 449 500, and is intended to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 974 workers from a footwear company located in santa maria da feira, but also affecting the municipality of ovar, nuts ii: northern and central portugal. i welcome the adoption of this proposal and hope that it will mitigate the social effects of the dismissals at rohde and help to integrate these workers into the labour market.
in writing. - another request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. once again, it is portugal. this request is intended to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at rohde a total of 974 redundancies, with 680 potential beneficiaries of assistance. the total amount is eur 1 449 500. the story of this dismissal is, unfortunately, similar to so many others. the report mentions that the company was jointly acquired by square four and the merchant bank morgan stanley in an attempt to save rohde and its production share. according to the plan, the plant in portugal was to continue production. only, as in so many similar stories, meanwhile, the layoffs began. this was coupled with a decrease in orders from the german parent company, which affected the situation of rohde's factory in santa maria da feira, leading to the opening of bankruptcy proceedings in september 2009 which eventually led to the closure of the factory and the dismissal of the workers. once again, here is the denunciation of the unfair criteria of this fund and its regulation. for a similar number of workers, germany applies for and obtains the mobilisation of an amount about three times higher than that mobilised for portugal.
in writing. − the decision to mobilise the egf in portugal is intended to support the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market, for a total amount of eur 1 449 500, involving 974 redundancies, with 680 potential beneficiaries of assistance. the application was submitted by the portuguese government to the european commission at the end of 2010. the document states that the company was acquired in an attempt to save rohde and that the plant in portugal should continue to be in production. however, redundancies began, coupled with a decrease in orders from the german parent company, which affected the situation of the rohde plant in santa maria da feira, leading to the opening of bankruptcy proceedings in september 2009 which eventually led to the closure of the plant and the dismissal of the workers. when we considered this proposal in the working party of the committee on employment, of which i am a member, i stressed the injustice of this mobilisation for portugal involving only eur 1.4 million, whereas the mobilisation for a similar situation in denmark involved eur 3.9 million and for germany some eur 4.4 million. although we all voted in favour of it in order not to harm the workers involved, we have once again pointed out the profoundly unfair criteria of this egf.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of €1.4 million to support workers made redundant by the footwear company rohde in santa maria da feira, a region with an unemployment rate above the national average. 974 workers, 87% of whom were women, were subject to collective redundancies following bankruptcy proceedings that were at least dubious. i voted in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund does not prevent redundancies or bankruptcies, but it does allow for increased support for victims of collective redundancies. the approval of this support is an important counter-cyclical signal to the policies of eliminating social rights and facilitating dismissals. i regret, however, the slowness of the whole process. the support will eventually be unlocked 17 months after the first layoffs. i would also like to see more action in the area of education and training, as 78.5% of the workforce are low-skilled (not completed compulsory schooling).
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to portugal, which requested assistance in relation to a case concerning 974 redundancies, 680 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in an enterprise located mainly in the municipality of santa maria da feira, and which also affected the neighbouring municipality of ovar, both located respectively in two nuts ii regions: northern and central portugal.
in writing. − portugal submitted an application for the egf on 26 november last year following 974 redundancies at rohde sociedade industrial de calçado luso-alemã, lda., a footwear manufacturing company. of the 974 workers made redundant, 680 are potential beneficiaries of assistance (the portuguese authorities estimate that around 70% of the workers made redundant will participate in measures co-financed by the egf, while the rest will find another job, move abroad, retire or participate in other actions complementary to those co-financed by the egf). the assistance package will include recognition of skills, vocational training, grants for self-initiated training, training and assistance for business creation, support for self-employment and recruitment incentives. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report which will promote the reintegration of these portuguese workers into the labour market.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of €1.4 million to support workers made redundant by the footwear company rohde in santa maria da feira, a region with an unemployment rate above the national average. 974 workers, 87% of whom were women, were subject to collective redundancies following bankruptcy proceedings that were at least dubious. i voted in favour. the european globalisation adjustment fund does not prevent redundancies or bankruptcies, but it does allow for increased support for victims of collective redundancies. the approval of this support is an important counter-cyclical signal to the policies of eliminating social rights and facilitating dismissals. i regret, however, the slowness of the whole process. the support will eventually be unlocked 17 months after the first layoffs. i would also like to see more action in the area of education and training, as 78.5% of the workforce are low-skilled (not completed compulsory schooling).
in writing. − the application submitted by portugal for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of 974 redundancies (680 of which are potential recipients of assistance) at rohde meets all the eligibility criteria defined by law. regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009 amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund temporarily extended the scope of the egf to cover situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a period of four months in an undertaking in a member state, including workers made redundant by their suppliers or downstream producers'. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal and hope that assistance to workers made redundant will be made available quickly and efficiently and that the mobilisation of the egf will contribute to the effective reintegration of these workers into the labour market.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. rohde - società industriale di calcato luso-german, lda., a footwear company, decided to close down its business, which resulted in the dismissal of 974 workers. on 26 november 2010, portugal submitted an application to mobilise the egf in order to provide funding for the implementation of a training programme for 680 workers made redundant in the company santa maria da feira. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the funds allocated to portugal in the amount of eur 1.4 million (65% of the overall budgeted amount) will make a decisive contribution to the reintegration of workers into working life. they are expected to participate in vocational training, recognition of skills and access to grants to encourage entrepreneurship. it should be noted that the egf is not intended to replace rohde's legal and financial responsibilities, as it is complementary to the eu support to alleviate the social difficulties of portuguese workers.
in writing. - i welcome this report and strongly support the egf as an instrument of eu solidarity towards workers affected by the negative effects of globalisation and the current crisis.
in writing. - the accession of bulgaria and romania to the union entailed an enlargement of the customs union between the member states, so there was a need to negotiate compensatory adjustments with members of the international trade organisation who had rights over those countries. such adjustment is required if the adoption of the union's external tariff entails a decrease in the advantages for third states. this was the case for argentina, which, as the rapporteur argues, must now be compensated for this damage, since, as article xxiv (4) of gatt states: the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area must aim to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not create obstacles to trade between other contracting parties with these territories.
in writing. - the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the republic of argentina pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the eu. the aim of this agreement, signed in april 2011, is to make a compensatory adjustment due to the increase in the consolidated duties and to comply with the requirements of the world trade organisation (wto). the products covered by the agreement are boned buffalo and beef from argentina and the increase in the erga omnes tariff quota for common wheat, barley for the brewing industry and maize. as argentina has been affected in its trade rights by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria, i welcome the approval of this agreement and the re-establishment of argentine trade rights.
in writing. − as a consequence of accession to the european union, member states are obliged to harmonise their trade policies with community rules. this report is an example of this. in view of the agreements between the eu and different countries on customs and trade, the countries applying for eu membership have to amend the concessions provided for in their schedules. at the time of the accession of bulgaria and romania, the tariff concessions of these two countries to argentina were lower than those established at eu level. it is therefore argued that in order to comply with wto requirements and not to harm argentina, these two countries should open their markets to argentinian products. we consider that this constraint and obligation infringe the sovereign right of each country to decide its bilateral relations in international trade in accordance with its interests and the needs of its population. this change to the concessions in the bulgarian and romanian lists will not alter the volume of imports of argentinian products into the european union, so the impact on other countries, such as portugal, will be non-existent.
in writing. − following accession to the european union, member states are obliged to harmonise their trade policies with community rules. this report is an example of this. based on the agreements between the eu and different countries on customs and trade, countries applying for eu membership have to amend the concessions in their schedules. at the time of the accession of bulgaria and romania, the tariff concessions of these two countries to argentina were lower than those established at eu level. it is therefore argued that in order to comply with wto requirements and not to harm argentina, these two countries should open their markets to argentinian products. this constraint and obligation undermines the sovereign right of each country to decide its bilateral relations at international level in the field of trade in accordance with its interests and the needs of its population. this change to the concessions in the bulgarian and romanian lists will not alter the volume of imports of argentinian products into the european union, so the impact on other countries, such as portugal, will be non-existent.
in writing. - article xxiv (4) of gatt stresses that the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area must be designed to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not to create obstacles to trade between the other contracting parties and these territories. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, because argentina has the right to see its trade rights restored, rights which were slightly affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria. with such agreements, the eu demonstrates its respect for the rules of the multilateral trading system, hoping to contribute to a collective will to reach a global agreement in the doha round.
in writing. - argentina had suffered a slight deterioration in its trade rights as a result of the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria, and this accession had the effect of reducing argentina's customs duties. this agreement shows that the eu intends to respect the rules of the multilateral trading system, hoping in this way to contribute to a collective will to reach a global agreement in the doha round. the studies carried out and the dialogue with the interested parties have confirmed that this agreement does not harm the eu's agricultural interests, which is my main concern, as it merely restores the rights previously existing in argentina. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the enlargement of the community to include bulgaria and romania has made it necessary to revise the external arrangements for customs arrangements concluded with third countries. under gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade), the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area should aim to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not create obstacles to trade between other contracting parties with these territories. the subject of the agreement in the form of letters between the european union and argentina is part of this renegotiation process, which aims to bring the range of rights of both contracting parties back into balance within the framework of the common tariff rules. the agreement covers boned beef and veal, boned buffalo meat and the increase in the tariff quota for common wheat, barley, barley for the brewing industry and maize. i voted in favour of this agreement because i agree with the subject matter.
in writing. - australia's historical and cultural affinities with europe may make it increasingly important in a multipolar world. as with argentina, brazil, china, cuba and the united states, australia also suffered a loss in customs duties when bulgaria and romania joined the european union and this loss should be compensated by increasing the tariff quotas for the products concerned.
in writing. - the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (eu) and australia pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the eu. the aim of this agreement is to make a compensatory adjustment in view of the increase in the consolidated duties and to meet the requirements of the world trade organization (wto). although the council authorised the commission to open negotiations in january 2007, the agreement was not signed until 24 may 2011. the products covered by this agreement are meat of animals of the ovine and caprine species. usually, eu enlargement is beneficial for wto members. however, and considering that australia has been harmed in its trade rights by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria, i welcome the approval of this agreement and the re-establishment of australian trade rights.
in writing. - article xxiv (4) of gatt stresses that the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area must be designed to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not to create obstacles to trade between the other contracting parties and these territories. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, because australia has the right to see its trade rights restored, rights which were slightly affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria. with such agreements, the eu demonstrates its respect for the rules of the multilateral trading system, hoping to contribute to a collective will to reach a global agreement in the doha round.
in writing. - the enlargement of the community to include bulgaria and romania has made it necessary to revise the external arrangements for customs arrangements concluded with third countries. under gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade), the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area should aim to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not create obstacles to trade between other contracting parties with these territories. the subject of the agreement in the form of letters between the european union and australia falls within this context of renegotiation, aimed at rebalancing the range of rights of both contracting parties within the regulatory framework of the common tariff rules. in this case, the agreement covers meat from sheep and goat animals. i voted in favour of this agreement because i agree with the subject matter.
in writing. - new zealand will be compensated for the reduction in its customs duties following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union by increasing the tariff quotas affected by that reduction. in promoting such compensation, the european union is acting with good judgment and is seeking to respect the spirit of gatt in order to contribute to an increasingly fair and free world trade.
in writing. - the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (eu) and new zealand pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedules of the republic of bulgaria and romania in the context of their accession to the eu. the purpose of this agreement, signed on 28 april 2011, is to make a countervailing adjustment by virtue of the increase in the consolidated duties and to comply with the requirements of the world trade organisation (wto). the products covered by this agreement are sheepmeat, goatmeat and high-quality beefmeat. usually, eu enlargement is beneficial for wto members. however, and considering that new zealand has been affected in its trade rights by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria, i welcome the approval of this agreement and the re-establishment of new zealand trade rights.
in writing. - article xxiv (4) of gatt stresses that the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area must be designed to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not to create obstacles to trade between the other contracting parties and these territories. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report because new zealand has the right to see its trade rights restored, rights which were slightly affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria. with such agreements, the eu demonstrates its respect for the rules of the multilateral trading system, hoping to contribute to a collective will to reach a global agreement in the doha round.
in writing. - new zealand's trade rights were slightly affected by the enlargement of the eu customs union to romania and bulgaria, which resulted in a reduction in argentina's customs duties. this agreement is another example of the eu's intention to respect the rules of the multilateral trading system, hoping to contribute to a collective will to reach a comprehensive agreement in the doha round. the studies carried out and the dialogue with the interested parties have confirmed that this agreement does not harm the eu's agricultural interests, which is my main concern, as it merely restores the previously existing rights of new zealand. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - with the enlargement of the community to include bulgaria and romania, the need arose to revise the external arrangements for tariff agreements with third countries. under gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade), the establishment of a customs union or a free trade area should aim to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not create obstacles to trade between other contracting parties with these territories. the subject of the agreement in the form of letters between the european union and new zealand is part of this renegotiation, which aims to rebalance the range of rights of both contracting parties within the regulatory framework of the common tariff rules. in this case, the agreement covers sheepmeat and goatmeat and high-quality beef and veal. i voted in favour of this agreement because i agree with the subject matter.
in writing. - i approve this report, in accordance with article xxiv and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 as regards the modification of concessions in the timetables of bulgaria and romania in the course of accession to the european union.
in writing. - i vote against this report. in particular, it would point out that the detection, prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances must take account of the specific vulnerabilities of each country or region, such as the most peripheral regions and countries, whose resources and geographical positioning are an asset to the european economy. i would, however, like to stress the importance of the introduction of article 5a in the regulation, which calls for the commission to have a stronger role by limiting the role of the council in warning and sanctioning member states.
in writing. − the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), implies the observance of the following guiding principles: stable prices, sound public finances and monetary conditions and a sustainable balance of payments. the aim is to lay down rules governing the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability and convergence programmes in the framework of multilateral surveillance to be exercised by the commission and the council in order to avoid, at an early stage, the occurrence of excessive budget deficits and debt and to promote the surveillance and coordination of economic policies, thereby supporting the achievement of the union's objectives in the field of growth and employment. the european parliament shall be involved in the european semester in order to increase transparency, ownership and accountability of decisions taken, including through economic dialogue. the council will be obliged to publicly justify to the european parliament any failure to follow the european commission's recommendations on situations of violation of the stability and growth pact. the introduction of reverse majority voting throughout the package, particularly in the preventive part of the stability and growth pact, is noteworthy. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that the presentation and evaluation of the stability and convergence programmes should be carried out before fundamental decisions are taken on national budgets for the following years. a specific deadline should therefore be set for the submission of those programmes. the stability and growth pact and the overall economic governance framework complement and support the union's strategy for growth and jobs.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance, which should play a decisive role in preventing future crises and in strengthening european competitiveness and economic growth. i support the wortmann-kool report on strengthening budgetary surveillance and economic policy coordination. i agree with the introduction of reverse majority voting throughout the package, and in particular in the preventive part of the stability and growth pact. the role of the european commission is thus strengthened by requiring the council to adopt a qualified majority to derogate from the commission's decision. i think the economic dialogue envisaged here is very important, as it ensures greater transparency and accountability and the obvious and necessary link with the european semester. i welcome the strengthening of the rules of the stability and growth pact, allowing for greater surveillance, seeking to avoid, at an early stage, the occurrence of budget deficits, but also excessive debt, with a view to sustainable growth.
in writing. the report is one of six legislative proposals from the european parliament and the council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances under the stability and growth pact (sgp). this report highlights the relevance of the criteria set out in the sgp and the need for their inclusion in the jurisdictions of the member states (ms), ensuring that ms include the criteria in their annual budget deficit and public debt. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is part of a restructuring plan which is necessary for the efficiency and rigour of european economic policy and adds value to the whole legislative pact in question. i believe that good economic governance is achieved through better political coordination through a strengthened supervisory framework, which ensures the national transposition of community rules. however, it cannot be left without criticism that the proposals made by the commission on 15 september 2010 did not receive the council's agreement until more than a year later.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies because it is part of a legislative package on economic governance whose measures are almost exclusively austerity and sanctions, which will have very negative consequences for the european economy and for european citizens. austerity alone will not solve the eurozone crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the introduction of a new tax on the sale of goods and services.
in writing. - two important lessons can be drawn from the recent crisis: the need for organised public finances and the urgency of working towards greater coordination of economic policies between member states, with a strong emphasis on prevention. and it is precisely these two points that this report deals with. i would like to stress at the outset the important inclusion of the european semester in this legislative document, which is increasingly providing, in the interests of a strong and balanced economic union, an effective platform for joint political discussion of the budgetary policies adopted by all member states. i stress the vital importance of all the member states of the union having their public finances in order and the need to adopt ever more responsible economic policies that guarantee sustainability and growth. we need to adopt policies of savings, especially in good times, to better cope with times of greater adversity. i consider this report to be fundamental to our achieving, as a union, coordination and an ever greater prevention and correction of wrong policies. finally, i would like to thank my group colleague, mrs corien wortmann-kool, for her exemplary work in leading and completing this package.
in writing. - this report, by corien wortmann-kool, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1466/97 as regards the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies. the global economic and financial crisis has revealed some fragility within the european union, so we need a comprehensive framework for economic governance that is in line with the eu's strategy for growth and jobs. the current economic situation is very complicated, so we need a strong and sustained response. because it is necessary to stabilise the economic sustainability of the euro area, i voted in favour of this report, because i believe that it sets out a set of rigorous but realistic principles, namely the preventive coordination of all european finances, the creation of conditions of stability so that we do not pass on to future generations the difficulties that are currently being experienced in some eu countries, in short, the transition to genuine economic governance in the eu.
in writing. - another piece of the package of six legislative diplomas of so-called economic governance, which aims to strengthen the supervision of budgetary situations and the supervision and coordination of policies. this regulation lays down the rules governing the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability and convergence programmes, in the context of the multilateral surveillance which the commission and the council wish to carry out at an early stage, with the aim of preventing excessive budget deficits and debt and promoting the supervision and coordination of economic policies. we are facing an unacceptable emptying of the powers of the political structures close to the citizens and controlled by them. they always argue that the objective is growth and employment, but because they forget the policies of solidarity and economic and social cohesion, betting only on monetary and neoliberal policies that interest economic and financial groups to guarantee them more profits, what we will have, as the experiences of greece, ireland and portugal have already clearly demonstrated, is more social inequalities, more unemployment and more poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - we voted against this report, which is part of the package of six legislative instruments on economic governance and aims to strengthen the monitoring of budgetary positions and the monitoring and coordination of policies. this regulation lays down the rules governing the content, presentation, examination and monitoring of stability and convergence programmes, in the context of the multilateral surveillance which the commission and the council wish to carry out at an early stage, with the aim of preventing excessive budget deficits and debt and promoting the supervision and coordination of economic policies. they always argue that the objective is growth and employment, but because they forget the policies of solidarity and economic and social cohesion, betting only on monetary and neoliberal policies that interest economic and financial groups to guarantee them more profits, what we will have, as the experiences of greece, ireland and portugal already demonstrate, is more social inequalities, more unemployment and more poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − experience gained and mistakes made during the first decade of the functioning of economic and monetary union show the need for better economic governance in the union, which should be based on greater national ownership of commonly adopted standards and policies and a more robust framework for the supervision at union level of national economic policies. in accordance with the legal and political provisions of each member state, national parliaments should be duly involved in the semester and in the preparation of the stability programmes, convergence programmes and national reform programmes in order to increase transparency, ownership and accountability of the decisions taken. the economic and financial committee, the economic policy committee, the employment committee and the social protection committee shall be consulted within the framework of the semester, where appropriate. relevant stakeholders, including social partners, will be involved in the semester on the main policy issues, where appropriate, in accordance with the provisions of the tfeu and national legal and political provisions.
in writing. − within the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion on strengthening the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies was also voted. i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the concerns of the rapporteur, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key issues: 1) the eu framework for budgetary surveillance should be extended to include the employment and social dimensions; 2) the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states should be taken into account in the presentation of their stability and convergence programmes and during the evaluation of these programmes; (3) member states' stability and convergence programmes should include information on the consistency of member states' budgetary objectives with the eu strategy for growth and jobs, such as strategy 2020, and in particular with the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment policy guidelines. i would stress the introduction of reverse majority voting throughout the package, particularly in this preventive part of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. the success of the community's economic policy is to a large extent due to the vitality of the action of all those who, more or less closely, are involved in the process of its implementation. in this context, it is important to stress the need for the commission, as the real executive body of the eu, to play an active supervisory and controlling role in order to ensure economic governance that is able to meet the challenges it faces. the need for coordination between the community institutions and the national parliaments should also be stressed.
in writing. the final vote on the so-called six-pack is a clear signal that the european union intends, through preventive and corrective mechanisms, to avoid future sovereign debts, in particular budget deficits and excessive debt. a common monetary area requires the implementation of concerted economic and financial policies, i.e. the creation of a european economic government. the report thus seeks to strengthen the instruments of the stability and growth pact by placing greater emphasis on the public debt criterion with a specific limit of 60% of gdp. the institutionalisation of the european semester, with the strengthening of economic dialogue between the institutions and the member states, and the inclusion in the national reform programmes of the objectives set by the eu, are some of the changes. the objective of including the reverse qualified majority voting mechanism in the council at all stages of the evaluation procedure was not achieved. the ep stressed, however, the need for this procedure when the member state fails to take appropriate measures to combat debt and deficit. this report is thus the first step of many that the eu needs to take to establish itself as a strong and cohesive economic bloc, capable of responding to economic and financial shocks.
in writing. - i disapprove of this report. it is urgent that the european union should act more quickly in the field of economic governance when the diagnosis is obvious. and we can't decide the minimum necessary. the crisis is being paid for by the young, the poor and the unemployed, especially in the peripheries of europe, and this crisis is the result of a lack of foresight and of the capacity to react. budgetary controls required by certain member states should not override the growth potential of the most vulnerable member states, otherwise the euro area could suffer serious consequences. emphasis should be placed on growth and jobs and on making the necessary funds available to the most vulnerable member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that strengthening economic governance must include greater involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments. the commission should have a stronger coordinating role in the enhanced surveillance process, in particular with regard to assessments, monitoring, on-site missions, recommendations and alerts specific to each member state. in order to ensure a permanent dialogue with the member states with a view to achieving the objectives of this regulation, the commission should carry out inspection visits.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance, which should play a decisive role in preventing future crises and in strengthening european competitiveness and economic growth. i support the goulard report on the effective application of budgetary surveillance. it is important to establish common parameters to ensure the correct and independent compilation of statistics, which are essential for the design and monitoring of budgetary strategies. i welcome the provision for fines of up to 0.2% of gdp in cases of fraudulent statistics, to penalise fraud in relation to the calculation of the deficit and public debt both inside and outside the euro area. i agree that non-euro countries may join this system.
in writing. the report supports the commission's position in general, but makes new proposals to prevent and correct member states' macroeconomic imbalances. i would stress the need to strengthen the economic dialogue between the member states, the commission, the european parliament and the council, and to introduce fines for the presentation of fraudulent statistics, both inside and outside the euro area. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the rules of budgetary discipline are being strengthened and that this approach is therefore objectively strengthening the community institutions and is contrary to the founding principles of our union. however, i regret once again that the proposals made by the commission on 15 september 2010 did not receive the council's agreement until more than a year later.
in writing. - i voted against the report on budgetary surveillance in the euro area because it is part of a legislative package on economic governance whose measures are almost exclusively austerity and sanctions, which will have very negative consequences for the european economy and for european citizens. austerity alone will not solve the eurozone crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the introduction of a new tax on the sale of goods and services.
in writing. - in this report, i would like to highlight what i consider to be the most important advance: the possibility of creating a system which is not based solely on the sanctions part of the stability and growth pact (sgp), but which, on the contrary, allows the introduction of real incentives which lead and develop an effective will on the part of member state governments to comply with the rules laid down in the sgp. in this connection, i would like to point out that the european commission will be presenting a study on the issue of european debt securities with joint and several liability. i would also like to highlight the extraordinary work done here, with the institutionalisation of an economic dialogue between the various european institutions, together with the promotion of the participation of national parliaments and governments in a genuine democratic debate on economic policies. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, sylvie goulard, on her work and commitment to getting the most out of this package.
in writing. - this report, by sylvie goulard, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area. the current economic and financial situation in several eu member states demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the growth and stability plans (gsps) as, in addition to the need for strict control of the government deficit within the values defined by the maastricht treaty, it is imperative to control public and private indebtedness. the european institutions have done everything they can to help member states emerge from the crisis. however, they must be more rigorous in their public accounts. it is unacceptable that countries falsify their statistics to deceive the european union (eu). i therefore welcome the strengthening of the coordination and supervision mechanisms that increase the surveillance of eu countries' budgets - in order to prevent them from making gross errors in their budgetary policies that could jeopardise economic and monetary union itself - in particular the monitoring agencies, as well as the introduction of a set of sanctions for all member states that commit budgetary imbalances. only then will we achieve more development and greater economic growth.
in writing. - this report acknowledges some of the difficulties and mistakes made during the first decade of the functioning of economic and monetary union. but in doing so, it is immediately taking a genuine leap forward, insisting on a more robust framework for the commission and council to monitor the very economic policies which are at the root of the errors and difficulties mentioned. it also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. this means that they want more neoliberal policies, more privatization, more free competition, more policies that create divergence and inequality, more policies that favor the stronger at the expense of the weaker. in other words, it ends up insisting on the same kind of monetary and neoliberal policies, tightening the real yoke on the member states even more, without looking at the causes of the problems or at alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. it therefore insists on the payment of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them by the reinforced sgp. as with the other legislative documents in the so-called economic governance package, we also voted against this report.
in writing. - we also voted against this report on the six-pillar legislative package on economic governance. it is one of the key pieces of legislation in the economic governance package. this is the regulation on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is also important to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the treaty. this means that they want more neoliberal policies, more privatization, more free competition, more policies that favor the stronger at the expense of the weaker. in other words, it ends up insisting on the same kind of monetary and neoliberal policies and criteria, deepening the real stick imposed on the member states, without looking at the causes of the problems or at alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. it therefore insists on the payment of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them by the reinforced sgp.
in writing. - we voted against the report, but i was in favour of amendment no 10 on the issue of european bonds, eurobonds. these represent an important and necessary step towards finding solutions in solidarity among member states to resolve the sovereign debt crisis.
in writing. - strengthening economic governance should include greater involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments the achievement and maintenance of a dynamic single market should be considered as an element of the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. the commission should have a stronger coordinating role in the enhanced surveillance process, in particular with regard to assessments, monitoring, on-site missions, recommendations and alerts specific to each member state. more specifically, the role of the council in sanctions decision-making processes should be limited and reversed qualified majority voting in the council should be used.
in writing. − within the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion on the effective implementation of budgetary surveillance in the euro area was voted. i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the concerns of the rapporteur, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key issues: (i) the implementation of budgetary surveillance must always be subordinated to requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment; 3) strengthening budgetary supervision through a system of monitoring compliance, not only through a system of fines (sanctions) but also through a system of incentives, and 4) strengthening the role of the european parliament as well as national parliaments in the whole supervisory process. i would stress the introduction of the obligation for the council to publicly justify, in the european parliament, any failure to follow the european commission's recommendations in relation to situations of violation of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. - budgetary surveillance by the community institutions within the euro area is essential to ensure the stability of the common currency. the commission must therefore adopt an active monitoring approach, coordinating its action with the executive bodies of the member states and with national parliaments and not neglecting to carry out inspection visits to the different states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very important one.
in writing. - i abstain from this report. i cannot vote in favour of this report because it does not remove the idea that the austerity vision must face the crisis and it puts obstacles in the way of the necessary public investment as a recovery instrument.
in writing. − preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances is an important tool to address the fragility resulting from, inter alia, medium and long-term structural trends, growing divergences within the eu, and the spill-over effects of policies in different member states. it is important to broaden the scope of supervision in order to avoid damaging macroeconomic imbalances. the framework for the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances should place emphasis on the early detection and prevention of potential imbalances. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that the framework for strengthened economic governance should be based on a number of interlinked, coherent policies for sustainable growth and employment, including a union strategy for growth and employment - with a particular focus on developing and strengthening the internal market and promoting international trade and competitiveness - an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budget deficits (stability and growth pact), a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks and strengthened financial market regulation and supervision.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance, which should play a decisive role in preventing future crises and in strengthening european competitiveness and economic growth. i support the haglund report on the application of measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances, which establishes a system of sanctions for the purpose of effectively correcting these imbalances. i support the increasing use of automatic procedures, whereby warnings and sanctions can only be blocked by the council by a qualified majority.
in writing. − the regulation gives added importance to the comparative framework of member states' macroeconomic indicators as a tool for identifying and monitoring imbalances (early warning system), which will trigger a deeper study in order to understand the real causes of these imbalances. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the new monitoring mechanisms created (or already existing but improved) will make it possible to identify and correct imbalances more clearly at an embryonic stage, which will allow for corrective action in more efficient and effective ways. i would, however, have liked to see the role of the european parliament strengthened in this process, particularly as regards its inclusion in the decision-making process. i know i am repeating myself, but i must absolutely criticise the fact that the proposals made by the commission on 15 september 2010 did not receive the council's agreement until more than a year later.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the report on the implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, because it is part of a legislative package on economic governance whose measures are almost exclusively austerity and sanctions, which will have very negative consequences for the european economy and for european citizens. austerity alone will not solve the eurozone crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the introduction of a new tax on the sale of goods and services.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the introduction of a common mechanism of sanctions for the correction of macroeconomic imbalances, alongside what is now happening under the rules of the stability and growth pact. the procedure set out in this report is entirely new in the community legal framework and i believe it will play an indispensable role in the future macroeconomic policies of the member states. it will not only allow for greater coordination but also for greater accountability of governments at national and community level. i would also like to stress the introduction of the reversed qualified majority rule in the council when decisions are being taken which are essential for the effective operation of this package. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague carl haglund on all his excellent work and dedication.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to set up a european agency for fundamental rights (fra) to monitor the implementation of the european union's financial instruments and to provide the commission with the necessary information. the present report, by mr carl haglund, is part of this strategy and provides for implementing measures to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. in april 2011, the committee on economic and monetary affairs had already approved a set of measures to strengthen the stability and growth pact and budgetary surveillance. i welcome the adoption of this regulation which, in addition to avoiding excessive indebtedness and deficits, will enhance the early detection of budgetary deviations and harmful macroeconomic imbalances so that the competent authorities can take the necessary corrective measures in good time. in addition, the new legislative framework will provide for a set of penalties to deter member states from failing to act.
in writing. - we consider this resolution to be a positive step forward in the area of rights based on gender and sexual orientation and against discrimination. that is why we voted in favour of it. but we cannot help but have some considerations. human rights are indeed indivisible. however, while taking this positive step, the european union is engaged in a process of accelerated denial and even destruction of social rights (which are human rights), and even economic and political rights. this is the case in many member states under the austerity regime, but especially in those, such as portugal, which are subject to genuine imf-eu aggression programmes. these attacks affect everyone, including the social groups most mentioned in this resolution. at the same time, several eu countries and the eu itself are engaged in acts of interference and aggression, as in the case of libya, or in condoning crimes, as in the case of israeli crimes against the palestinian people, or in the past, in engaging in acts of gross disregard for human rights, such as cia flights and secret detentions, which call into question the principles set out in this resolution. in other words, the european union lacks the credibility to speak of universal and indivisible human rights.
in writing. - we voted against this report which essentially supports the commission's proposal for a regulation on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, another key piece of legislation in the economic governance package. it is concerned in particular with a system of sanctions and the application of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed by the european commission on the basis of delegated acts. the european parliament wishes to see it applied to all states which, although not members of the euro area, have notified the commission of their intention to apply this regulation. it is a process of interference which insists on the application of the same type of monetary and neoliberal policies and criteria, deepening the real stick imposed on the member states, without looking at the causes of the problems or at alternative policies which take account of the different degrees of development of the economies. what it does is to extend the application of sanctions and the payment of fines to states which do not comply with the requirements imposed on them, placing them in a position of genuine submission to the european institutions, just to serve the interests of economic and financial groups, which is unacceptable.
in writing. − the enhanced economic governance framework should be based on a number of interlinked policies for sustainable growth and employment that are consistent with each other, including a union strategy for growth and employment - with a particular focus on developing and strengthening the internal market and promoting international trade and competitiveness - an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budget deficits (stability and growth pact), a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks and strengthened financial market regulation and supervision. it is essential that the procedure is part of the annual cycle of multilateral surveillance. the existence of reliable statistical data is essential for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. in order to ensure the existence of sound and independent statistics, member states should ensure the professional independence of national statistical authorities in accordance with the european statistics code of practice established by regulation (ec) no 223/2009. in addition, the availability of sound budgetary data is also important for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. this requirement should be ensured by the rules laid down in this respect by regulation (eu) no [.../...] on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area, in particular article 6a thereof.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on implementing measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, which is part of the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area. the commission's proposals on improving economic governance are of the utmost importance for the future of the eu and for economic growth, in particular in the euro area. the crucial importance of these measures has led the european parliament's rapporteurs to decide to examine the commission's proposals thoroughly as a package and to improve them in order to establish a solid and coherent framework for the coming decades. the rapporteurs took the commission's proposals as the starting point for their work. this is the first time that parliament has taken part in the council's decision-making process on the union's macroeconomic developments. i would stress the inclusion in the regulation on macroeconomic imbalances of the obligation of the european commission to analyse both deficit countries and countries in surplus, in order to have a realistic view of the european macroeconomic framework.
in writing. − integrated economic governance, linking the work of the community institutions with that of national authorities, is essential to correct macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. given the existence of a shared monetary area, the failure of one member state to comply with the common regulatory framework has repercussions on the situation of all the others, necessitating the adoption of sanctions to ensure the effective functioning of the whole area. on the other hand, a sound basis for decision-making based on reliable data on the economic situation in the community cannot be dispensed with, and it is therefore necessary to promote rigorous statistics to assist policy-making bodies.
in writing. the adoption of this report, which is part of the six-pack, aims to identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances in advance, before they become real problems for national economies. it is therefore important to identify the risks, to know whether they are the responsibility of the country or whether they come from abroad and to make the appropriate recommendations at the right time. the strengthening of the commission's role as watchdog and controller of policies relating to the sgp is fundamental to the implementation of a genuine european economic governance, thus reinforcing the community method. in addition to the establishment of a symmetrical intelligent system, with the inclusion of more macroeconomic and structural data in the statistical indicator panel, i would stress the new procedure for excessive imbalances, whereby the commission can warn the member state in advance. if the country ignores the warning, the commission may make a recommendation to the council that the country take corrective measures (using the so-called reverse qualified majority voting). more than imposing sanctions, it is now important to take the necessary measures to prevent future crises. the strengthening of the role of the european commission throughout the preventive and monitoring process once again underlines the need to centrise decisions in the eu's community pillar.
in writing. - i vote in favour, since the commitments most important to the socialists have been achieved. the report calls for greater involvement of the european parliament in decisions on macroeconomic imbalances, calls for the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to be taken into account and includes in article 1 the need to pay attention to social rights, in line with the tfeu.
in writing. − on 29 september 2010, the european commission presented a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the european union and the euro area. this reinforcement must be linked to the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken, i.e. with the closer and timely involvement of the interested parties, the national parliaments and the european parliament. this report, which i supported, lays down detailed rules for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances and for the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the union. the alert mechanism is designed to facilitate early identification and monitoring of imbalances. if the measures taken or envisaged in the corrective action plan or the respective timetable for implementation are considered insufficient, the council, on a recommendation from the commission, shall adopt a recommendation to the member states to submit a new corrective action plan within two months. the recommendation of the commission on non-compliance shall be deemed to have been adopted by the council unless the council, acting by a qualified majority, decides to reject the recommendation within 10 days of its adoption by the commission. member states may request that a meeting of the council be convened for the purpose of voting on the decision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union should be developed in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines and imply compliance with the guiding principles on price stability, sound and sustainable public finances and monetary conditions, and the sustainability of the balance of payments. the commission and the council should cooperate closely when preparing the scoreboard and the set of macroeconomic and macro-financial indicators for the member states. the indicators and thresholds should be established and adjusted as necessary to adapt to the evolving nature of macroeconomic imbalances, inter alia, due to the evolution of risks to macroeconomic stability or to the improvement of the availability of relevant statistics. the commission should submit, for consideration by the competent committees of the council and the european parliament, suggestions on plans to establish and adapt the indicators and thresholds. the commission should inform the council and the european parliament of changes to the indicators and thresholds and explain its reasons for such changes.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance, which should play a decisive role in preventing future crises and in strengthening european competitiveness and economic growth. i support the report by mrs elisa ferreira which lays down detailed rules for the detection of macroeconomic imbalances and for the prevention and correction of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the eu. support the creation of an alert mechanism designed to facilitate the early identification and monitoring of imbalances, both short-term and those resulting from structural and long-term trends. i congratulate the commission on the forecast scoreboard, which is made up of a small number of relevant, practical, simple, measurable and available macroeconomic and macrofinancial indicators for the member states. i also think it is important to include in the regulation the obligation for the european commission to analyse both deficit countries and countries in surplus, so as to have a realistic view of the european macroeconomic framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the elisa ferreira report because it contains important measures to prevent future crises, such as the establishment of a framework of indicators to identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances that may arise in the eu and the euro area.
in writing. - it is very important to stress the importance of this regulation, which, being entirely new in the community legal framework, is absolutely innovative in its content and in what it proposes: to identify and correct macroeconomic imbalances in the union. following the lessons of the recent crisis, this report is distinguished by its desire to ensure a strong and balanced economic union by monitoring and coordinating economic policies in the various member states, in particular by highlighting the need to monitor both deficit and surplus countries in order to obtain a concrete overview. this report aims to create an alert mechanism for possible future imbalances that may occur in a given member state, allowing for their immediate and effective correction. finally, i would like to congratulate my compatriot elisa ferreira on all her hard work and dedication, which was not always easy but clearly worthwhile.
in writing. the european council welcomed the commission's proposal to set up a european agency for fundamental rights (fra) to support the european union's efforts to combat fraud and corruption. the report, drawn up by mrs elisa ferreira, is part of this strategy and supports a regulation aimed at preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area, particularly at a time when the european union is going through a very complicated phase due to the possible bankruptcy of one of its member states. i welcome the agreement reached by the finance ministers, aware that it is a very positive sign for investors and for the financial markets and a proof of the eu's ability to overcome its problems, and i welcome the adoption of this report which will be a response that will help to avoid future crises. to this end, it is based on a logic of austerity and the strengthening of sanctions for countries that do not comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. - this report is an integral part of the so-called economic governance package. like the other reports in this package, this one deserves our vote against. it is not enough to identify macroeconomic imbalances in the member states if there are no alternative community policies of convergence and economic and social cohesion to address such imbalances. moreover, by identifying imbalances, we must state their causes - something which the right wing and the social democrats have always been unable to do. in particular, it recognised that the creation of the single currency, in the image of the deutsche mark, was based on wrong assumptions, which only served the interests of economic and financial groups in the countries with the strongest economies. and that this is the root cause of the worsening crises in the weakest economies. it is not enough to make declarations of good intentions on the defence of employment and labour and social rights if, instead of ending the stability pact and the euro plus pact, they prefer to extend their demands and to strengthen sanctions against countries with weaker economies and their peoples, victims of neoliberal policies.
in writing. - we voted against this report because it is part of the package of six legislative documents on economic governance, revealing contradictions in the european union. it is not enough to identify macroeconomic imbalances in the member states if there are no alternative community policies of solidarity and economic and social cohesion to address such imbalances. it is not enough, therefore, to make declarations of good intentions on the defence of employment and labour and social rights if, instead of ending the stability pact and the euro pact and replacing them with a genuine pact for social progress and development, they prefer to broaden their demands and to strengthen sanctions against countries and peoples who are victims of neoliberal policies. until european leaders recognize that their policies are the root cause of the crises that persist, we shall be witnessing a deterioration of the economic, social and political situation, which will inevitably lead to further social tensions and new conflicts with unforeseeable consequences. what will happen if they do not recognize that the creation of the single currency, in the image of the deutsche mark, was based on wrong assumptions, which only served the interests of powerful economic and financial groups. and that this is the root cause of the worsening crises in the weakest economies.
in writing. − the coordination of the economic policies of the member states within the union should be developed in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines and imply compliance with the guiding principles on price stability, sound and sustainable public finances and monetary conditions, and the sustainability of the balance of payments. a procedure for the supervision and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, containing preventive and corrective elements, requires strengthened supervisory instruments, based on those used in the multilateral supervisory procedure. this procedure may include enhanced commission surveillance missions in the member states, in cooperation with the european central bank (ecb) for the euro area and erm2 member states, and additional reporting by the member state in the event of serious imbalances, including imbalances that undermine the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union. the social partners and other stakeholders at national level should therefore participate in the dialogue where relevant.
in writing. − on 29 september 2010, the commission presented a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the eu and the euro area. the package comprises six proposals: four deal with budgetary issues, including a reform of the stability and growth pact (sgp), while two new regulations aim to detect and address emerging macroeconomic imbalances in the eu and the euro area. this draft opinion concerns the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies. it is agreed that the sgp, both in its preventive and corrective aspects, has failed and needs to be reformed. i agree with the amendments to the commission's original proposal which have won a large majority of support in the european parliament. i believe that it is important to take account of the experience gained during the years of the previous eec and, on the other hand, to take account of the increased democratization of economic governance by strengthening the role of the european parliament in the whole supervisory process. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances must be based on joint action by all community actors. in this connection, the role of the commission and the council as a common guiding force is emphasized, from the very beginning of the delimitation of the macroeconomic indicators relevant for the definition of a panel for assessing the situation of the member states, thus providing indices which serve as the basis for assessing the macroeconomic situation of the states. the need for a cooperative approach by the member states in the search for shared political guidelines should also be emphasized.
in writing. - i abstain from this report. although public deficits must be cut, the report could go further, because it conveys the ideology that an austerity agenda, with procedures, incentives, sanctions, etc., will solve everything and does not consider that social indicators such as unemployment may aggravate the social crisis.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has exposed and increased the need for coordination and improved surveillance of economic policies in economic and monetary union (emu). these recent experiences have also revealed gaps and shortcomings in the current coordination system and in the existing supervisory procedures. this report, which i supported, sets out the arrangements for speeding up and clarifying the application of the excessive deficit procedure. the objective of the excessive deficit procedure is to avoid excessive budget deficits and, if they occur, to correct them rapidly, in which case compliance with budgetary discipline is assessed on the basis of the budget deficit and government debt criteria. in order to strengthen the dialogue between the union institutions, in particular the european parliament, the council and the commission, and to ensure greater transparency and accountability, the competent committee of the european parliament may invite the president of the council, the commission and, where appropriate, the president of the european council or the president of the eurogroup to appear before the commission to discuss the council's decision. the competent committee of the european parliament may give the member state concerned by such recommendations, notifications and decisions the opportunity to participate in an exchange of views.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that the common framework for economic governance needs to be improved, in particular with regard to strengthening budgetary surveillance, in line with the high degree of integration achieved between the economies of the member states in the european union, in particular in the euro area. the rules on budgetary discipline should be strengthened, in particular by giving a much more prominent role to debt levels and developments and to sustainability in general. the mechanisms for ensuring compliance with and enforcement of those rules should also be strengthened.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance, which should play a decisive role in preventing future crises and in strengthening european competitiveness and economic growth. i support the excellent report by mr diogo feio on the acceleration and clarification of the application of the excessive deficit procedure. the objective of the excessive deficit procedure is to avoid excessive budget deficits and, if they occur, to correct them promptly. i welcome the call for more speed in the process for the european commission to make its recommendations public. i think it is important that the commission should maintain a permanent dialogue with the authorities of the member states, and that it should also be possible to carry out missions to assess the real economic situation in the member state and to identify any risks or difficulties in achieving the objectives of this regulation. i support the possibility that the commission may be allowed to carry out additional surveillance missions and that the ecb may be associated with such visits.
in writing. - the report highlights the proposal for the reduction of the sovereign debt on the basis of an average rate over a three-year period, as opposed to an annual fixed rate over the same period previously advocated by the commission. i am voting in favour of these amendments because i consider them to be an important legislative instrument for developing corrective action to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the member states. i would stress that with the adoption of this document the commission will now have responsibilities in terms of coordination and supervision, taking a more dynamic position in the evaluation and monitoring of the performance of each member state. this is an important step towards restructuring, strengthening and giving greater dynamism to the european stability and growth policy. finally, i would like to emphasise that only effective economic coordination can lead to a more cohesive and competitive eu, and i cannot help criticising the fact that the proposals made by the commission on 15 september 2010 only merited the council's agreement more than a year later.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the report on the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure because it is part of a legislative package on economic governance whose measures are almost exclusively sanctions, which will have negative consequences for the european economy and for european citizens. austerity alone will not solve the eurozone crisis. public account consolidation policies are needed, which promote smart growth, social cohesion and employment.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by mr diogo feio, is on a proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1467/97 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure and is part of the economic governance package which parliament is voting on at this part-session. the global economic and financial crisis - which is showing signs of abating - has shown that the european union needs to coordinate and monitor economic policies in the economic and monetary union better. among the situations that have attracted the attention of economists and policymakers is the control of excessive deficits and macroeconomic imbalances in the member states. the dilemma we face is how to control excessive deficits and ensure economic growth. the new legislative package answers this question: much stronger supervision in the stability and growth pact, increased accountability and transparency so that we have sustainable public finances in the member states. i therefore vote in favour of this report, whose proposals are part of a wider reform undertaken under the europe 2020 strategy and which i hope will contribute to the creation of a stronger and more sustainable economy.
in writing. - this report, which forms an integral part of the so-called economic governance package, is part of the same philosophy as the others. the european union is being given the means to prevent future crises, and the policies and guidelines which are to a large extent at the root of the present crisis are being reinforced. but because it is not easy to do so, at least with the consent of the citizens, the aim is to strengthen the directory that controls the destinies of the eu, concentrating more and more economic and political power in it, removing the decisions of the citizens from the power structures that they control and that are close to them. the yoke is tightened even further on the member states, especially on the countries with the weakest economies, and on their peoples. these new rules strengthen the commission's supervisory role; they reinforce intervention in economic, social, budgetary and fiscal policies, with the argument of avoiding excessive budget deficits and debt, and provide for the application of sanctions to the most fragile member states. this set of six legal acts also regulates the so-called european semester (annual verification of national budgets), provides for hearings of the member states' finance ministers in the european parliament and establishes a faster mechanism for sanctions, including heavy fines. instead of meeting the difficulties of the weakest, they add to them.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today the so-called economic governance package, arguing that it aims to equip the eu with the means to prevent future crises. but in reality, what is at stake is the strengthening of the economic and political power that dominates the european union, establishing a garrote for the member states and their peoples, especially those countries with the weakest economies. these new rules strengthen the commission's supervisory role, intervene in economic, social, budgetary and fiscal policies on the pretext of avoiding excessive budget deficits and debt, provide for the application of sanctions to the most fragile member states and the application of new indicators to detect so-called macroeconomic imbalances. this set of six legal acts also regulates the so-called european semester (annual verification of national budgets), provides for hearings of the member states' finance ministers in the european parliament and establishes a faster mechanism for sanctions, including heavy fines. some of the legislative texts were passed by a slim majority, with left-wing and centre-left meps voting against or abstaining on several parts of the package because they felt the legislation focused too much on budgetary discipline and austerity to the detriment of economic growth and employment. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − the common economic governance framework needs to be improved, in particular with regard to strengthening budgetary surveillance, in line with the high degree of integration achieved between the economies of the member states in the european union, in particular in the euro area. in taking into account systemic pension reforms among the relevant factors, the central element to be considered should be whether such reforms will enhance the long-term sustainability of the overall pension system, without however increasing the risks to the budgetary position in the medium term. in order to facilitate compliance with the recommendations and notifications for the correction of excessive deficit situations issued by the council, it is necessary that they set annual budgetary objectives consistent with the necessary improvement of the budgetary position, in terms adjusted for cyclical changes and net of extraordinary and temporary measures. in this context, the annual reference value of 0,5% of gdp should be understood as an annual average basis.
in writing. − within the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area, this draft opinion on the commission proposal amending the regulation on speeding up and clarifying the application of the excessive deficit procedure was also voted. i voted in favour of this report because it essentially follows the concerns of the rapporteur, particularly with regard to the following points: 1) the implementation of budgetary surveillance should be subordinated to the eu's overall objectives; 2) the monitoring of the rules of budgetary discipline must take account not only of serious economic crises but also of social crises which may have an impact on the financial situation of governments; (3) fines imposed on member states which do not comply with their recommendations should be used to support the achievement of the eu's long-term investment and employment objectives and not distributed to member states which are not subject to any excessive deficit procedure, as proposed by the commission, and (4) regular consultation of the social partners and increased involvement of national parliaments should be the necessary prerequisites for a credible and transparent supervisory framework.
in writing. - budgetary discipline in the various member states is a necessary condition for the balance of the community as a whole. in this context, as is well known, the effectiveness of control is more effective than the severity of the penalty. the concern to ensure the speed of the excessive deficit procedures is therefore justified. however, any change to the regulatory framework cannot ignore the present situation or the need to give the states a period of adaptation to enable them to bring their action back within the limits prescribed by community law.
in writing. − the economic governance legislative package should be affirmed as a key instrument of the european union to prevent future crises and to foster economic competitiveness. an appropriate regulatory framework is needed to achieve key objectives such as the relaunch of the european economy and the strengthening of its internal market, the sustainability of pension systems and structural reforms to promote employment and ensure flexibility and security in the labour market. in this context, an acceleration and clarification of the application of the excessive deficit procedure is essential to measure and control the dynamics of debt in the euro area and a review of the existing rules should be undertaken to avoid a worsening of the existing situations and to allow a clearer and more flexible framework for future commission recommendations. a european economic governance with a stronger community approach must be a common concern of all member states. for this european governance to succeed, there must be a reinforced responsibility of the member states and their national parliaments, and national reform programmes must contribute to an integrated approach geared to the objective of growth and job creation. for the reasons i have outlined, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i disapprove of this report. the coordination of economic policies in the member states of the european union must focus primarily on job creation and the fight against social exclusion, not just on the balance of prices and finances.
in writing. − the commission's proposals on improving economic governance are of the utmost importance for the future of the eu and for economic growth. this report, which i supported, lays down specific rules for the budgetary frameworks of the member states, necessary to ensure compliance with the obligations of the member states in matters of avoiding excessive budget deficits. supports the need for member states to establish accounting systems that cover, in a comprehensive and consistent manner, all sectors of public administration; the council also called on the member states to ensure that their budgetary plans are based on realistic macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts, using the most up-to-date information. all bodies and funds of general government which are not part of the ordinary budgets at the level of subsectors shall be identified and presented, together with other relevant information, in the context of the annual budgetary procedure. budgetary planning shall be based on the most likely macro-budgetary scenario or a more prudent scenario. in order to support member states in drawing up their budget forecasts, the commission should provide estimates of eu expenditure, based on the level of expenditure planned under the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i agree that a key element in ensuring the use of realistic forecasts for the conduct of budgetary policies is transparency, which implies the publication not only of the official macroeconomic and budgetary forecast drawn up for budgetary planning purposes, but also of the relevant methodologies, assumptions and parameters which have served as the basis for drawing up these forecasts. given the interdependence between member states' budgets and the union budget, in order to support member states in drawing up their budgetary forecasts, the commission should provide eu expenditure forecasts, based on the level of planned expenditure under the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and social crisis has shown that the economic governance model in force in the union has not worked: the supervisory framework has proved to be very weak and the rules of the stability and growth pact have not been respected. i therefore agree with the package of measures presented by the european commission on economic governance, which should play a decisive role in preventing future crises and in strengthening european competitiveness and economic growth. i support the ford report on the requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks. i welcome the fact that the regulation is applicable to all eu member states, establishing the necessary legal framework for effective and timely enforcement of the rules, based on reliable and independent analysis. it should thus contribute to increased transparency in the decision-making process and to the accountability of policy-makers. i support the possibility of governments being able to update their medium-term budgetary framework to reflect their new political priorities, although i should clearly highlight the differences with the previous budgetary framework.
in writing. - the report supports the commission's position in general. however, special attention is paid to the need for autonomy of the national statistical and fiscal institutions. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that greater coordination at the level of the budgets of the member states, whether or not they are in the euro, is always preferable to the contrary, although i believe that more could have been done in this area. at the risk of repeating myself, i have to regret once again that the proposals made by the commission on 15 september 2010 did not receive the council's agreement until more than a year later.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states because it is part of a legislative package on economic governance whose measures are almost exclusively austerity and sanctions, which will have very negative consequences for the european economy and for european citizens. austerity alone will not solve the eurozone crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the introduction of a new tax on the sale of goods and services.
in writing. - if we really want to prevent future crises, if we want to create a cohesive and responsible economic union, if we want to pursue a perspective of prevention and correction, and if we want to bet on sustainable growth, then, for this package to be complete, it was essential to have this directive. in this directive we find a set of essential premises which, when implemented by national governments, will make the rules of budgetary policy more transparent, particularly in the publication of budgetary forecasts and performance. i believe that with all that we have achieved now, the union will be increasingly prepared to coordinate and prevent any problems, deficiencies or imbalances in a united way. finally, i would like to thank my colleague, vicky ford, for all her hard work and performance in the completion of this report.
in writing. − this report, by vicky ford, deals with a proposal for a directive on the requirements for budgetary frameworks in the member states of the european union. the proposal for a directive, which is part of a package of six legislative acts (six pack - five regulations and a directive) aimed at improving the eu's economic governance, was the subject of intensive negotiations between the council and the european parliament, which tabled more than 2000 amendment proposals, and was approved by the finance ministers of the eu member states, under the polish presidency of the council, on 16 september in wroclaw, poland. this directive must be applied faithfully and rigorously, as it will enable the european union to monitor and punish the member states. it cannot, as so often happens, have a purely cosmetic effect. it must be effective and oblige countries to provide appropriate statistical data which will enable a correct diagnosis of the financial situation of each member state. i welcome the adoption of this directive, which is a comprehensive and integrated solution to the crisis, introduces transparency criteria and sanctions for those who provide incorrect data and encourages budgetary accountability by setting minimum requirements for national budgets.
in writing. - we voted against this report, which concerns the proposal for a directive laying down the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the member states, as it constitutes one of the most serious attacks on their sovereignty, a situation which will be even more serious for those in the euro area who are considered to be in excessive deficit and who, in addition to the permanent surveillance by the european commission, may be subject to sanctions. it is a directive which is part of the legislative package on so-called economic governance, which consists of six legislative titles, and which is a real attack on social and labour rights, and is also part of the european union's crusade against national independence and sovereignty, as is clear from the final agreement between the three institutions - the european parliament, the council and the european commission. the postponement of this vote only served to confirm what had already been decided. the results of the vote are an unprecedented attack on the rights of national parliaments and the constitution of the portuguese republic, whose members are bound by the european union's increasingly neoliberal guidelines on their country's budgets.
in writing. − incorrect and unrealistic macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts can significantly undermine the effectiveness of budgetary planning and thus compromise the commitment to budgetary discipline, whereas transparency and discussion of forecasting methodologies can significantly improve the quality of these forecasts. transparency is a key element in ensuring the use of realistic forecasts in the conduct of fiscal policies, which implies the publication not only of the official macroeconomic and budgetary forecast that is prepared for budgetary planning purposes, but also of the methodologies, assumptions and relevant parameters that have served as the basis for the preparation of those forecasts. in order to facilitate the preparation of the forecasts used in budgetary planning and to clarify the differences between the commission's and the member states' forecasts, each member state should have the opportunity to discuss annually with the commission the assumptions underlying the preparation of the macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts.
in writing. - although i abstained on some of the reports in the so-called economic governance package, i regard this legislative package as a remarkable step forward in the integration of the budgetary and economic policies of the member states, with a view to strengthening budgetary discipline and reducing macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness asymmetries, which are conditions for the stability of the euro, economic recovery and the external competitiveness of the european economy. this legislative package corrects some of the main shortcomings in the architecture of the euro and monetary union that had been identified long ago. if this new regime had been introduced at the start of monetary union, it is very likely that the eu would have weathered the banking and then economic crisis of 2008 in a different way and could have been spared the current public debt crisis. if we cannot prevent the crisis, at least we can learn from it to prevent future crises. the adoption of this legislative package also sends a strong message of confidence to financial markets and economic operators in the guarantees of the stability of the euro. the adoption of this major reform is therefore welcome.
in writing. − the present draft opinion on the establishment of requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks was voted on as part of the legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area. i voted in favour of this report because it follows up, in essence, the rapporteur's concerns, particularly as regards the amendments which have been made to the following key points: 1) the general objective of the proposal must relate to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection and the fight against social exclusion; (2) rules should be established to ensure improvements in national budgetary frameworks in the context of the european semester for policy coordination; (3) the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should ensure not only that the financial planning of the member states is based on realistic forecasts, but also that due attention is paid to the sustainability of their social protection systems, including health and pension systems; (4) finally, the requirements for national budgetary frameworks should also be designed to encourage member states to achieve the eu's employment and growth objectives.
in writing. − economic governance, as the adoption of policy measures aimed at achieving certain practical results, can only meet its objectives if there is reliable data on the situation of the member states. in other words, the success or failure of member states' economic intervention becomes all the more random the less reliable the data available. thus, the need for transparency and reliability of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts by member states is a necessary condition for the success of economic governance measures. cooperation between the member states and the commission in this field, guided by the criterion of seeking data realism, is therefore necessary to facilitate effective policy action.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution adopting the june 2011 resolution of the united nations human rights council on human rights, sexual orientation and identity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union should take a leading role in promoting a respectful and open dialogue on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity among all un member states, in the context of the 19th session of the human rights council scheduled for spring 2012.
in writing. − the right to liberty and the principle of equality are concepts which have shaped western civilization and the rule of law. that is why these states guarantee in their universal declarations and constitutions that no one can be discriminated against on the basis of his or her sexual orientation. this was a fundamental advance in the fight against discrimination and against homophobia. but unfortunately we know that there are still many states which do not accept these principles and which practice true barbarism against men and women on the basis of their different sexual orientation. it is because i agree with the elimination of all forms of discrimination that i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - the proposal for a european parliament resolution on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity in the united nations human rights council was tabled by members from all political groups, following a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure; the defence of human rights has been one of the eu's main flags throughout its existence. despite having signed the charter of fundamental rights, there are member states where these principles are violated by a question of sexual orientation and gender identity. at a time when the united nations and other international institutions are recognising sexual orientation and gender identity as a specific human right, i welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution which, by defending human values and the principle of freedom, will certainly help to reduce the criminalization and discrimination of homosexuals.
in writing. - in 1947, the un established the principle of two states for the territory of former palestine. the state of israel was established and recognized as a member of the un. the palestinian people have waited for 64 years for the realization of their legitimate and inalienable right to an independent state. a principle reaffirmed by several united nations resolutions over the years. the request made to the un general assembly by the president of the palestinian national authority for the recognition of the sovereign and viable state of palestine in the pre-1967 borders, including east jerusalem, as a full member of the united nations, follows logically from all these resolutions and from the principles of the un charter. however, the reality in the territory is that of the consolidation and advance of the israeli occupation, supported by successive us administrations, with the connivance of the eu. subjecting the palestinian people to the most varied forms of violence and oppression. at a time when justice, clarity and unconditional support for the inalienable right of the palestinian people were being called for, this resolution is ambiguous, giving cover to the continuation of the imposition of conditionality which favours the maintenance of the situation which has existed for decades. that is why we did not vote in favour of it.
in writing. − human rights are indeed indivisible, but what is happening is that the european union (eu) is not living up to this precept, because, while making positive steps on rights based on gender and sexual orientation, it is engaged in a process of accelerated denial and even destruction of social rights (which are human rights), as well as economic and political rights. these attacks affect everyone, including the social groups most mentioned in this resolution. at the same time, several eu countries and the eu itself are engaged in acts of interference and aggression, as in the case of libya, or in condoning crimes, as in the case of israeli crimes against the palestinian people, or in the past, in engaging in acts of gross disregard for human rights, such as cia flights and secret detentions, which call into question the principles set out in this resolution. in other words, the european union lacks the credibility to speak of universal and indivisible human rights. so, while we have voted in favour of this resolution, we reject the use of the name of human rights to carry out manoeuvres of interference and even aggression, present or future, which are themselves gross violations of human rights and of international law itself.
in writing. − the right to liberty and the principle of equality are fundamental to the eu's code of values. that is why all member states reject discrimination of any kind, especially discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. but unfortunately we know that there are still many states which do not follow these principles and that consequently many men and women continue to be victims of discrimination worldwide on the basis of their sexual orientation. we must continue to work to prevent such discrimination from persisting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the constructive participation of member states, in partnership with third countries, in the universal periodic review and in the procedures of the treaty bodies to ensure respect for human rights in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity in the european union and third countries.
in writing. − the defence and guarantee of human rights are not only an integral part of the european cultural tradition, but also the starting point of the community's legislative structure. in this sense, the european union is committed, in all the fora in which it participates, to defending a political orientation based on and centred on the protection of human beings. that being the scope of this resolution, which focuses in particular on sexual orientation and gender identity, i voted in favour.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having here should not have even existed. the most elementary common sense and a sense of solidarity should have solved the problem we are discussing here today. in the european area, which we consider to be the epitome of prosperity, freedom and justice, there are today, according to the european union's own estimates, more than 40 million people at risk of food poverty, that is, without access to a full meal every two days. in 2009, 440,000 tonnes of food were distributed to some 18 million people. no one doubts that the situation will be even worse in 2012. the worsening economic and financial crisis has thrown many people and families into unemployment, while social policies have been drastically curtailed. it is therefore incomprehensible and unacceptable that six member states have blocked the legal way out so that food aid funding could be maintained in 2012 at the level of previous years. i also welcome the commission's gesture, in the person of the commissioner, who has endeavoured to find the appropriate legal solution to the question raised by the european court. the council's attitude reveals a shocking social insensitivity which runs counter to all the values on which the european construction is based. i therefore strongly condemn the recent position of the council of agriculture ministers and call on the polish presidency and the heads of state and government to resolve this problem once and for all at their next meeting and to dismiss their agriculture ministers, restoring the image of solidarity and justice which is the mark of europe and which some ministers seem, unfortunately, to have forgotten.
mr president, we have already stressed here on several occasions the importance of maintaining a free food aid scheme for some 18 million people, as was the case in 2009. and, knowing that more than 43 million people are in extreme poverty and at risk of food poverty, including 20 million children, who also here in europe sometimes look for food in the garbage can that they do not have at home, it cannot be accepted that this programme is reduced from 500 million to only 113 million euros in 2012 and 2013. while poverty requires other measures of substance than austerity policies, which are only aggravating poverty and social exclusion, it is essential to take account of the european parliament's resolution of 4 july, including the promotion of an agreement on guaranteed minimum incomes based on 60% of the national average income of each member state. it is time for the commission to make a proposal on this subject here too.
twenty years later, we see that progress has been made, but we also know that there is still a long way to go to achieve the objectives set then. 1.4 billion people still live in poverty, and the main victims are women. there are 80 million people in europe at risk of poverty, so this resolution is important. the next summit should be used by the international community to address the challenges related to the three pillars of sustainable development. the commission and the council must take an ambitious and united stance in the negotiations with a view to achieving a strong political commitment to tackle the multiple challenges of poverty eradication, health, food, employment, gender equality and energy supply. the summit should also promote the transition to a green economy, promote renewable energy, energy efficiency, but also measures to ensure universal access to energy. the summit should renew commitments to promote access to clean water and healthy food, the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity, the efficient use of resources, sustainable forest management and the fight against deforestation. it is an important and urgent agenda to defend the planet and to give people answers and improve their quality of life.
despite progress over the two decades since the rio summit, many of the commitments made in terms of sustainable development have not yet been fulfilled. rio+20 is an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the transition to a green economy. this transition requires a radical transformation of the energy sector, including the promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency. renewable energy and energy efficiency have the potential to mitigate climate change, contribute to social and economic development and improve security of supply. in this context, i would stress the importance of innovation and science and the need for scientific and technological cooperation and technology transfer to developing countries and the promotion of sustainable development. on the other hand, it is essential to support education and training programmes, particularly for young people in all countries. the promotion of new skills will help to create new jobs and reduce social injustices.
the earth summit held 20 years ago focused the attention, concerns and hopes of many millions of people around the world. twenty years later, between ups and downs, worries have grown. the environment does not exist separately from everything else: society and the economy. our biggest environmental problem today is the existence of a world-dominant economic and social system, which, in marx's words, either grows and accumulates, or dies. a system that is constantly confronted with the limits of a land that, being generous, is finite and whose balances and vital processes depend on sometimes very delicate balances. there's no point in trying to paint capitalism green. it's its inherent unsustainability that is going to be discussed in rio next year. it is the current trade, agricultural, energy, industrial, economic and financial policies that must be discussed and questioned.
the title of this debate, european union aid to refugees in tunisia, could even be misleading to those who are not familiar with the reality we are talking about. i am grateful to the commissioner for presenting here the figures for the aid that has been possible to provide, but let me, as the rapporteur of this parliament for refugees, express my indignation, and i know that the commissioner will join me in that indignation, knowing that not even people dying at the gates of europe have led the council to end a codecision that we approved in this parliament two years ago. nor people dying at the gates of europe! and at this point i would like to address the council but i cannot because the council has not even come to this debate. it is extraordinary that among the pledges of the member states we have for the resettlement of refugees, europe will be able to resettle perhaps 600 refugees, the united states resettles more than twice that number, canada and australia resettle almost as many. now canada and australia do not share, as we do, the same region, the same neighborhood and the same destiny with these countries. and i'll end by saying just this: i understand that the commissioner is trying to be diplomatic by saying that codecision is blocked. co-decision is not blocked by shared blame. parliament, when there was the problem of delegated acts, the commission and the council did not want delegated acts, they presented us with a proposal in 15 days - two weeks - we had a counterproposal without delegated acts. we have been waiting for four months for a reply from the council and also from the commission. parliament has done its job and will be at your side to solve this problem, but the fault lies in fact with those empty seats on the council side and i would like the commissioner to start being fairer in this assessment.
the shameful situation in the refugee camps in tunisia has already been mentioned here, and we all share and i share a great deal of what has been said by my colleagues who have just spoken. i will not go into that in particular, but i will refer to another situation which is more neglected, namely that of citizens who have been taken in by families in tunisia. this is one of those situations that should make us even more ashamed because we notice: the european union is not in a position to show solidarity, and it is not in a process of transition to democracy, and it is not in a position to show solidarity, it is not in a position to receive. i think it is indeed shameful that we can count the number of refugees that have been taken in europe as a few hundred. many of these people, contrary to what has been said, no, they cannot return to their homes. and there were children who were enrolled in public schools, which has implications for infrastructure, has implications for what is the reception in these countries. and that is why, commissioner, i am very sensitive to your appeal and i am not saying this ironically, i am saying this seriously, but please, what about the commission? what about europe? what can you do? how does europe live so well with this double standard? we are so quick to repatriate and so slow to help, commissioner. it can't go on like this.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. the first is whether this fund, in the context of an ongoing economic and financial crisis and the very likely recession worldwide, should be extended until the end of 2013 or not. and my answer is, it should be prolonged. it must be prolonged because it does not in fact avoid the evils of globalised capitalism or the economic and financial crisis, but it does at least have the virtue of supporting its first victims, those who are victims of collective redundancies. and this is no small matter in a europe which looks much more at capital than it does at work. it's exactly because this is a redistributive fund that it's so important. it's because it offers a possibility to those who have far fewer opportunities. our conservative colleague thinks that we are instead supporting those who are not successful. because it's exactly because we're supporting those who don't succeed and giving them a second chance that this fund justifies its existence. but it is true that it must be changed. he should be retired. and from that point of view, i want to support the resolution adopted in the committee on employment because it reaffirms all the points that had already been adopted by this house a year ago and puts forward an extraordinarily important new one: the commission's proposal is that the funding of this fund should be in line with the co-financing rate of the structural funds. and this point had not been achieved. this fund cannot support redundancies in rich countries any more than it can support redundancies in countries which are suffering the most from recession and austerity policies.
mr president, the crisis in the european union has had serious consequences in all the member states and thousands of workers are affected by the redundancies caused by globalisation and the crisis. we cannot but express our solidarity with these workers who have lost their jobs and say that europe must help the member states to maintain an employment rate and to combat unemployment. a rapid reintegration of workers into the labour market is a priority objective. an example of the usefulness of this fund is my country, portugal, which has used it four times - although we are aware that access to this fund could be improved, especially in the countries most affected by the crisis. the existence of this globalisation adjustment fund has helped thousands of workers through vocational training measures, aid for the creation of new businesses and recruitment incentives. this proposal is positive because it will allow member states to call on this fund to support workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic and financial crisis. we support the extension of the deadline and believe that the member states most affected by the crisis should have greater and easier access to this fund to support globalisation and the crisis.
there are three questions which need to be clarified in this debate about the existence of this fund. the egf is only a palliative to the worsening unemployment caused by the european union's structural policies, which are undermining its industrial sector and making life easier for multinationals, which do not take any social responsibility. secondly, the egf uses funding criteria which are deeply unfair and lead to situations such as those we have had in this week's plenary session, where we approved egf mobilisations for a similar number of workers, allocating some eur 4.4 million to germany, some eur 3.8 million to denmark and only eur 1.4 million to portugal, which is the worst-off country. finally, the high co-financing rate required of the member states, of 35% of the overall amount provided for. to alleviate this situation, we hope that our proposal to reduce the share of state co-financing to only 5%, especially for countries with weak financial conditions such as portugal, will be accepted.
mr president, i must confess that i am very saddened by this debate. because it is an example of a parliamentary debate which, when it gets lost in technical issues, in details, loses sight of the world as a whole. we have just witnessed an extraordinary act of demagogy on the part of mr simpson: there is no greater civil liberty than the ability to travel safely. mr simpson, there are many civil liberties, and it is not for the transport committee alone to decide which civil liberties count and which are greater than others. i also think that on the libe commission side, there are concerns here about privacy and health issues that should not be the last answers to the question of body scanners, because ultimately, even when they answer the privacy questions, we will have another question: these body scanners are expensive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so in the near future. what i mean by this is that there is no cost-benefit analysis in this discussion that tells us (not the transport committee nor the libe committee): are the people of europe asking for this? no, the people of europe are asking for jobs, they are asking for education, they are asking for health. you're not asking for millions to be spent on body scanners. and we forgot about that. we forget about that cost-benefit analysis and we forget about that part of the real-world debate, and that's why this debate is making me sad. (the speaker accepts a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8))
i can't find any examples. however, i could find more examples and better examples of public investment in engineering technology for things as necessary as, for example, in the case of civil protection services in europe, the development of machinery to identify people under rubble following earthquakes, for example. i remember when there was the detroit attack, which was the attack that started this whole body-scanner debate, at the same time we had the earthquake in haiti. hundreds of thousands of people were under the rubble. we didn't have machines to identify them. however, we had the lobbyists of the scanner industry knocking on the door of meps every day to tell us: our scanner responds very well to your privacy concerns, but it costs 150,000 euros a piece, and we are going to fill every airport in europe with them. are there not useful things that european engineering and industry could be doing with more social gain?
in writing. - i support this report because of the importance of updating an instrument such as the egf, which is crucial in defending the weakest at this particular moment.
in writing. − the large mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund demonstrates the way in which european businesses and workers have been affected by globalisation and the current economic and financial crisis. from the time of its creation, elements were detected that affected its responsiveness and that need improvement. the commission proposal seeks to address these shortcomings and to establish a more lasting framework for this type of support. i hope that the proposed amendments will achieve their intended purpose and enable the egf to be mobilised more quickly and more effectively by those who really need it in all the member states.
in writing. − this report, by pervenche berès, is concerned with a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade, with a view to extending the exceptional period of this fund until 30 december 2013. in 2008, the eu, seeing a significant increase in the number of businesses closing and the resulting increase in thousands of unemployed, decided to temporarily amend the egf regulation, reducing the number of unemployed from 1000 to 500, extending the implementation period from 12 to 24 months, covering workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis and increasing the co-financing rate from 50% to 65%. the exceptional period - which started on 1 may 2009 - ends on 30 december 2011, as in 2008 it was expected that by this date the crisis would have been over. i welcome the adoption of this proposal extending the temporary derogation period, as unfortunately the prospect of an end to the economic and financial crisis remains a mirage.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report, which accepts the extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). we cannot, however, fail to raise some questions of principle with regard to this instrument. the egf is not the necessary answer to the problems of restructuring companies, nor are its financing criteria fair, as we have been denouncing. the egf is mainly a buffer against the negative structural policies of the european union, without going to the bottom of the problem, but mitigating the effects of some unemployment. moreover, in the context of the deepening economic and financial crisis, which requires member states to apply austerity measures, there is a growing increase in unemployment, also due to the increase in bankruptcies in the industrial sector, and the high co-financing rate required of member states, of 35% of the overall amount provided, limits access to such financing. we have therefore proposed that the co-financing rate be reduced to 5%, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal. unfortunately, this proposal was not adopted. we again insist that, in addition to the palliative effect of the egf, measures should be taken to prevent unemployment and encourage job creation.
in writing. - despite our positive vote on this report accepting the extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) at this stage, we cannot help but raise some questions about the egf, as it is not the necessary answer to the problems of business restructuring and its funding criteria are not fair, as we have been denouncing. the egf is mainly a buffer against the negative structural policies of the european union, without going to the bottom of the problem, but mitigating the effects of some unemployment. moreover, in the context of the deepening economic and financial crisis, which requires member states to apply austerity measures, there is a growing increase in unemployment, also due to the increase in bankruptcies in the industrial sector, and the high co-financing rate required of member states, of 35% of the overall amount provided, limits access to such financing. we have therefore proposed that the co-financing rate be reduced to 5%, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal. unfortunately, this proposal was not adopted. we must not forget that the european parliament has always been a major player in the development of the community's economy.
in writing. − the way in which member states have applied to use the european globalisation adjustment fund has demonstrated the importance of this instrument in tackling the problems resulting from the economic and financial crisis. however, this instrument has some shortcomings which we hope will now be addressed by the adoption of this amendment to this regulation, so as to make its use more rapid and effective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund provides additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. the european parliament has endorsed its use in all procedures, voting on a report containing a thorough study of the situation which led to the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the globalisation adjustment fund to support workers who have been subject to collective redundancies as a result of the relocation of their companies due to global competition. this scope was extended by regulation (ec) no 546/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 18 june 2009, introducing an exception for redundancies resulting from the economic and financial crisis and an increase in the co-financing rate of the fund. that derogation expired on 30 december 2011. however, given that the causes of the crisis have not yet been addressed, i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation to extend its application until 31 december 2013.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up in 2006 to support and show solidarity with workers who have been made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the egf aims to facilitate the reintegration into employment of workers in areas, sectors and territories affected by economic disruption by co-financing active labour market measures. in view of the scale of the economic and financial crisis and the speed with which it has spread, the commission envisaged a revision of the egf regulation in the european economic recovery plan. in this context, a temporary derogation was created to extend the scope of the egf to cover workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic and financial crisis and to increase the level of egf co-financing from 50 to 65% for the period ending on 30 december 2011. with a sharp increase in the number of requests for assistance, the expected continuation of the effects of the crisis in the closure of businesses and the need for budgetary consolidation in the member states, the extension of the temporary derogation, for which i voted in favour in the european parliament's plenary session, is justified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider the request for recognition of palestine as a state and for membership of the un to be legitimate and relevant. negotiations leading to a 'two-state' solution between israelis and palestinians must be resumed without delay, the right of the palestinians to self-determination and to have their own state is unquestionable, as is the right of israel to exist within secure borders.
in writing. the israeli-palestinian conflict has recently developed following the proposal by the president of the palestinian authority to recognise the independence of the palestinian state and to apply for membership of the united nations. the length of this issue and its complexity recommend that no easy-seeming solutions be sought. given the differences in the sensitivities of the member states of the union on this issue, a serious collective effort is required to reach a common position.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution, which follows a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, pursuant to rule 110 (2), on the political situation in palestine. over the past few months, a number of motions for resolutions and resolutions have been adopted in various international bodies on the political situation in the middle east, particularly with regard to the right of palestine to be recognized as a sovereign state. the eu, as a community friendly to both parties (israel and palestine) and highly respected in the region, is in a privileged position to help in this process and to contribute to bringing the parties back to the negotiating table with a view to an agreement on the borders so that people can continue to live where they have always lived. as the eu has been reiterating its support for a two-state solution, with the state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable state of palestine, i am voting in favour of this resolution and i hope that peace will come quickly to the middle east and that we can have a democratic palestine based on values.
in writing. − the palestinian people have been waiting for decades for the realisation of their legitimate and inalienable right to an independent, sovereign and viable state within the pre-1967 borders, including east jerusalem, and to full membership of the united nations. since 1947 the united nations general assembly has established the principle of the existence of two states - palestine and israel. a principle reaffirmed by various deliberations of the united nations bodies over more than six decades. but while the determination is clear in the light of the principles of the united nations charter, the reality on the ground is quite different. over the past decades, israel's political, economic and military intervention, supported by successive administrations of the united states of america, with the connivance of the eu, has sought to render its existence unviable and impede its existence, subjecting the palestinian people to the most diverse forms of violence and oppression, which continue to this day. the resolution calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including the prisoners of conscience, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. so our vote could not be in favour.
in writing. - i consider it very important that negotiations between the palestinian authority and the state of israel should be resumed. i do not think it is right, however, for the palestinian authority to demand certain conditions in order to sit at the negotiating table. i think it is even less reasonable that the palestinian authority wants palestine to become a state governed by the rule of law, but at the same time does not recognise the state of israel as such. we still have a long way to go before the parties reach an understanding, but it seems to me that if everyone acts in good faith, sooner rather than later, a solution will be found to this difficult dossier.
in writing. - i support this european parliament resolution on the situation in palestine, which considers the request for recognition of palestine as a state and for membership of the un to be legitimate. i join the call to the eu member states to stand united on this issue and to call for direct negotiations leading to a two-state solution between israelis and palestinians to be resumed without delay.
in writing. − the rio+20 summit aims to (i) achieve a renewed political commitment to sustainable development, (ii) assess the progress made to date and the gaps still remaining in the implementation of the main summit conclusions on sustainable development, and (iii) respond to new emerging challenges. your aims are noble and i wish you every success in your work. but i note once again that a resolution on sustainable development makes comments on financial markets and calls for the introduction of new taxes which i do not think i can support in this context. the debate on the financial transaction tax will be held in committee the commission proposal was tabled yesterday and the same should be done with the regulation of financial markets.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution tabled following the questions for oral answer pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, deals with the forthcoming united nations conference on sustainable development, better known as the rio+20 summit, to be held in rio de janeiro next year from 2 to 4 june, and in particular with the main objectives which the european union intends to pursue at this meeting. twenty years ago, at the first environmental summit in rio de janeiro, the world was left with great hope for the future. however, two decades on and with the world economy showing enormous fragility, it is time to reflect on the exploitation of natural resources and the negative impacts that many of our ecosystems are suffering. we are all concerned about the health of the planet, and the biggest challenge we face is that of sustainable development. i welcome the adoption of this motion for a resolution, which is aimed at the eu's defence of a strong position in adopting measures to reduce the risk factors of natural disasters and to mitigate the effects of climate change.
in writing. − the objectives of the earth summits are to obtain political commitments on economic and social development compatible with natural balances and environmental preservation. this resolution, although not without its contradictions, which always end up in resolutions of this kind, as a result of the composition of this parliament and the commitments that follow from it, contains several positive aspects: it departs from the commission's communication; clarifying the concept of a green economy, recognises that it will not automatically bring prosperity to the poor or achieve the mdgs; draws attention to the disparities and inequalities at global and national level, which are the result of the current economic model; refuses to commercialise natural systems; calls for increased support for developing countries, stressing the importance of oda; considers water to be a public good and calls for the universal guarantee of the right to water and sanitation; welcomes the fact that the european union is a major player in the world economy and that it is the main actor in the world economy; draws attention to the need to ensure food sovereignty of developing countries, investment in small-scale agriculture and access to seeds; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - as is well known, the objectives of the earth summits are to obtain political commitments on economic and social development compatible with natural balances and environmental preservation. this resolution, although not without its contradictions, which always end up in resolutions of this kind, as a result of the composition of the ep and the commitments that follow from it, contains several positive aspects, in particular: takes a step back from the commission communication, clarifying the concept of a green economy and recognising that it will not automatically bring prosperity to the poor or achieve the mdgs; draws attention to the disparities and inequalities at global and national level due to the current economic model and rejects the commodification of natural systems; calls for more support for developing countries and considers water to be a public good; welcomes the fact that the european union is a major player in the world economy and that it is the main actor in the world economy; draws attention to the need to ensure food sovereignty of developing countries, investment in small-scale agriculture and access to seeds; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. − the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20) set out several objectives, of which i would highlight: achieving renewed political commitment to sustainable development, assessing progress to date and remaining gaps in the implementation of the conclusions of the major summits on sustainable development, and responding to new emerging challenges. its objectives are ambitious and i look forward to their achievement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and i join the call for the rio+20 summit to strengthen the commitment of key stakeholders, including the private sector. in fact, business and civil society, and in particular ngos, social movements and indigenous communities, have a prominent role to play in these matters.
in writing. − the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio +20), to be held in 2012 in rio de janeiro, will naturally be a privileged forum for the debate on environmental, economic and social sustainability in a globalised world. in this context, the eu should take a position of dialogue and commitment to the well-being of future generations, seeking to strengthen ties with other relevant actors (not only states, but also ngos and international public law organisations) in the search for solutions that can contribute in practice to sustainable development. i have seen these concerns reflected in the resolution presented, and i have therefore voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i support this resolution because i believe that the egf must continue to adapt to the needs of the present moment, taking into account its relevant social role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of a renewed egf to provide effective support for the training and retraining of workers with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. this instrument could make an important contribution to strengthening solidarity in the eu, as all member states would benefit from its rapid, targeted and tailor-made intervention to prevent long-term unemployment.
in writing. the serious economic and financial situation in the european union has been reflected in large-scale redundancies, which are threatening the personal and family stability of many workers. the european union has sought to help respond to this serious problem by extending the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis, which is still being felt. its perennial nature justifies the continuation of this extension and the adaptation of the methods of mobilising the fund to the reality of the workers and regions concerned. i hope that the proposed amendments will be in the right direction in helping those who need it most and in reacting promptly to situations of deprivation affecting them. i hope that the european economy will recover sooner rather than later and that the need for recourse to the fund will be reduced considerably. in the meantime, it should be swift and able to help alleviate the social problems resulting from redundancies and promote the reintegration of workers into the labour market.
in writing. − in 2006, the european union adopted regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) - to support workers made redundant as a result of significant structural changes in world trade which entered into force in january 2007, benefiting tens of thousands of workers in almost all member states. globalization is putting people's lives at risk because it moves work to another place where labor is cheaper. we must not forget that in the eu there are 23 million unemployed and 123 million people living in difficulty. it is therefore imperative that the egf transitions to the new multiannual financial framework (mff) and, if possible, that the funds are increased. it would also be important to extend this to young people, agricultural workers and the selfemployed. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, which i voted in favour of, because i am aware that this fund will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, enabling the eu to emerge stronger and more cohesive from the economic and financial crisis in which it finds itself and with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - the resolution is negatively marked by a vision of strategy 2020 that we do not share. we have also denounced the fact that the egf is a mere palliative in the face of worsening unemployment, which is the result of the european union's structural policies, which are putting its industrial sector in jeopardy and making life easier for multinationals which do not take any social responsibility. in addition, the egf uses funding criteria which are profoundly unfair and lead to situations such as those we have had in this plenary session, where we approved egf mobilisations for an approximately identical number of workers, allocating some eur 4.4 million to germany, some eur 3.9 million to denmark and only eur 1.4 million to portugal, which is the worst-off country. but there is also a positive aspect to the resolution: the proposal to change the high co-financing rate required of the member states, which is 35% of the overall amount provided for. to alleviate this situation, let us hope that the european commission will take account of the need to change national co-financing, aiming at a convergence of our proposal for a reduction to only 5%, especially for countries in fragile financial conditions, such as portugal. that is why we voted in favour of it.
in writing. − we voted in favour of this resolution, although we disagree with some points, notably its vision of strategy 2020. on the other hand, we know that the egf is only a palliative in the face of worsening unemployment caused by the european union's structural policies which are putting its industrial sector in jeopardy and making life easier for multinationals, which do not take any social responsibility. in addition, the egf uses funding criteria which are profoundly unfair and lead to situations such as those we have had in this plenary session, where we approved egf mobilisations for a similar number of workers, allocating some eur 4.4 million to germany, some eur 3.9 million to denmark and only eur 1.4 million to portugal, which is the worst-off country. we stress the positive aspect of the resolution which seeks to amend the high co-financing rate required of the member states, which is 35% of the overall amount provided for. to alleviate this situation, let us hope that the european commission will take account of the need to change national co-financing, aiming at a convergence of our proposal for a reduction to only 5%, especially for countries in fragile financial conditions, such as portugal.
in writing. − the egf was set up to demonstrate eu solidarity with workers affected by collective redundancies as a result of globalisation and was extended in 2009 under the recovery plan to cover redundancies also caused by the financial and economic crisis. the way in which member states have applied to use the european globalisation adjustment fund has demonstrated the importance of this instrument in tackling the problems caused by the economic and financial crisis. however, this instrument has some shortcomings which we hope will now be addressed by the adoption of this amendment to this regulation, so as to make its use more rapid and effective. it makes perfect sense, therefore, to maintain this instrument so that we can continue to support workers who are still suffering the consequences of the ongoing crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with its content, in particular that the egf should continue to finance only active labour market measures which supplement measures adopted under national legislation in the event of collective redundancies, and with the proposal that in future the grants to which the egf contributes financially should always be accompanied by vocational training or retraining measures also financed by the egf and not replace grants granted following the application of national or union legislation or collective agreements.
in writing. - as the european globalisation adjustment fund is about to celebrate its fifth anniversary, it is important to draw lessons from the intervening period to shape the future of this instrument. the committee stresses the relevance of its objectives, which are to deal with the situation of workers who have been made redundant in the short term and to seek their reintegration into the labour market as soon as possible. it is a goal which still has all its sharpness, and to that extent i understand that it must continue to be pursued. however, effective operation of the fund would require the award procedure to be shortened in the adjective sense and linked to community policy as a whole in the substantive sense. it will therefore be important, for example, to reconcile this support instrument with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, seeking, in this process of reintegration of workers, to encourage the development of innovation activities that can contribute to the creation of jobs and wealth.
in writing. - i vote against this report, although it is important to ensure that the eu financial contribution is also used for the benefit of the people of western sahara.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the request for an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and morocco. i believe that negotiations should continue to improve the existing agreement, since the kingdom of morocco has been working with the european commission to demonstrate that this agreement, which involves economic activities relating to the natural resources of the non-self-governing territory of western sahara, has been benefiting the local population. the political problem of the sarawak people, on which the ep should have already taken a decision, does not fall within the scope of this agreement.
in writing. - some members intend to use the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco as a pretext to refer the question of the legality of the moroccan presence in western sahara to the court of justice. despite the new powers conferred on it by the treaty of lisbon to bring about the judicial assessment of the validity of international treaties, i believe that agreements such as those on which the motion for a resolution is based should not be used to pursue objectives which clearly go beyond them and whose particular sensitivity should warrant further caution. the attempt to put the foreign policy of the european union and its member states in the hands of the courts is a dangerous path and one which should be avoided by all responsible policy-makers.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 90 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, focuses on an opinion requested from the court of justice on the compatibility of the treaties with the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and morocco. the eu has had trade relations with morocco for many years, notably in the euro-mediterranean area, and an eu-morocco summit was held on 7 march 2010. after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, no agreement can be signed without first being approved by the ep. given that this protocol extends its scope to the waters of western sahara, whose population, despite the retaliatory measures of the moroccan government, is demanding self-determination, the eu, as a community of values based on democracy and respect for human rights, cannot sign protocols that violate international law, such as this new protocol on the socioeconomic interests of the non-self-governing territory of western sahara and the exploitation of its natural resources. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of this request for an opinion from the european court of justice.
in writing. − the competent services of the european commission confirm that the agreement between the eu and the kingdom of morocco respects international law. as this is a fisheries agreement which benefits the community's fisheries sector and which is an important part of the trade relations between the eu and the kingdom of morocco, i voted against this resolution. in addition, the cessation of fishing activity will have serious social and economic consequences for the portuguese fleet, currently licensed, and also for the respective local communities, since there are currently no alternatives to fisheries with identical characteristics, either in terms of geographical proximity to the national territory or in terms of the type of gear authorised and the target species (demersal). i also believe that the process of renewing the agreement should proceed as quickly as possible.
mr president, mr president of the commission, what we have long said is inevitable: restructuring with a substantial cut in greek debt. the country is facing economic and social devastation as a result of the intervention of the imf, the ecb and the european commission. it is clear that the greek people can no longer sustain the process of distortion to which they have been subjected. it would be good if they could learn the lessons while they still have time and stop the similar processes already under way in other countries, such as portugal. with the same recipes, the results will inevitably be the same. once again, the franco-german directory decides. national and european governments and bureaucracies abide by the decisions. that's how you know who's in charge and who's in charge of this union. the recapitalisation of the banks, which they are now preparing, will be another gigantic operation to transfer the debt held by the banks to the public sector, that is to say, at the expense of the workers and peoples of europe. the answer is: the organized social struggle which is expanding and intensifying, as in portugal, with numerous protests, strikes and demonstrations, bringing together more and more sectors of society. here lies the possibility of a better future.
i would like to congratulate the polish presidency and commissioner olli rehn just to say that i believe that today, following and developing what was said in the state of the union address, a very, very big step has been taken towards solving the problems of the euro zone crisis. because the commission has here undertaken to use its power of initiative and to use it with the council to solve this crisis. i believe that this is an extremely important step and the only way we have at the moment to solve the eurozone crisis. it is not possible to solve it in the short term by an intergovernmental approach alone, and to do so it is necessary that the states, the governments of the states, give the commission the instruments and the mandate to lead this resolution process, to put into practice, implement and develop this roadmap which you have presented here. but i would like to say that this is not incompatible with our simultaneous development of our capacity to amend the treaties. i am also convinced that in the medium term the treaties must be amended, but we will have to do so in order to strengthen the commission, give it more power and a greater position. it is by strengthening the community method now in the short term and then by changing the treaties in the long term that we will achieve further integration and a solution for the 17 countries of the euro zone and for the 27 countries of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i commend the commission for coming up with an apparently positive dynamic, but as you all know, it depends on doing and not saying, and it depends on knowing the details of what they are going to do. and i refer in particular to a question which was also raised by my colleague, pervenche berès. when we negotiated the pact, the revision of the pact, we realised that the commission's proposal was more demanding than what we had before. we agreed, as you know, that part of parliament was against it, but we agreed that there was a set of fines. however, these fines were fines which, in the case of the socialist group, were considered excessive, but there was an agreement with the commission. how is it possible that, immediately after parliament, the council and the commission approved this balance for the six-pack, we saw the commission present a proposal to cut all the structural funds, in addition to the penalties provided for in the six-pack as a sanction for the countries which need to converge in order to comply because they have violated, probably without their will but inevitably, the conditions of the revised pact. thank you very much, but please answer this question.
dr. durão barroso came here today to announce, as one of the measures, that banks that do not have capital requirements must present plans to obtain them and, if they cannot present them, they must then suspend dividends and bonuses. i cannot but agree with this presentation made by the president. we have just seen what happened to dexia bank this week, and a few months ago a director of this bank was awarded a prize of 600 000 euros for his excellent management, as we know. but to be serious, mr president of the commission, you must call on governments to present the complete package, and the complete package is what counts. the essential thing is that taxpayers' money be matched by a policy of credit for growth. the essential thing is that banks start paying taxes on their profits, which is not the case in many countries, particularly in my country, portugal. in two years - or rather in three years - this is the second time that we have been asked to bail out the banks with taxpayers' money, with the unemployed. the banks that also save the economy, helping to create jobs.
if the banks are going to be saved because they are too big to fail, then will not our states, our euro, our union and our people be equally big enough for our heads of government and the commission to do what is necessary to save them? how, then, to understand the commission's recent indecent proposals to impose macroeconomic conditionality on the structural funds, penalising the peoples of the member states in the worst economic and financial conditions, and therefore those most in need of european solidarity? if banks are to be recapitalised at the expense of taxpayers, strong conditionality is needed, including a clear separation between commercial and investment banking and ensuring that banks do not continue to be instrumental in the web of corruption, tax evasion, tax fraud, money laundering, european and global organised crime that has been weakening our states, our union and robbing our citizens. without control of tax havens, without tax harmonization, economic governance will be a travesty.
in writing. another debate which failed to say what was essential: to change the policies and foundations of economic and monetary union to give priority to employment with rights, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, inequalities and social injustices. the european council in madrid has already made it clear that the european union is not prepared to accept the new economic and monetary union. we demand an end to the real pacts of aggression and extortion against the peoples who are victims of the intervention of the imf, the ecb and the european commission. we have seen the result in greece. it is good that we are moving forward before portugal and ireland are in the same situation. it is time to put an end to the impositions of the directory which, in the name of the interests of the european economic and financial groups, continues to impose disastrous policies on the people of the weakest economies and profound social injustice, as is the case with the proposal they are preparing on the recapitalisation of the banks, which will be another gigantic operation of transferring the debt held by the banks to the public sector, that is, at the expense of the workers and the peoples of europe.
mr president, commissioner malmström, mr secretary of state, firstly, all the assessments made by the council, by the member states, have proved that bulgaria and romania are in compliance with the rules and are ready to join; secondly, the european parliament, by an overwhelming majority last june, endorsed this view. but when we should be congratulating the two governments and welcoming the two states into the schengen area, the council refuses to take a positive decision because of the opposition of two member states. it is important that the council quickly overcome this situation so as not to increase the feeling of injustice and disappointment with europe on the part of the bulgarian and romanian citizens. for us, schengen is at the heart of the area of freedom, security and justice. we have created a preserved and strengthened free movement and therefore we need a new schengen evaluation system. mr president, at the very moment when we are talking about free movement and schengen, the president of the youth organization, who is a member of parliament in my country, brings to my attention what is happening in ukraine. the opposition youth chairman was beaten by the ukrainian police, as were other leaders, his homes raided and searched without a warrant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, madam high representative, there are times when i think we need to pause for a moment and take stock, and this seems to me to be one of those times. and i think it's because we're always going in the cadence of events and a response of event to event and we kind of lose what the perspective of the whole is. it is true that each case is a case, and that each country we are talking about here is a specific case, but forgive me, madam high representative, it seems to me that it is difficult to scrutinize what criteria the european union has used to act in each case. i am afraid that we are often held hostage to the interests of the countries of the european union by some of these countries of the european union and not by all of them. and that is why we have used so often in this house the expression two weights and two measures and continue to use it. sometimes it is sanctions, sometimes it is not, sometimes the interference is to the point of the bomb, as was the case in libya, and sometimes it is complete silence, as was the case in the case of the invasion of bahrain by the forces of saudi arabia. and let me tell you, baroness, that i have studied all the files carefully, and i have not yet seen a single statement from the european institutions condemning the invasion of bahrain by the military forces of saudi arabia. it's death sentences, it's endless violence, it's doctors and nurses who are sentenced to up to 30 years in prison by a military court because they were supposedly against the regime and not helping the wounded who needed them. we have had far more silence than action with regard to the dictatorial monarchy in bahrain and the dictatorial regime in yemen, the saleh regime. i am not in favour of interference - i never have been - but i fear that we are putting ourselves in an uncomfortable position, the outsider position, baroness, that instead of helping the development, the democratic and revolutionary aspirations of the people in the arab countries, instead of helping the arab spring, what we are doing is preventing it from spreading, either excessively or by default, and i don't think we should be left with that sin. i hope that the award of the nobel prize to a yemeni activist can serve as a sign that our side is the side of the people who are in revolution.
mr president, the greatest challenge to european foreign policy is not china or the united states, but what is happening on the other side of the mediterranean, in our arab neighbours. not because we fight the tyrannies in those countries, that's the people of their own countries, but because we have a stronger enemy to fight, our own past, our complicity, our collaboration with authoritarian regimes. in syria, where until recently we worked in a kind of openness with the regime, which is a police regime, and where we haven't done enough to help the refugees who are in syria and we're not doing enough now to pressure turkey to recognize refugees coming from syria to turkey, in egypt where we are falling again into the same trick of because there is a possibility of sectarian violence we fall into the arms of the military. it is important to look very closely at what happened because there may be a military regime's hand in the sectarian violence in egypt and across the arabian peninsula in bahrain and yemen because, frankly, mrs ashton, it takes a lot more than calling the ambassador from bahrain. the ambassador of bahrain had the gall to tell us in this house that the doctors who are being arrested were not arrested for treating protesters, but for being in the hospital after hours. you have to talk to saudi arabia, and it's a lot harder there. finally, in closing, one thing must be said: it was the arab spring that freed the soldier shalit, which mrs ashton welcomed, and it should have welcomed the liberation of barghouti and over a thousand palestinians as well, and the arab spring that is changing that part of the world is our biggest challenge right now.
mr president, the arab spring continues to flourish in the blood of all those who are falling from the bullets of the oppressive regimes of bahrain, yemen, syria and, i must say, the armed forces of egypt. however, as much as it flourishes in the brave men and women – like tawakul karman – who continue to rise up and fight against these oppressive regimes, it is our duty to understand this is not going to happen overnight. we have to support these people, show our solidarity and actively support them in many ways. we have to demand accountability; demand that our own governments do not continue to export weapons and other repressive instruments to these regimes and we have to find clever ways to mobilise and support the civil society that has been so brave. we must do everything we can to make sure that these people hear our cry of solidarity. that can be done in many ways so that, together with the liberation of gilad shalit, the arab spring will bring about the liberation of all those syrians, bahrainis, palestinians, egyptians and yemenis who are in jail. we cannot conceal the fact that the regime of saudi arabia has tremendous responsibility in what is happening both in bahrain and in yemen. we need to also demand this kind of accountability from our own governments as regards relations with saudi arabia.
the facts which have already been discussed here and which are being experienced in different countries in africa and also in the middle east are worrying. but i would like to draw particular attention to the european union's position, which is always ambiguous and always double-minded and double-demanding, because while in libya the european union's troops and bombs and other war material continue to kill civilians, in bahrain they remained silent when saudi arabia went with its troops to crush popular protests against the regime and continue to remain unresponsive when we see the condemnation of people who intervened in these demonstrations or even of medical personnel or simple doctors who treated the wounded. we cannot accept that this continues, and we cannot accept that because saudi arabia has oil or because the us fifth fleet is in bahrain, that the united states should make it its major strategic base, that this should serve the european union to keep silent, and therefore, madam vice-president, we ask you to change your position.
protesters who returned to tahrir square a few days ago to demand that the military junta governing egypt (which includes former officials of the hosni mubarak regime) transfer power, repeal the state of emergency, change the electoral law and fulfill promises to improve the living conditions of the population, were violently evicted by the regime's special forces. the repression of legitimate popular indignation is still one of the few things right in egypt. egyptian social and political forces have been warning that the situation in the country is worsening day by day since the referendum in which the military claims to have legitimized its rule. they denounce the restraint of liberty, the criminalization of demonstrations, the violence of the civil and military police, the trial of civilians in military courts and the reactionary militias, as well as the refusal of the government to raise the minimum wage and impose a maximum wage, while raising prices and insisting on selling cheap national resources such as gas. in this context, it is important that the eu reverse the attitude of complacency and complicity it has maintained for almost two decades with the mubarak regime, which is clearly evident in the partnerships and agreements signed, despite frequent denunciations by various organisations of the brutality of the regime.
a vast bank recapitalisation is currently under way and it comes just months after stress tests have passed the vast majority of european banks with distinction. one of them, dexia, was ranked as high as 12th and its chief executive received a prize, a bonus of 600,000 euros. it was all a lie! for the second time in three years, dexia bank is asking to be bailed out with european taxpayers' money. and we must be clear about how tolerant we have been with the financial system, and that is why i sincerely support the indignados who have demonstrated from new york to lisbon, from athens to madrid. they may not know much about financial markets, but they have one essential thing: a thirst for justice.
there are indeed episodes which deserve to be included in the catalogue of absurdities, and yesterday was one of them. a group of young people from various parts of europe are in brussels as part of the movement of the indignados, and meps from this house have invited us to meet them and discuss their ideas. what happened was that, at the request of the european parliament, the belgian riot police and the security forces of this parliament put up a highly disproportionate device to prevent these young people from entering this house. and all this security came into effect because only seven of you met the criteria to come in here and say what you were here for. i do not understand this measure, i must confess i am indignant, madam president. this parliament is the home of democracy, it should not be afraid of its citizens, and what was the threat? the threat of thinking differently than what is the dominant system of thought in this house? that is not a threat, it is the wealth of democracy and i hope that we will all be outraged - and very much so - on the next 15 days.
madam president, in this debate on the application of the principle of subsidiarity there is one point which cannot be ignored: the fact is that the whole dynamic of the integration process, the legal framework provided by the lisbon treaty, but also and above all what has been the current practice, completely subverts the principle of subsidiarity. they saw him upside down, authentically. the truth is that instead of the states deciding what the eu can do better, it is the eu deciding what the states can do better. they tell us now the states can object! that's right, and the practical consequences? the truth is that the vetting process offers few guarantees. the conditions imposed, and above all the increasingly federalist impulse in this process, make it difficult for decisions taken at eu level, even when breaking the principle, to be reversed. it is therefore important, first of all, to revert to the principle of subsidiarity and give it its proper meaning, that is, to let the people decide what can best be done for them at community level and not to let the union impose on the states what it thinks it can do best for them.
in writing. with the lisbon treaty, national and regional parliaments should be more actively involved in the european decision-making process, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as laid down in article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union. however, two years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it seems appropriate to ask the european commission about its assessment of the application of the principle of subsidiarity, in particular on the basis of the data it has on the participation of national and regional parliaments. it is essential that the commission has the resources to work in concert with national and regional parliaments and the committee of the regions to monitor effectively the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the commission has already put forward a number of legislative proposals for the control of the principle of subsidiarity which show its support for dialogue with national parliaments. however, it is also important that regional parliaments can participate effectively in the european decision-making process on the issues that concern them. i therefore call on the commission, together with the member states and in conjunction with the efforts of the committee of the regions, to contribute to improving the situation with regard to their participation.
madam president, the report we are discussing today is a good one, it presents a modern vision of vat and taxation and it has a set of proposals which should be an incentive for the initiative which the commission should and can present to this parliament. that is why the rapporteur, my colleague mr casa, whom i know well and am well aware of his concern about these matters, is very pleased to hear that when the report states that vat is a state revenue but also has effects on the functioning of the market and its agents, it also has very important effects on the functioning of the internal market and, for that very reason, it is relevant that there are, as the report says, less costs for users, less costs and less administrative burden, less bureaucracy, better fight against fraud and tax evasion. it is also important, as it says here, that the collection system be improved. but i would also like to stress here the need to look at the refund system, which often creates so many problems for small and mediumsized enterprises that pay vat and then take a long time to recover the vat that has been overpaid, at a time when the states are increasing their tax burdens. it is also important to have a system that is particularly attentive to the operation of small and mediumsized enterprises, as is the case in this report. they are the engine of our development and so are taxes, and even in times of difficulty they should serve as an incentive for their intervention. i would like to conclude by saying that parliament is committed to a better vat system and that this report is a demonstration of that.
madam president, commissioner, this is a good report by mr casa. first of all, we must ask why vat should be revised in the european union. first of all, it must be made compatible with the single market. the more vat schemes and varieties, the less fluid the market will be. vat reform favours e-commerce, focuses competition on the value and price base of goods and services rather than on tax differences, combats fraud and ensures much-needed confidence, especially in cross-border transactions, improves the economy of smes and reduces administrative burdens. what other ancillary measures are already in place in the single market that can be combined with vat? firstly, a simple, clear and transparent digital support mechanism, measure 7 of the single market. measure 5 on services, the need to review legislation on standardisation and the implementation of the services directive. measure 9 which aims to remove tax obstacles and to explicitly review the vat system and the equalization of vat in online and face-to-face commerce that we all feel when we order books. the pressures for vat reform have two basic reasons. first, the economic crisis. more revenue is needed, including probably in some countries the reduction of labour contributions to promote economic development by passing this burden on to vat. secondly, the second major source of pressures is population ageing, demographic ageing and the trend of shifting from indirect to direct taxes, which is due to the reduction of the population base of incidence. the balance between direct and indirect taxation must be reconsidered, and we must reconcile subsidiarity with harmonization in these reforms. the range of variation in the standard vat rate needs to be narrowed so that we can all understand each other better. more transparency is needed in the definition of the reduced rate of vat and its scope, a clear and widely disseminated list of reduced rates. it is necessary to study exemption thresholds for smes, knowing full well that each exemption entails a train of small or large frauds. finally, i welcome the commission's recent proposal to create a european vat.
madam president, allow me to begin by congratulating my colleagues, but in a very special way the rapporteur, david casa, on his excellent report, on the excellent work he has brought us here. it advocates simplification and harmonisation of the vat system in the european union, which will bring more transparency and efficiency and, at the same time, less bureaucracy and less fraud. in this way we can make the internal market work better and contribute to the much-needed competitiveness of the euro area and the european union. the fight against vat fraud is a priority. in fact, it is estimated that this fraud could reach, could be around 100 billion euros. vat represents more than 21% of the tax revenues of the member states, which proves that it is an important source of revenue for national budgets and in many of them the main source of financing. with clear and unambiguous rules we uphold the principle of neutrality and we have succeeded in reducing the administrative burden resulting from the european union's vat legislation. companies cannot bear the administrative costs of vat, especially smes. it should be noted that in the european union, they represent more than 99% of enterprises and about 67.4% of employment. in the case of portugal, smes actually create 81.4% of total employment. the countries receiving external aid need special attention and concrete solidarity, particularly in tax matters. these member states were obliged to increase taxes and are now asked to consider vat exemption thresholds and to draw up lists of common goods and services eligible for tax exemptions or reduced rates. that is why i call for special solidarity and a concrete look.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the reality, madam president, is that the persistence in the same so-called austerity policies, always accompanied by greater liberal pressures, new privatizations and the insistence on irrational criteria of the strengthened sgp, is failing. it should already be clear that without changing the policies and foundations of economic and monetary union, it is not possible to give priority to employment with rights, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, inequalities and social injustices. we therefore insist on the urgent need for an employment and social progress pact and the definitive abolition of the current sgp. it is time to put an end to the programmes of genuine aggression against the workers and peoples imposed by the imf, the ecb and the european commission in greece, portugal and ireland. as workers and peoples in struggle in several member states are demanding, it is time to break with these policies of monopoly capitalism which are aggravating the economic situation and causing profound social injustices in most of our countries. and all this while at the same time preparing to give many billions of euros to the banks, transferring their debt to the public sector, that is to say to young workers and women in precarious or unemployed situations, to pensioners without decent living conditions, to small and mediumsized enterprises which can no longer bear the financial strain and the sudden breakdown of the purchasing power of the population. the fundamental question in this debate, therefore, rather than concern about what is happening in the united states of america in this field, is what the leaders of the european union, the commission and the council will finally propose to reverse the serious situation of unemployment, precarious and low-paid work and poverty and social exclusion that exists in many countries of the european union and that tends to worsen exponentially in some if the same policies are persisted in. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
yes, madam president, i have been. i am of course in full agreement with you on this criticism of the european commission. i think it was not right what the commissioner did, to speak and then leave the chamber and not want to hear our arguments on this problem. i regret this and hope that the presidency will convey our displeasure to the european commission.
in writing. - i welcome this agreement as it allows all carriers in the european union to benefit from the right of establishment, thus avoiding discrimination on grounds of nationality between air carriers in the member states. the new agreement will give priority to eu competition rules over existing provisions in bilateral agreements.
in writing. − the court of justice of the european union has held that traditional designation clauses in bilateral air service agreements concluded by member states infringe union law in so far as they allow a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend licences or authorisations granted to air carriers designated by a member state but whose capital is not substantially owned by that member state or by nationals of that member state and whose effective control is not exercised by them. those clauses constituted a manifest discrimination in breach of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states exercising their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state. this new agreement negotiated by the commission, in addition to correcting a discriminatory situation, obviously brings advantages in that it replaces provisions of 8 of the current bilateral agreements with a horizontal agreement which restores a sound legal basis for relations between the eu and the republic of cape verde.
in writing. − this agreement with the republic of cape verde represents a small step on the difficult path of the process of european construction which the eu and the member states have been continuously following over the last decades. in this case, and in the field of aviation, a further step is taken towards the full implementation of the common market, adding that in this case we are talking about its external aspect. i would stress both of these aspects and i am also pleased that this specific agreement has been concluded with cape verde, an african country with an official portuguese language, which as a portuguese mep is an additional factor of satisfaction.
in writing. − the eu-cape verde agreement on certain aspects of air services ('the agreement') replaces eight bilateral agreements of the same type and harmonises the common rules for air services across the union. the agreement will allow all european union carriers to benefit from the right of establishment and ensure that there is no discrimination against air carriers of member states on grounds of nationality. the agreement also lays down rules on fuel taxation and competition.
in writing. - the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on certain aspects of air services. eight eu countries (portugal, belgium, germany, italy, the netherlands, romania, spain and the united kingdom) had bilateral agreements with cape verde, which is contrary to the spirit of the eu with regard to the standardisation of procedures, as ruled by the court of justice of the european communities. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations and the agreement was signed on 23 march 2011. on 17 may 2011, the council decided to submit the agreement to the european parliament for approval. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde as it will allow european air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the member states and this african country, as well as clarifying the rules on the taxation of aviation fuel and competition.
in writing. - the proposal to conclude an agreement on certain aspects of air services between the eu and cape verde raises doubts and concerns as to the consequences that may result from this, given the current framework of liberalization and, consequently, of monopolistic concentration in the sector. the direct consequence of sacrosanct free competition is that member states are less able to defend their flag carriers. the path of market opening has obvious impacts on national airlines, in a sector which is strategic for safeguarding national interests. moreover, the agreement aims to replace, by a single union agreement, certain provisions on competition in bilateral agreements concluded by certain member states, including portugal, thus harmonising the set of requirements and competitive permissions which allow carriers to establish themselves in the territory of cape verde. it thus overrides the specificities of the bilateral agreements of each member state in this field. as in the previous cases of brazil, the usa, canada and the west african states, we did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the conclusion of an agreement on certain aspects of air services between the eu and cape verde raises doubts as to the consequences that may result, both in terms of the monopolistic concentration in this sector, combined with the ongoing liberalization process, and in the reduction of the capacity of member states to defend their flag carriers, a direct consequence of free competition. as this is a strategic sector for safeguarding national interests, the market opening path has obvious impacts on national airlines. the agreement also aims to replace the existing agreements with a single union agreement, in particular certain provisions on competition in bilateral agreements concluded by member states, including portugal. the aim is to harmonise the set of requirements and competitive permits which enable carriers to establish themselves in the territory of cape verde, overcoming the specificities of the bilateral agreements of each member state in this respect. that is why we did not vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the eu/cape verde air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as on the work of all the bodies concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's aviation industry. the present agreement is therefore an important step towards opening the market to eu and cape verdean airlines without any discrimination. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i consider that by granting all european air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu and cape verde, it adversely affects national interests, damaging the privileged relations between portugal and cape verde, centuries-old relations of closeness and friendship between the two countries.
in writing. − following the intervention of the court of justice, which declared that certain clauses in air services agreements between member states and third countries were incompatible with the treaty as violating the freedom of establishment, the commission, with the authorisation of the council, opened negotiations with a view to replacing those provisions by a single agreement of community value. the eight bilateral agreements concluded between the member states and cape verde should therefore be amended accordingly. since i believe that this is a necessary way to guarantee the freedom of establishment of all eu carriers, in line with the fundamental principles of community law, i voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, signed on 23 march 2011.
in writing. − the air agreements which have been concluded by the eu with third countries, on the basis of article 49 tfeu, aim to eliminate the discriminatory basis on which certain european union air carriers are discriminated against in relation to freedom of establishment. in the case of this agreement with cape verde, the union intends to replace the eight existing bilateral agreements with a union-wide agreement, the so-called horizontal agreement. this agreement includes clauses on eu designation, on the right of establishment between air carriers of the member states, on a community framework for the taxation of energy products and on competition rules. the union has exclusive competence in this area, but i would reiterate that the european parliament should be consulted during the negotiation process, not just at the end of it. i welcome this report because i believe that both parties will gain economic advantages from the conclusion of the agreement, promoting mobility and accessibility between european countries and cape verde.
in writing. − the proposals put forward by the european commission in its white paper on insurance guarantee schemes are important for a european dimension. insurance guarantee schemes (isps) are considered valuable instruments for reducing the risks faced by policyholders in the event of a company's bankruptcy. the information available to consumers in the event of the insolvency of an insurance undertaking should be easily accessible, understandable and easy to follow. the creation of a single contact point for all financial guarantee schemes ensures that existing legislation actually benefits consumers, in particular with regard to the provision of information and the facilitation of cross-border contacts and payments.
in writing. the main objective of this own-initiative report is to protect the european consumer and to further integrate the internal market. the text proposes a set of elements to strengthen the insurance guarantee system (sgs) in europe. the context of the current economic, financial and budgetary crisis has shown that citizens' trust in the financial system can easily be undermined if there is no appropriate compensation process to correct the losses incurred by citizens as consumers of financial products. i therefore consider that these are appropriate and necessary measures to strengthen confidence in the insurance system and, consequently, in the european financial system as a whole. on the other hand, they represent a small step in the continuing process of european construction, from which we must not deviate for a second if we want a europe of peace, more justice, more prosperity and more solidarity.
in writing. - i look forward to a proposal from the commission on this subject and believe that this report can and should make a significant contribution to the architecture of a future european directive on insurance guarantee schemes. i support the rapporteur in choosing the four main priorities to be addressed in the future directive: ensuring consumer protection in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurer, adopting the country of origin principle, ensuring consumer protection in the event of fraud or mis-selling and ensuring taxpayer protection in the event of the failure of the insurance guarantee system. all this through a minimum harmonisation directive which ensures a level of consumer protection. finally, i would stress the importance of insurance guarantee schemes in reducing the risks in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company and the importance of this directive for the success of the solvency ii directive.
in writing. − in july 2010, the european commission presented its white paper on insurance guarantee schemes (igs) which included a set of proposals, in particular as regards solvency. this is an important issue, not only because of the need to end the wide diversity of systems in the various member states, but also because of the interaction between sgs and other issues under consideration in the eu, notably the solvency ii directive, which will enter into force in 2013 and will reduce the risk of insolvency of insurance companies to one in 200. the present report by mr skinner is based on the commission's proposals and, in these troubled times of the world economic and financial crisis, it is imperative that these measures be implemented as soon as possible in order to increase the confidence of european consumers who must be better informed on this matter. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − based on the recognition of the importance of insurance guarantee schemes (igs) in reducing the risks faced by policyholders and also by policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance undertaking, this report advocates a further development of the current solvency ii directive. this directive introduces a scale of supervisory intervention, minimising the likelihood of an insurer going bankrupt and the resulting disruption to policyholders or, as the case may be, beneficiaries. this is a very sensitive area, where sometimes, in the name of defending consumer rights and consumer confidence, the intention is to deepen the functioning of the internal market in financial services. that is why we are following this matter with some scepticism. we will be watching the situation closely, with consumer protection and the defence of the principle of subsidiarity as well as the interests of the various member states as our main concerns.
in writing. − this report takes the importance of insurance guarantee schemes (igs) in reducing the risks faced by policyholders and, where appropriate, by policyholders in the event of the insolvency of an insurance undertaking to advocate a deepening of the current solvency ii directive, which introduces a scale of supervisory intervention, minimising the likelihood of an insurer going bankrupt and the resulting disruption to policyholders or, as the case may be, policyholders. this is a very sensitive area, where sometimes, in the name of defending consumer rights and consumer confidence, the intention is to deepen the functioning of the internal market in financial services. we therefore regard this matter with some concern and it is a matter which deserves our full attention in its further development, in defending consumers and also in defending the principle of subsidiarity and the interests of the different member states.
in writing. - the commission should make a proposal on this subject, and this report will make a decisive contribution to a new european directive on insurance guarantee schemes. the rapporteur's approach to the main points to be considered seems to me to be correct, highlighting the following priorities: ensuring consumer protection in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurer, adopting the country of origin principle, ensuring consumer protection in the event of fraud or mis-selling and ensuring taxpayer protection in the event of the failure of the insurance guarantee system. we can achieve all this by means of a minimum harmonization directive which ensures a good level of consumer protection.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes (isps) are considered a valuable instrument for reducing the risks faced by policyholders in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company. the european parliament has repeatedly shown its support for the idea of a community approach. the proposals put forward by the european commission in its white paper on insurance guarantee schemes are important for the success of the solvency ii directive. the issue of sgss is complex due to the wide diversity of systems in place in the various member states and the interaction between sgss and other issues currently under consideration at union level, notably the imminent introduction of the solvency ii directive. i voted in favour because i believe that the path towards stronger and more rigorous supervision and the continuous assessment of the responsiveness and reactivity of national insurance guarantee systems is fundamental for the eu. indeed, the failure of a large company in one member state affects all the others, and it is therefore necessary to create synergies between member states and to ensure the sharing of good practices in approaches to sgs.
in writing. the introduction of an insurance guarantee system will strengthen citizens' confidence by guaranteeing them against the eventual insolvency of an insurance company. this is a set of preventive measures designed to prevent insurers from becoming insolvent, as well as a range of safeguard measures designed to ensure the protection of policyholders should such a situation arise. the need to prevent abuses in the conclusion of insurance contracts and to ensure equal protection for consumers, irrespective of the country of origin of the insurer, and the concern to avoid the costs of the insolvency of an insurer falling on taxpayers should also be stressed. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, because i understand that in the present context it is important to ensure that the risks faced by policyholders are reduced.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes (igs) are important instruments in reducing the risks faced by policyholders or beneficiaries in the event of the bankruptcy of a regulatory body, thus helping to strengthen consumer protection. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it crucial to harmonize the sgss, establishing a uniform and coherent cross-border framework for the systems of all the member states. i believe that there should be full collaboration between home and host supervisors and national gscs, and that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) should develop an integrated, simple approach based on international best practice. i think it is important that the sgss of the various european countries are tested, so that we can identify any problems at national level. account should be taken of small and concentrated markets which are unlikely to provide adequate funding for the activities of sgss and may generate dangerous systemic risks. finally, i would like to see all the information readily available to consumers so that they are fully aware of the various forms of protection against possible insolvency situations of insurers or how the continuity of insurance contracts is ensured when faced with portfolios transfer situations.
in writing. − the internal market is a key instrument for a competitive eu. a common vat system is essential for its effective functioning. a comprehensive vat system should reduce the operational costs of users and the administrative burden of authorities, while combating fraud, which represents a considerable burden on public finances and consumers. in the member states there are different vat exemption thresholds for smes that apply exclusively to national activities. in order for the european union to promote the growth of smes (which represent 99% of the business fabric) by taking advantage of the opportunities and benefits offered by the single market, it is important that the commission and the member states consider adopting a vat exemption threshold for smes common to the whole union, in order to reduce costs and burdens and ensure better access to the internal market.
in writing. - i am in favour of simplifying and harmonising the vat system in the eu, which will bring more transparency and efficiency, less bureaucracy, less fraud. in this way we can make the internal market work better and contribute to the much needed increase in competitiveness. the fight against vat fraud is a priority, especially as it is estimated to amount to €100 billion in the eu. vat revenue represents more than 21% of the tax revenues of the eu member states, which proves that it is an important source of revenue for national budgets, and in many of them it is even the main source of financing. companies cannot bear the administrative costs of vat, especially smes. it should be noted that in the eu they represent more than 99% of enterprises and about 67.4% of employment. in the case of portugal, smes create 81.4% of total employment. i believe that countries which are receiving external aid should show particular and concrete solidarity, because it is not possible to impose on them to increase taxes and at the same time to harmonize and exempt them.
in writing. the report calls on the member states to agree by january 2012 on a common list of goods and services eligible for vat exemptions or reduced rates, thus achieving some harmonisation at european level. it draws attention to the importance of a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against tax fraud. as regards vat, as the report says, this is a key issue, given the massive losses suffered by the member states, which will reach €100 billion in total. the report also calls on the commission and the member states to consider adopting a vat exemption threshold for small and medium-sized enterprises, common to the whole of the european union. lastly, it invites the commission to submit, by the end of 2013, on the basis of the conclusions of the member states and the vat committee, a report containing a (mandatory) list of goods and services eligible for a reduced rate of vat or an exemption under the vat directive. this is not the practical consequence of the report, but at this stage it is part of a process of deepening integration in the tax field, which we are not following.
in writing. − this is a report on the future of value added tax (vat), which calls on member states to agree by january 2012 on a common list of goods and services eligible for vat exemptions or reduced rates. it insists on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against tax fraud. the report also stresses that the eu should be able to take action to combat fraud and corruption, and that the eu should be able to take action to combat fraud and corruption. it also called on the commission and the member states to consider adopting a vat exemption threshold for smes that would be common throughout the european union. finally, it calls on the commission to submit to the ep and the council, by the end of 2013, a report containing a mandatory list of goods and services eligible for a reduced rate of vat or an exemption under the vat directive, on the basis of the conclusions of the member states and the vat committee. underlying all this is the attempt at tax harmonization, which we did not follow, and which we voted against.
in writing. the adoption of this report on the future of vat, which calls on the member states to establish by the beginning of next year a common list of goods and services to benefit from reduced vat rates, is very important for the future of vat. however, it is also necessary for the commission and the member states to consider adopting a vat exemption threshold for smes common to the whole union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing to the call made by this report for a reduced rate across the eu for some goods and services. the member states are asked to draw up, by the beginning of next year, a common list of goods and services to be exempted from vat or to benefit from reduced rates of vat. at the same time, the commission is asked to ratify it as binding by the end of 2013. the commission and the member states are also asked to consider adopting a common eu-wide vat exemption threshold for smes. the large majority of those who voted in favour of this report are in favour of the member states adopting a vat system with a broad base and further restricting the range of variation of the normal rate. i also agree with the various recommendations on the design of the vat system, the reduction of bureaucracy and the effectiveness of vat collection.
in writing. the value added tax (vat) system has a community dimension. in fact, since it is a consumption tax and since the community area is characterized by the free movement of goods, services and businesses, a common approach is required, subject to minor variations at national level. in this context, the commission proposed to apply the destination principle, i.e. to apply the rules where there are differences of the place where the purchaser is located. the commission is also concerned to reduce the inefficiencies of the administrative machinery, for example by reducing the frequency of periodic vat returns or by simplifying the proof required to exempt exports from vat. finally, it is also important to find ways of collecting the fines which will improve the efficiency of the system and reduce the number of cases of fraud. the future of vat, which we have tried to outline here, must be based on these principles: simplicity and efficiency. reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. − in december 2010, the european commission published the green paper on the future of vat entitled 'towards a simpler, more robust and more effective vat system', which sets out new measures to reform a 17-year-old system. i agree with this report that the effective functioning of the internal market can be enhanced by increasing the harmonisation of vat rates for various products and services at european level, especially in the transport sector and cultural goods where there are major distortions of competition. i would stress the work being done to make the system more efficient, based on close cooperation and the sharing of good practice between member states. i also believe that the new vat system should be adapted to cross-border business activities, reduce red tape by 25% by 2012 and reduce the administrative burden on businesses. the participation of the various business actors in the work of the vat committee will be decisive in this respect, and the european institutions should make use of their ideas and proposals. finally, i would like to stress the importance of adopting a 'green' vat system and of introducing reduced and deductible rates for energy-efficient products and services.
in writing. - i welcome the council's favourable recommendation on the appointment of jörg asmussen as president of the executive board of the european central bank.
in writing. − at a crucial moment in the life of the european institutions, when, in particular, the european central bank is called upon to play a particularly attentive and interventionist role in monitoring the sovereign debt crisis, the stability of the euro and the economic recovery, i wish the newly appointed jörg asmussen a successful mandate, and am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with dedication and competence.
in writing. - the european institutions must be served by the best. in this case the newly appointed jörg asmussen has a spotless record and was approved with distinction at the hearing in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. i therefore wish him every success in his eight years in office.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the appointment of mr jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. the overwhelming majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs considered the candidate's profile to be appropriate to the duties he will be performing, and this was the reason for my vote.
in writing. - the council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of jörg asmussen as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years. jörg asmussen has been state secretary at the ministry of finance of the german federal government since july 2008, with a long experience in economic and financial governance (e.g. as a delegate of the german finance ministry to the g7 and g20, member of the euro working group, member of the board of the european financial stability facility, deputy governor of the world bank or deputy governor of the ebrd). as someone with a great deal of knowledge in this field, i voted in favour, wishing him success in his duties.
in writing. − it is important to ensure the continuation of the eu guarantee for the eib's external financing operations for the remaining period of the current multiannual financial framework 2009-2013. i welcome some of the new elements introduced into the eib's mandate which will allow for much better coordination to achieve eu objectives, substantially increased accountability and transparency and better use of the eu budgetary guarantee. the ep mainly sought to adapt the ceilings to allow the continuation of operations until 31 december 2013, to enhance the transparency of eib operations under the external mandate and the support of these operations to eu foreign policy objectives, as well as to pave the way for longer-term prospects, some of which were highlighted in the recommendations of the mid-term review.
in writing. − the external mandate of the european investment bank has been decided jointly by the parliament and the council since 2009. the current mandate of the eib expires in october 2011 and the commission proposed in april 2010 to extend it until 2013. i welcome the institutions involved in the negotiations and the result of their joint efforts and the consequent increase in the union's guarantees to the bank. i hope that the funds available to the eib will be used efficiently and productively and that coordination between the union and the bank will become increasingly a reality, bearing in mind both the needs of internal cohesion and the external objectives of the union.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. on 21 april 2010, the commission presented to the european parliament (ep) and the council a proposal for a decision aimed at ensuring the continuation of the eu guarantee for eib external financing operations during the final phase of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) until 2013, by introducing certain amendments. the committee on budgets adopted a set of amendments and commitments at first reading, taking into account the contributions received from five other committees. the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate of the eib to include the european investment bank, the european investment bank and the european investment fund.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib) can lend to projects not only in the member states of the european union but also in other countries. this report addresses the issue of eu budgetary guarantees to cover sovereign and political risks associated with lending and loan guarantee operations outside the eu. this is a matter for co-decision (parliament and council). on 21 april 2010, the commission presented to the parliament and the council a proposal for a decision granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the european union. at parliamentary committee level, a number of amendments were adopted at first reading, including commitments resulting from multiple informal contacts and opinions received from five other committees. on 27 january 2011, the committee on budgets (budg) adopted its recommendation to the plenary, incorporating an overall commitment amendment in the form of a consolidated text. this is an important step in that it safeguards and helps to make operational the possibility of granting loans, for example, for the development of projects in developing countries.
in writing. − the european investment bank (eib), whose shareholders are the member states, is one of the financial instruments that provides loans for projects outside the eu (€9 billion). the eu budget guarantee covering sovereign and political risks of lending and loan guarantees operations outside the eu is co-decided by the european parliament and the council. however, on 21 april 2010, the commission presented to the ep and the council a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council granting an eu guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under loans and guarantees for projects outside the european union. at committee level, a number of amendments were adopted at first reading, including commitments resulting from multiple informal contacts and opinions received from five other committees. on 27 january 2011, the committee on budgets (budg) adopted its recommendation to the plenary, incorporating an overall commitment amendment in the form of a consolidated text.
in writing. − since 2009, the european parliament and the european council have been deciding jointly on the external mandate of the european investment bank. it expires in october 2011. however, a commission proposal proposes to extend it until 2013. i am pleased to note that the negotiations between the various institutions have come to a positive conclusion, with a significant increase in the guarantees offered by the european union to the eib. let us hope that these funds will be used effectively and contribute to the solution of the crisis.
in writing. − the rapporteur considers that the text now presented broadly reflects parliament's first reading and is the result of intensive negotiations carried out from february to june 2011. it also considered that, overall, the extension of the eib's mandate would allow for better coordination in achieving eu objectives, allowing for substantially increased accountability and transparency and better use of the eu budgetary guarantee. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the aim of the commission proposal is to maintain the eu guarantee for the eib's external financing operations. at first reading, the european parliament's main objective was to increase the transparency of the eib's activities and to seek to integrate its activities into the eu's long-term objectives. among the points advanced at the time was that the commission's annual report should address the relationship between the support granted and the eu's external policy objectives, the implications of this action in terms of environmental and energy sustainability and the link between the funds made available through the eib and those of other donors. these amendments were accepted and the council took account of the observations of the european parliament. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european union's financial instruments. this was in response to the financial crisis and the intensification of the bank's support for the countries in which it operates. the proposal is to generate new recoverable capital by converting accumulated distributable reserves into share capital and will therefore not have an immediate impact on the eu budget. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important measure to help reverse the current european economic and financial situation. the additional liquidity injection into the ebrd will objectively allow the bank to strengthen and develop its business. although the european parliament would have liked to go further, i am nevertheless pleased that the trilogue has agreed to submit a report by the end of the fourth review of capital resources, assessing the european public investment banking system and also examining the possibility of restructuring the banks concerned, as requested earlier by the european parliament.
in writing. − the board of governors of the ebrd decided to increase the capital in may 2010. the authorised capital of the bank will be increased by 50% from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. the purpose of this capital increase is to respond to the financial crisis and to step up the bank's support for those to whom it invests. as this is a non-controversial proposal and is intended to respond to a crisis situation, it cannot but deserve my vote in favour.
in writing. − in may 2010, the board of governors of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) decided to increase its share capital by 50%, from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. it is the first eu financial institution to be set up to support europe's economic development following the break-up of the soviet union. the ebrd mainly supports the development of the local sector: small and medium-sized enterprises, private individuals, municipalities, regional cooperation, innovation, job creation, energy, green projects, etc. this report, by sharon bowles, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the subscription by the european union of additional shares in the capital of the ebrd, in proportion to its current share of 3,031%. i agree with this subscription and welcome the eu's capital increase for the ebrd, an example of the eu's economic and shareholding capacity, and i hope that part of this capital will be used to support the development of the countries involved in the so-called arab spring.
in writing. − this proposal for a decision aims to allow the european union to subscribe to new feasible operations of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) in the context of the capital increase decided by the board of governors of the ebrd in 2010. the decision shall also authorise the governor of the ebrd, representing the european union, to deposit the required instrument of subscription. in may the board of governors decided to increase the bank's capital by 50%, from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion, in order to respond to the financial crisis and to step up the bank's support for the countries in which it operates. the capital increase consists of eur 1 billion of paid-in capital and eur 9 billion of capital realizable. as the committee on budgets points out, the proposal is to generate new capital by converting accumulated distributable reserves into share capital. the operation will therefore have no immediate consequences for the eu budget. the risk arises from the possibility of having to raise additional capital in the unlikely event of a significant negative development of the bank's investment portfolio.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the decision shall also authorise the governor of the ebrd, representing the european union, to deposit the required instrument of subscription. the bank's board of governors decided last may to increase its capital from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion in order to respond to the financial crisis and to step up its activities in support of the countries in which it operates. the capital increase consists of eur 1 billion of paid-in capital and eur 9 billion of capital realizable. as the committee on budgets points out, the proposal is to generate new capital by converting accumulated distributable reserves into share capital. the operation will therefore have no immediate consequences for the eu budget. the risk arises from the possibility of having to raise additional capital in the unlikely event of a significant negative development of the bank's investment portfolio.
in writing. − the capital increase of the ebrd was decided by its board of governors in may 2010. the authorised capital of the bank will be increased by 50% from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. this increase is the ebrd's response to the financial crisis, in order to increase the bank's activity in supporting investments chosen for ebrd support.
in writing. − the board of governors of the ebrd decided on 14 and 15 may 2010 to increase the share capital by 50% from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. the aim of the proposed legislation is to allow the european union to subscribe to new feasible ebrd shares in proportion to the union's current share in the capital (3,031%). the commission proposal is not controversial. in view of the rapporteur's conclusions on this subject, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - following the increase in the share capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development, decided by its board of governors, legislative authorization is required for the european union to subscribe to new shares. i voted in favour of the proposal, but only in the interests of maintaining the european union's relative position in the social context, which is 3.031%.
in writing. the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) was set up in 1990 to support the development of market economies from europe to central asia. the ebrd's share capital is currently held by the european union, the european investment bank and 61 countries. on 14 and 15 may 2010, the governors of the ebrd decided to adopt two resolutions to increase the bank's share capital by 50% from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion. the issue of 100,000 shares will be proportional to the shareholding of the members in the bank, with the eu subscribing 3,031 new shares with an individual nominal value of eur 1,000. i agree with this report because the ebrd can increase its activity in the countries where it operates, ensure support for new markets, encourage increased cooperation with other european financial institutions and apply best prudential banking practices. i would also like to stress the importance of the adoption of mechanisms for monitoring the european banking system, of achieving the objectives set in the field of external relations and of allowing the eu to maintain the same number of votes in the ebrd.
in writing. − arms trafficking is one of the illegal activities that continue to threaten the internal security of the eu. this initiative addresses intra-community trade and transfers of firearms, their parts, essential components and ammunition and is part of the eu's policy to combat transnational crime, providing for the strengthening of the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms, including export controls and the tracing and reduction of the proliferation and spread of small arms worldwide. the united nations firearms protocol aims to promote, facilitate and strengthen cooperation among states to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms and related items. given that only 13 member states have ratified the protocol so far, i think it will be important to adopt this initiative through the ordinary legislative procedure in order to allow article 10 of the protocol to apply to all member states. it will thus allow for the harmonization and simplification of procedures, while at the same time it should make the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms more effective by promoting and strengthening cooperation between states.
in writing. − this report promotes the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms and aims to apply article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, annexed to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime to all member states by promoting and strengthening cooperation. i would like to stress the general objective of this document, which is to harmonize and simplify procedures, and to combat effectively the illicit trafficking in firearms by promoting and strengthening cooperation between the member states. i voted for this report with satisfaction, because with the un protocol in force for the 27 the eu wins, the citizens win and world peace and security win.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the application of article 10 of the united nations firearms protocol, which lays down measures for the authorisation of exports, imports and transit of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition, as it contains important measures to combat illicit trafficking in firearms, provides for stricter control of legal transfers and strengthens cooperation between national authorities.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to transpose article 10 of the united nations protocol on firearms, their export, import and transit into european law, focusing on the issue of the export of firearms for civilian use. the general objective of harmonising and simplifying procedures is complemented by the objective of combating illicit trafficking in firearms effectively by promoting and strengthening cooperation between member states.
in writing. − this report, by mr salvatore iacolino, analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing article 10 of the united nations (un) protocol on firearms and establishing measures to authorise the export, import and transit of such weapons, their parts, components and ammunition. this proposal covers firearms for civilian use, in particular small calibre weapons and those used by hunters or sport shooters. the new proposal for a regulation transposes article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms into eu law. i support this proposal unconditionally, because all measures to combat illicit trafficking in firearms are welcome. let us remember what happened in sweden just recently with the slaughter of almost a hundred victims. it is also essential that all those involved in this trade feel that they are properly controlled so as to prevent the diversion of these weapons to the black markets. it's the safety of the citizens that's at stake.
in writing. - the purpose of this regulation is to transpose into community law article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition (unfp). this protocol, which is the first binding agreement on small arms worldwide, was approved by the united nations general assembly in may 2001 and has been ratified by more than 80 un member states, including portugal. the regulation covers trade in and transfer of non-automatic weapons, their parts and ammunition for civilian use to third countries, including countries that have not ratified the unfp. this protocol sets out positive steps towards the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms at global level, focusing on the control of imports/exports and the transit of articles. unfp therefore considers that each state should establish or maintain an effective system of export and import licensing or authorization, as well as an effective system of measures relating to international transit.
in writing. - the purpose of this regulation is to transpose into community law the implementation of article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition (unfp). this protocol, which is the first binding agreement on small arms worldwide, was approved by the united nations general assembly in may 2001 and has been ratified by more than 80 un member states, including portugal. the regulation covers trade in and transfer of non-automatic weapons, their parts and ammunition for civilian use to third countries, including countries that have not ratified the unfp. we consider that the unfp is making positive steps towards combating illicit trafficking in firearms at global level by focusing on import/export controls and the transit of items, noting that each state should establish or maintain an effective system of licensing or authorizing export and import, as well as an effective system of measures relating to international transit. but we do not follow the rapporteur in all his positions.
in writing. - new rules were adopted today to control the export of firearms for civilian use, such as small arms or those used by hunters or sport shooters. this legislation, already agreed with the eu council of ministers, establishes a system of export from member states to third countries, establishing a common system for the whole union. the aim is to strengthen the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms. the new regulation transposes article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms into eu law.
in writing. − this report introduces new rules to control the export of firearms for civilian use, such as small calibre weapons or those used by hunters or sport shooters. this new legislation, agreed with the eu council of ministers, establishes a regime for exports from member states to third countries, establishing a common union-wide system, with the aim of strengthening the fight against illicit trafficking in firearms by transposing article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms into the eu. european exporters will have to obtain an authorisation from a member state before they can export firearms, their parts or ammunition to countries outside the eu. an export authorization shall be granted only if the importing country agrees and if there is no objection from a transit country. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation introduced the system for the export of firearms from member states to third countries, pursuant to article 10 of the un protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition. i voted in favour of this proposal because it is a balanced proposal which contributes to safeguarding public safety while at the same time taking account of the socioeconomic implications of such a regulation.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on the application of article 10 of the unfp protocol aims to incorporate it into european legislation. the aim is to apply a harmonised and simplified system for trade in firearms for civilian use within the eu. the unfp protocol provides for authorisation for the import, export and transit of the abovementioned articles to third countries, taking into account certain categories of users. this simplification of procedures is intended both to combat the illicit production and trafficking of arms as a threat to public security and to ensure the sustainability of the european industry itself. i think it is essential that the member states ratify the protocol, since it is an essential and complementary document to the united nations convention against transnational organized crime.
in writing. − this legislative resolution deals with the exceptional incentive measures for the western balkan territory as a stabilising and development-promoting principle. the main objective of these measures is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the european market. in the light of the current situation in the region, i consider that economic development is objectively an essential factor for the preservation of peace and security and for political stability in the region. i therefore support the extension of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 in order to extend its validity until 2015, the time to bring about the entry into force of the european union agreements with serbia and bosnia and herzegovina, as requested in the text of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process because i consider it necessary to extend the regulation providing for the exemption from duties of almost all products originating in these countries and territories of the western balkans, thus helping to revitalise their economies.
in writing. the exceptional trade measures applied to bosnia-herzegovina, serbia and kosovo are designed to revitalise the economies of the western balkans and to promote their political stabilisation. the shortcomings and tensions that continue to affect the countries of the region are still evident today, and therefore the special care and attention of the european union towards them and the encouragement not to abandon the already expressed intentions of one day being able to join the eu are fully justified. the termination of the measures in question would undermine the trade advantages of the above-mentioned states and would be a significant setback for their economies. i therefore welcome the extension of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 to allow for its extension until 31 december 2015 and for the implementation of adjustments resulting from the entry into force of the union's agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia.
in writing. the report, drawn up by vital moreira, is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 adopting exceptional trade measures in favour of countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process. since 2000, the eu has exceptionally granted unlimited access to the european market, exempting almost all products originating in these countries from duties, in order to support internal reform processes and the implementation of democratic regimes. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to extend until 31 december 2015 the trade preferences with the western balkan countries linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, macedonia, montenegro and serbia). these preferences give these countries significant economic advantages in their exports to the member states.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. these preferences, initially provided for in council regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, subsequently codified by council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009, expired at the end of 2010. the rapporteur argues that the end of trade preferences could have very adverse consequences on the overall economic performance of all the western balkans, with the consequent negative repercussions on their internal reform and transition processes. these processes are, as is well known, part of the eu's enlargement strategy, which seeks to protect them in defence of the interests that govern the integration process itself - the same ones that benefit from it. the regulation provides for measures that the commission may adopt if imports of agricultural and fishery products cause serious disturbances in eu markets and their regulatory mechanisms. these are provisions which the commission can use at its discretion and which do not sufficiently protect the member states which consider themselves to be affected. the products concerned (some may be considered sensitive products) include: fish, meat and wine.
in writing. the commission is proposing to extend until the end of 2015 a set of trade preferences granted to countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association processes - bosnia and herzegovina, serbia, kosovo. these preferences are set out in council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 of 30 november 2009 and expired at the end of 2010. the rapporteur believes that the end of trade preferences would harm these countries and what he calls their internal reform and transition processes. the eu's enlargement strategy is a key element in the process of european integration. the regulation provides for measures that the commission may adopt if imports of agricultural and fishery products cause serious disturbances in eu markets and their regulatory mechanisms. but the use of these provisions is left to the discretion of the commission, which does not sufficiently protect the member states which consider themselves to be affected. the products concerned include fish, meat and wine, which may be considered sensitive products for some countries.
in writing. − with regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, the european union granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the eu market to almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the main objective of this measure is to revitalise the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. the resulting economic development will promote political stability throughout the region. the benefits of this regulation shall expire on 31 december 2010. in view of the ongoing financial and economic crisis, it is necessary to extend these conditions until 31 december 2015 in order to ensure that the end of these privileged conditions does not lead to stagnation of the economies of these regions, which need good economic conditions to maintain stability and peace in this troubled region of the balkans.
in writing. − this report supports the extension of trade preferences with the western balkan countries until the end of 2015. the aim of the extension of this measure, which dates from 2000, is to maintain eu support for the revitalization of the western balkan economies through privileged access to the eu market. the end of the trade preferences would deprive the beneficiaries of an objective economic advantage in their trade with the eu. this could have very adverse consequences on the overall economic performance of all the western balkans, with the consequent negative repercussions on their internal reform and transition processes. moreover, their economic recovery could be seriously jeopardised. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the western balkan countries, which benefit from the stabilisation and association process, have privileged access to the community market by virtue of the trade preferences introduced by regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, subsequently amended several times and codified in regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. according to that regulation, such trade preferences would only be granted until 31 december 2010. however, given the current financial situation, the consequences of not renewing them could be extremely serious for the economies of these countries. to this extent, i consider that the present amendment to regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 is fully justified, which, in addition to introducing certain adjustments made necessary following the entry into force of the bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia, extends the application of these trade preferences until 31 december 2015.
in writing. − the eu granted, through regulation (ec) no 2007/2000, exceptional unlimited duty-free access to its market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process with the aim of revitalising their economies, which was, after several amendments, codified by council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009. those trade preferences are currently applied to bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo, while products originating in albania, the republic of croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia or montenegro continue to be eligible under regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 for more favourable measures than the trade concessions established under the bilateral agreements. in so far as the interim and stabilisation and association agreements provide for trade concessions in favour of bosnia and herzegovina in respect of the products identified in the trade preferences, those concessions should be deleted from the regulation. however, the end of the trade preferences would deprive the beneficiaries of an economic advantage in their trade with the eu. the proposal voted on today therefore amends certain elements of the regulation to allow for its extension until the end of 2015 and to make certain adjustments following the entry into force of the agreements.
in writing. − following the state of the union address of 28 september 2011, the european parliament called on the president of the commission to present a comprehensive plan with a clear roadmap, defining distinct phases for its implementation. at the last plenary session of the european parliament, the president of the european commission presented the roadmap for stability and growth, which sets out in detail all the measures needed to overcome the crisis in europe. the stability and growth pact is a compelling plan for both markets and european citizens, backed by an overwhelming majority in the european parliament. the commission is proposing concrete measures to enhance the benefits of the single market: strengthening the digital and energy internal markets, new patent legislation and new free trade agreements. finally, a programme to support the first jobs of young europeans is proposed - a banner of mine and that of the portuguese delegation of the european people's party since the beginning of this parliamentary term. we hope that the european council on 23 october will put the common future of the european countries above national selfishness and adopt the roadmap as a genuine european marshall plan.
in writing. the european council also welcomed the fact that the european council had adopted a resolution on the future of the eu, which was to be adopted by the council on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on 21 and 22 june. i believe that a european plan for growth, investment and employment should be presented, with a clear timetable and including, among other measures, the strengthening of the community method in economic governance, the communitisation of the european financial stability facility and the future european stability mechanism, the coordination and harmonisation of the tax systems of the member states, including measures against fraud and tax evasion, and the preparation of a report on the establishment of a common system for the issuance of european sovereign bonds (eurobonds) before the end of 2011.
in writing. - we are at a critical moment in our history and the european union is called not only to assume its responsibilities in containing the sovereign debt crisis, but also, and more importantly, to set out on the road to the future, without hesitation, without deadlock, without delay. the european council of 23 october has therefore, as president barroso said, an obligation to be aware of the serious events we are experiencing. there is no room for (further) failures and delays and the way forward will have to be a determined and courageous political response. as we have done in other times in our history, when we have recovered from difficult situations, i am confident that the european union will overcome this crisis and emerge from it with better and more robust mechanisms for the future. the political will of our leaders will be decisive, and i therefore regard the presentation of the stability and growth roadmap by the european commission as very positive. i hope that the european council on 23 october will be able to give a decisive and effective response to the great challenges that lie ahead.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution tabled following statements by the council and the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure, on the preparation of the next european council on 23 october. in view of the social upheavals which are sweeping across europe as a result of the current economic and financial crisis, the next european council meeting is of great importance for the future of the european union and in particular the euro zone, which has prompted a thorough discussion in this parliament. i welcome the adoption of this resolution, which i support, because it contains key proposals for the future of the eu, including the adoption of a european plan to promote economic growth, encourage investment and increase employment in pursuit of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. measures such as the communi­tionalization of the european financial stability fund, the completion of the review of financial market regulation, fiscal harmonization and the creation of a sovereign bond system are some of the issues i would like to see adopted at the next european council, in order to achieve a more united and more united eu.
in writing. - another resolution reflecting the commitments, complicity and shared responsibilities of the main political groups, including the right and social democracy, in the current disaster course of the european union. the european council stressed the need to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union, particularly the stability and growth pact, which will not overcome the inequalities within the eu, nor will it prioritise the creation of jobs with rights, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, inequalities and social injustices. as we have long argued, what was needed was a pact for employment and social progress to replace the current sgp definitively. a pact based on the development of a set of policies which are the antithesis of so-called austerity, of which the extreme examples are the current programmes of aggression against workers and peoples, imposed by the imf, the ecb and the european commission in greece, portugal and ireland. instead of transferring millions more from the pockets of the workers and the people to private banking, it is necessary to promote public control of sectors such as the financial sector, whose importance is considerable, in order to rescue it from the logic of the casino economy to which it has been handed over.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution because it once again ignores reality and the fundamental measures needed to change the serious situation in the european union. it should already be clear that without changing the policies and foundations of economic and monetary union, it is not possible to give priority to employment with rights, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, inequalities and social injustices. we insist on the urgent need for an employment and social progress pact and the definitive abolition of the current sgp. it is time to put an end to the programmes of genuine aggression against the workers and peoples imposed by the imf, the ecb and the european commission in greece, portugal and ireland. as the workers and peoples in struggle demand, it is time for a break with these policies of monopoly capitalism which are causing profound social injustices in most of the countries of the european union. and all this while at the same time preparing to give many billions of euros to the banks, transferring their debt to the public sector, that is to say to workers, young people and women in precarious or unemployed situations, pensioners without decent living conditions, small and mediumsized enterprises that can no longer bear the financial strain and the sudden breakdown of the purchasing power of the population.
in writing. − the difficult situation facing the eu, and more specifically the euro area, is not condoned by a weak commission with no decision-making power. that is why the next european council is of crucial importance for finding the best ways out of the crisis. it is imperative that the commission presents a comprehensive plan with the solutions needed to get us out of this crisis. i would stress, however, that the role of the european parliament will be essential in discussing and approving these solutions, particularly as regards economic governance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out a number of proposals to be discussed on the agenda of the european council on 23 october. i would stress the concerns about economic policy, in particular the strengthening of competitiveness and the promotion of employment, and the eu's position for the g20 summit and the durban conference on climate change, some of the issues to be discussed at the next european council.
in writing. - the recent events which have shaken the community space are a clear indication of the need to devise, without further delay, a consistent response which will allow the current crisis to be overcome and the basis for growth and stability in the euro area to be restored. the next european council is crucial in this respect. i therefore hope that the commission will be given a clear mandate on 23 october so that it can implement a comprehensive action plan capable of meeting the challenges we are facing.
in writing. the next european council is decisive for the future of the eu and must, finally and in a definite way, show the way forward to deal with the serious economic and financial crisis afflicting the european union. i call on the european commission, together with the epp group to which i belong, to present a comprehensive plan with a clear road map, defining distinct phases for its implementation with the utmost urgency. the plan should contain a programme for the recapitalisation of banks, a european programme for growth, investment and employment, the communitisation of the efsf and the future european stability mechanism, ways of improving the efforts to coordinate and harmonise the tax systems of the member states, a proposal for a stronger mechanism to enable the implementation of the single market acquis in the member states, an economic governance of the euro area based on the community method, a report on the creation of a common system of euro securities and, finally, proposals to complete financial market regulation and make the eu more resilient to future crises. i would also like to remind you of the role of the european parliament, as the institution directly elected by the european citizens, in terms of democratic legitimacy and accountability.
in writing. − romania and bulgaria fulfilled all the criteria for the successful completion of the schengen evaluation process. each of these countries has reorganised its integrated border management systems, invested substantially in its police authorities, including training and the latest technologies, and has visibly strengthened its institutional and legal frameworks, fully transposing the schengen acquis. it is imperative that all member states honour their commitments under the eu legal framework as regards the criteria for accession to the schengen area in order to allow the accession of bulgaria and romania.
in writing. - i regard the free movement of persons and specifically the creation of the schengen area as one of the greatest achievements of the european integration process. as regards the accession of romania and bulgaria, and despite the council's postponement of the vote on 22 september last, i would like to point out that the ability of both countries to join the schengen area was already certified by parliament and the commission last june. i therefore believe that the accession of these countries should take place as soon as possible, as emphasized in the resolution now adopted.
in writing. the european council also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the schengen acquis to include the schengen area, and to extend it to the countries of central and eastern europe, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
in writing. - bulgaria and romania have successfully transposed the schengen acquis and are now objectively in a position to join the schengen area. despite the efforts of both countries, some member states have raised objections to accession, a circumstance which could not but cause unease within the union. if there are understandable concerns and concerns about the internal security of the union, it cannot be considered appropriate to seek to change the rules for accession to the schengen area after the countries concerned have undertaken reforms and improved their services in order to comply with them in a timely and appropriate manner. in doing so, the states which oppose the accession of bulgaria and romania are weakening solidarity and calling into question the safety and quality of the european level of standards in such sensitive matters as freedom of movement, migration and border security. i do not mean to say that it is inappropriate to judge critically the weaknesses of the member states - or to discuss organised crime and corruption - but that we cannot define accession rules and then try to bar those who do not comply from entering the schengen area.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is a fundamental right guaranteed to eu citizens by the treaties. the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis into the eu framework is an achievement that favours the process of european integration. romania and bulgaria fulfilled all the criteria for the successful completion of the schengen evaluation process, as stated in the resolution of the ep and the council of 8 june 2011 and in their conclusions of 9 june 2011. romania and bulgaria have undertaken a fundamental reformulation and reorganisation of their integrated border management systems and have strengthened their institutional and legal frameworks. i therefore believe that member states should honour their commitments under the eu legal framework as regards the criteria for accession to the schengen area and consequently should take the decision to extend the schengen area to include bulgaria and romania, without imposing additional criteria on member states that have already started the process of accession to the schengen area.
in writing. - despite the critical position we have taken and continue to take on the schengen agreement, its meaning and implications, we cannot fail to point out the tremendous contradictions of the european union in this area. as the resolution acknowledges, bulgaria and romania meet the required requirements. nevertheless, they have become hostages to populist speeches. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the house also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. we are faced with the contradiction of all the talk of eu officials about the free movement of people, goods, services and capital.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling on the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia. as is well known, we take a negative view of the schengen agreement, but we cannot help but point out the enormous contradictions of the european union in this area too. as has been stressed in several speeches, bulgaria and romania meet all the requirements and should not be held hostage to populist speeches. it is an action which only protects the interests of a few great powers and contradicts the whole discourse of those responsible for the european union on the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital.
in writing. - the eu cannot, at first, require certain conditions for new countries to join the schengen area and then, as soon as these conditions are met, deny these countries entry into the area, using populist arguments. the position of the netherlands and finland does not seem to me to be the most appropriate when we pride ourselves on the eu being a space of solidarity. it does not shock me that new criteria may be required for integrating the schengen area in future accessions, but after romania and bulgaria have made a great effort to meet the current criteria, it does not seem right to deny them access to the schengen area.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of customs offices and customs offices in the member states. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action.
in writing. − romania and bulgaria fulfil all the criteria for accession to the schengen area, have fully transposed their respective acquis and have undertaken the necessary reforms in their border management systems. i therefore feel i must join the european parliament in calling on the member states to vote without further delay on the extension of the schengen area to these countries.
in writing. − the creation of the schengen area and the free movement of persons within the eu are key pillars of the whole process of european integration. this achievement, as well as the integration of the schengen acquis into eu law, must not be called into question by populist and nationalist ideologies. the economic crisis affecting the euro area should not be used as an excuse to change community policies and exclude member states which have shown that they meet all the criteria. following their accession in 2007, bulgaria and romania adopted the schengen acquis and made the greatest efforts to meet the requested criteria, in particular in terms of data protection, sis, air, land and sea borders, police cooperation and visas. after the positive results of the evaluations, a prerequisite for the accession of the states to the schengen area, the decision was blocked in the council by france and germany, citing shortcomings in the fight against corruption and organised crime. i believe that the additional criteria requested are contrary to the core values of the eu. we cannot apply different criteria to the countries concerned. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution and urge the council to take a decision as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group. other i warmly congratulate mr ádám kósa on his excellent report. it sets out concrete measures to enable disabled people to participate actively in society. the numbers speak for themselves: there are about 80 million disabled european citizens and only 30 to 40% are in employment or able to work. this employment rate is very low, which increases the risk of poverty and social exclusion. there is still much to be done in terms of increasing employment and eliminating discrimination against people with disabilities. participation in working life and economic independence are essential factors for social integration. in this regard, member states should remove barriers to access to employment and facilitate mobility in all sectors of life. these measures to be taken by the member states should aim at improving the quality of life for all in a society where people can work more efficiently and under better conditions. in this connection, the very important role of education and training systems is emphasised, which must be sufficiently prepared to respond in the best possible way to the needs of people with disabilities. i would like to conclude by calling for the successful implementation of the european disability strategy in all member states.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of the disabled. the european union is also calling on the member states to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rights of persons with disabilities are respected and that they are not discriminated against. but we also need to develop community and national policies and strategies in the field of disability which are not based on a vague european commission action plan, with no precise timetables, no adequate financial support, no practical measures and no coherent policies to facilitate the social inclusion of disabled people, which properly support their organisations and which take account of the enormous difficulties faced by many families of disabled people. it is not enough to say that the human rights of disabled people are recognised and then adopt policies which in practice call into question their most basic rights, as is the case with the so-called austerity programmes, the neo-liberal policies of the stability pact and the demand for compliance with their irrational nominal criteria, serving as cover for wage cuts, the closure of essential public services for these people, as is happening in portugal, greece and other countries, putting into question access to basic public services such as health, education, transport and energy. we know that many of the 80 million or so disabled people in the european union face major obstacles in their daily lives, partly physical, partly social, including services and products without adequate accessibility. we know that the employment rate of disabled people whose working capacity has changed is generally very low throughout the european union, with only 30 to 40% of these people actually working. and the situation is even more serious in member states with weaker economies, although it is known that, as mentioned in an ilo study, disabled workers are able to achieve significant results if they obtain a job compatible with their experience, skills and interests. although the report generally addresses these issues, we regret that a proposal we made in the committee on employment on the need to establish and implement minimum incomes in the member states of the european union, which would make life easier for many people with disabilities and their families, was not adopted. we also believe that the epp should not move forward with its proposal on article 53. our final outcome will depend on it as well.
i thank mrs rühle for the excellent report she has prepared. the advantages of public procurement are certainly well known, but the obstacles are also clear: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the quality of prices/complexity of laws and procedures dichotomy is evident. it is essential to look at existing good practices, particularly in portugal, where e-procurement has worked well and has facilitated public procurement. effective european public procurement is a prime means of controlling government deficits and other growth. it should therefore have a stable and predictable legal framework, less bureaucratic procedures to attract smes and to uphold social and environmental values. that is why i welcome the intention that commissioner barnier has put forward here to review public procurement this year as one of the 12 priorities of the single market act.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs rühle and all those who have worked with her. the question of electronic public procurement is important in the field of public procurement. unfortunately, the targets proposed by the european union (50% of electronic procurement in 2010) fell short, with an average of just under 5%. only a few countries, such as my own, portugal, have been successful in this area. the advantages of electronic public procurement are self-evident and are set out below: it allows the replacement of costly access procedures by simple consultation of the electronic platform, i.e. it reduces many costs for businesses, especially smes; the promotion of process parts via the internet and the ease of receiving them increases the number of suppliers, increasing competition and making it possible to buy better; makes the process of awarding public contracts easier and more flexible; simplifies access to public procurement in the european union, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, thus facilitating the participation of these important economic drivers in the public procurement market. in this respect, we welcome and encourage the european commission to strengthen the mechanisms to make electronic public procurement an increasingly widespread reality.
we agree that public procurement should be based on principles such as maximising social welfare and protecting the environment. the purchase of goods and services by public authorities using public funds must meet the needs of citizens in each member state, and must do so while ensuring respect for criteria of economic, social and environmental sustainability, but the creation of a european public procurement market, under the concrete conditions in which the integration process is currently taking place, does not ensure, on the contrary, the attainment of these objectives. the main thing is to open the way for large economic groups to a market worth some 17% of the total gdp of the european union. the imbalances that exist today within the european union and the very serious situation facing the weakest economies justify that public procurement in these member states can be geared to national preference, stimulating domestic production, the activity of smes and shorter, socially and environmentally more sustainable supply chains, thus constituting an important instrument of economic recovery in the service of the essential growth and development, which allows overcoming deficits and blockages. here is our proposal and our challenge.
in recent weeks, the portuguese have lost 14% of their pensions, in recent years they have lost 30% of their pensions, a fifth of their salaries have had countless tax increases. now, what you didn't know is that this struggling country is making direct investment abroad, which has soared 134 percent in the last year and of which 80 percent is going to a single country, the netherlands, a country in the european union where 19 of the 20 largest portuguese companies have shell headquarters to avoid taxes. what this means, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, is that there are countries that are losing out on the crisis, but there are countries that are gaining out of the crisis, and this is bad for both of us because it prevents us from seeing the evidence, which may destroy us, that common budgetary targets without fiscal harmonization are pitting europeans against each other and could destroy the euro. in 1919, a european named john maynard keynes said that if the debate were based on prudent generosity and not stupid greed, europe's financial prospects would be much better. the decades that followed proved him right tragically, and we know that no one got away with it.
madam president, as in greece, so in portugal too the government is carrying out a serious offensive against labour rights and the social functions of the state. under the pretext of complying with the troika memorandum, the portuguese government has presented a state budget proposal which is a direct attack on workers' rights, public services and the social functions of the state: wage cuts, increased working time, devaluation of collective bargaining, higher taxes on goods and services of general consumption and reduction or closure of essential public services and supports in such important areas as health, education, social protection, transport and communications. all this heralds a serious economic and social disaster, and so there are the small and large struggles of the workers and the populations who deserve our solidarity, as in the past weekend in montemor-o-novo, in the alentejo, in the fight against the closure of the emergency service at night, or in lisbon, where more than 10 000 trade unionists and activists held a national plenary and a parade with great popular support. these struggles will continue in several other sectors, and a general strike is also planned for 24 november. hence our solidarity and appeal to all to do the same.
we are living in decisive times for the fate of europe and if, before the eyes of all, the situation has rapidly changed from a greek or portuguese problem to a problem of european dimensions, the truth is that the inadequacy of the solutions proposed and their delay have not produced any effectiveness in the rapid deterioration of the situation. the search for state-led solutions at the expense of truly european solutions has allowed markets to continue to speculate on sovereign debts and has imposed deadlines and rates that are absolutely impossible and that some states are seeking to achieve with measures of a previously unimaginable brutality applied to people, businesses and the public sector. it is absolutely essential that a common solution has been found for the risk of european sovereign debts, which will remove market pressure and speculation and give time for the adjustment which is essential. without that, what we end up with are countries that will still be unable to pay their creditors, destroyed economies and much, much suffering.
madam president, in this debate we cannot ignore the social situation in the european union, with about a third of workers in precarious situations, with low wages, with 25 million unemployed, mainly young people and women, who are being denied a future of dignity. that is why, in this context, to talk about encouraging the mobility of workers often means encouraging social dumping, the worsening of the exploitation of those who need a job in a country other than their own, even if they are from countries of the european union. we therefore insist on a policy of development and social progress and on the end of austerity policies which are aggravating unemployment, poverty and exploitation and which leave workers without any possibility of defending their lives and those of their families.
madam president, we regret that the emphasis on liberalising services at european union level continues to be ignored, despite the widening gap between the economies of the member states. in general, freedom of establishment means that economic and financial groups from the more developed countries will more easily settle in countries with weaker economies, contributing to the destruction of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises and of employment, as is happening in portugal, in various sectors, particularly in the area of trade and services, in the area of large-scale business and in other sectors. we therefore challenge the european commission to rethink its strategy on the liberalisation of services in order to safeguard employment and development in member states with weaker economies.
madam president, the fundamental question that both the report and this debate have avoided is, after all, what are the causes of the so-called global imbalances, the real causes of the world economic and financial crisis. it is not by chance that they avoid this debate, but because they often seem to want to insist on and deepen the paths that have brought us here. the real causes of the crisis must be avoided if we are to continue down the same path of inequality, injustice and economic and social disaster. let there be no illusions, the crisis we are experiencing is a crisis of capitalism as the largely dominant economic system on a world scale. the solution to this crisis will not therefore come from supranational institutions whose aim is to ensure the conditions for the expansion of capitalist relations of production, riding on the sovereignty of the peoples, on democracy itself, to force capitalist accumulation, containing or crushing civilization's rights and achievements. the imf, the wto, the free movement of capital, trade liberalization and deregulation are all actors and scenes in a film we have seen, whose plot and outcome are dramatically familiar to us. the solution to the imbalances, i would say to the injustices at the global level, lies in breaking with this path, in breaking with these institutions, whose record has already shown that they are neither good people nor recommendable company.
madam president, the european institutions were right when they decided to set up the european semester. the coordination of budgetary policies is very relevant as a means of coordinating economic policies as well, but this good idea has had practical problems in terms of its implementation. the european semester requires real coordination between the different european institutions: the european parliament cannot be informed only by the internet, citizens did not vote for members who are mere e-mail addresses, they voted for members who represent their interests, and this is the first lesson to be borne in mind. but secondly, has the european semester made all the progress it can? the answer is no. the european institutions need speed, they need an effective response to the current crisis, and for that very reason i must say that the news that has been coming to light over the last week is worrying. in all honesty, i see more delays, i feel more indecision, and i hear about studies. europe does not need studies, it needs decisions for an effective economic government based on the european commission, controlled by the european parliament, which does not think only of national governments and thinks of the interests of all citizens of the european union.
madam president, the replies of the council representative on the gains made by the creation of the so-called european semester, aimed at permanent and undemocratic surveillance and interference on the member states in drawing up their national budgets, clearly demonstrate the central objectives of this political process of centralization of power in the service of economic and financial groups. what is happening in portugal is a clear example of this. it has been decades since there has been such a frontal and profound attack on social and labour rights, with a state budget proposal aimed at severe wage cuts, a brutal reduction in the purchasing power of the population and the social functions of the state, the increase in the working week by two and a half hours without any compensation to workers and the general impoverishment of the population, which will also lead to the closure of thousands of smes, the increase of social inequalities, unemployment and social exclusion to unbearable levels and scandals. this is what you 're after . (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, what we were told here today in the council declaration is that for technical reasons democracy would have to be sacrificed in the matter of the european semester, but what we are talking about is a political question and the question i ask is whether there can be political coordination without democracy? where is the scrutiny of the european parliament anyway? where is the scrutiny of national parliaments on their major budgetary options? but if the question were technical, as has been said here, then we are talking about a variable technique, because we know that the council has substantially eased the conditions for the four countries on the waiting list, france, italy, hungary and spain, but it has not done the same for the countries under bailout. so what kind of model of intergovernmental cooperation is this that allows germany to have opinions on portugal but does not allow portugal to have opinions on germany? and, commissioner, please, i just ask you to pay attention to this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a problem of info-exclusion, not a problem of democratic exclusion, and that is what we are talking about here.
the european semester is one of the tools created to strengthen economic governance in the eu. the aim is to coordinate macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance alongside the '6 pack' and the stability and growth pact, and thus achieve the eu2020 objectives. however, this first exercise of the european semester showed serious institutional flaws, since the european parliament was only informed of the recommendations by the commission and the amendments made by the council, without any right to political dialogue. the ep, as the representative of 500 million european citizens, cannot be consulted only, but must also be open to greater transparency and political debate, thus creating the necessary legitimacy for this instrument. i look forward to the evaluation of the european semester, only after the national budgets and the national reform programmes have been adopted, to re-examine the improvement of this mechanism in order to achieve the proposed objectives. i would like to reiterate once again the need for cooperation, for speed in decision-making, for the implementation of a genuine economic government based on the commission, with the control of the ep.
in writing. the lessons of the so-called european semester are discussed in this debate. and the first lesson might well be how to hide the causes of the crisis. the problem, we are told, is a lack of coordination. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. lesson two: shuffle and give again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the steel sector. it is in all this and for all this that they want to impose such coordination. i mean, in all that and for you what they've been doing so far, with known results. lesson number three: trample democracy. national governments and parliaments are reduced to a mere implementing function, as puppets of a power increasingly concentrated in a directory, which from brussels (or berlin) dictates the rules most suitable for the defence of its interests. in fact, the most important lesson is being taught at the moment by the peoples fighting for europe outside, rejecting this path and fighting for another path for europe and for their countries.
in writing. - i approve this report because an institution can seek approval of an amending budget during the financial year whenever a post is created or an appointment is made to a higher grade. i agree that some adjustments are called for in this amending budget to facilitate recruitment from the member states and to achieve the objective set out in the council decision that staff from the member states should represent at least one third of the total staff of the eeas in category ad, with temporary posts being converted into permanent posts. the european parliament has consistently supported adequate funding for the eeas. the staff policy of the latter, however, raises serious questions, particularly as regards the significant number of high-level posts to be created - in this area some restraint should be shown.
in writing. - the importance of the european external action service means that it deserves to be provided with an adequate budget to enable it to carry out its activities satisfactorily. without proper safeguards, the proper functioning of european foreign policy and the union's effective ability to be present in various parts of the world are called into question. however, doubts remain about the adequacy of its organisational structure to meet the challenges it faces. i hope that in the future this situation can be changed and that the eeas can become an efficient service and increasingly responsive to what is asked of it.
in writing. − this report, drawn up by ms helga trüpel, is the substance of draft amending budget (dab) no 5/2011 of the european union (eu), section ix european data protection supervisor (edps) and section x european external action service (eeas). considering that what is at stake is the mobility of an eu official whose appointment 'represents an exceptional circumstance for the edps', i am voting in favour of this draft amending budget, as i agree with the rapporteur's recommendation that the council's position be amended by updating the edps's establishment plan for 2011 in order to allow the appointment of an official to the next higher grade, thus complying with the staff regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community.
in writing. - we know that the creation of the european external action service (eeas) was a key element in the deepening of the capitalist, federalist and militarist integration of the european union. the eeas covers embassies in more than 120 countries and employs some 6000 staff. but despite our opposition to the existence of this institution, the labour rights of its employees must be protected. the report raises the question of the correction of the eeas budget with the aim of facilitating recruitment, professional reclassification and the conversion of temporary posts into permanent posts. we cannot object to the fact that, if the legal requirements are met, they are assigned a different category and career than they are at present. in this case, most vocational retraining is for a higher category. we welcome the fact that 40 temporary posts have been converted into permanent posts. the eu should lead by example in promoting employment stability and avoid hiring officials on temporary contracts.
in writing. − the report, adopted by an overwhelming majority of the members of the committee on budgets, concludes that the staff policy of the european external action service, in the context of the appointment of a large number of high-level posts, has not been conditioned by pressure from member states to create excess high-level posts solely to promote national civil servants. i have now overcome this fact, which was the main concern in this dossier, and i have voted in favour of this report. i support the rapporteur's call for the eeas to work towards curbing the creation of new high-level posts.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 5 seeks to amend the establishment plan of the data protection authority and the european external action service. the first point concerns the appointment of a new member of the edps. in this context, the position of the rapporteur is to be followed when she considers it excessive to consider that the appointment of a new member is part of the definition of exceptional circumstances justifying the request for an amending budget. the european external action service was also asked to revise its staffing structure. following consultations with the european parliament, the suspicion that high-level posts were being created for members from national administrations was not confirmed in the light of the information gathered. in this context, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission's proposals for an amending budget for the european data protection supervisor and the european external action service were adopted by the council, which considered the amendments necessary as regards recruitment, change of professional posts and promotions in the european external action service. this will have an annual cost of €1.4 million. however, as this will only be in force for part of 2011, no additional appropriations will be needed for this purpose and from 2012 onwards the draft budget will already take this into account. these proposals were accepted by the european parliament's committee, which recommends some restraint in the future creation of new posts. the changes required for the european data protection supervisor, proposed by the council to promote him to a higher post on the basis of exceptional circumstances, were rejected by the european parliament, which thus intends to prevent such changes from being possible every year on that basis alone. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, in accordance with the discharge procedure.
in writing. − after the postponement of the discharge of the accounts of the epa last april, this parliament is now doing so, recognising that steps have been taken to correct the deficiencies and serious irregularities found in the implementation of the 2009 budget.
in writing. - this report, by georgios stavrakakis, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college (epc) for the financial year 2009, a case which was already presented to this parliament in april 2010 but whose discharge was postponed due to the detection of serious deficiencies and irregularities. since the doubts raised have been satisfactorily clarified by the new management and governance of the epo, i am in favour of closing the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2009. i also welcome the review of the academy's financial regulation and the effort to reduce its esp financial costs.
in writing. − this report is based on another report by the committee on budgetary control which approves, by a majority, the closure of the annual accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2009, but makes some expenditure corrections. the committee concluded that there were serious indications of a containment of expenditure. indeed, the academy's efforts to reduce expenditure were demonstrated by the 25th meeting of its board of directors in june 2011, at which it was decided to abolish all its committees by 2012 and to undertake a critical review of all its working groups. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - after reservations were expressed in previous financial years regarding the accounts of the european police college, the report stresses the efforts made by the latter to strengthen the mechanisms for ensuring the transparency of its activities. this is a point which the european parliament - in exercising its budgetary control, which is its task under the treaties - has always considered essential. in this context, and in view of the recent efforts made, i voted in favour of granting discharge for the implementation of the 2009 budget.
in writing. − the european police college (epc) was established in 2001 and has been treated as a community body within the meaning of article 185 of the general financial regulation, to which the agency's framework financial regulation applies, since 1 january 2006. in its report on the accounts of the epo for the years 2008 and 2009, the court of auditors made a reservation on the legality and regularity of the operations, which led the european parliament (ep) to postpone the decision to grant discharge for the implementation of the financial year 2009. in response to the request made by the ep, the management of the academy has taken further measures to correct its budgetary deficiencies and thus agrees with this decision to give the director of the epo discharge in respect of the implementation of the academy's budget for the financial year 2009. i would also like to point out that the new procedures for awarding contracts, the rules applicable to the costs of organising courses and the analysis of the appropriations used to finance private expenditure will make the management of the epb budget more rigorous.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, in accordance with the discharge procedure.
in writing. − after the postponement of the discharge of the emea's accounts last april, this parliament is now doing so, recognising that, in accordance with the letter of the emea's board of directors of 17 june 2011, the emea has taken steps to correct the deficiencies of 2009. i would like to remind you that the persistent violation of the financial regulation must not and will not be tolerated and i urge that the previous resolutions which accompanied other decisions to postpone and consequently approve discharge be respected.
in writing. − the european medicines agency was established by regulation (ec, euratom) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 and is covered by the framework financial regulation established by commission regulation (ec, euratom) no 2343/2002 of 19 november 2002. this report, by georgios stavrakakis, is intended to provide an overview of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. on 10 may 2011, the parliament agreed to postpone the decision to grant the executive director of the agency discharge for the implementation of the financial year 2009, as the report drawn up by the court of auditors expressed doubts as to the legality and regularity of compliance with the financial regulation as regards the underlying operations. having regard to the letter of the executive director of 10 august 2011 in response to the questions raised during the debate on the discharge to the agency for 2009 at the meeting of parliament's committee on budgets on 13 july 2011,
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament gives discharge to the european medicines agency for the financial year 2009. i support the rapporteur in his admonition to the agency that all the points mentioned in the audit reports, including the one for 2010, be fully corrected before the next discharge procedure starts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution granting discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009, taking account of the assumptions made in that regard. i would like to stress, however, the need for all the agency's activities to be guided by the principle of transparency, particularly in public procurement procedures. indeed, it is not without suspicion that the agency has not carried out the necessary checks to reduce, in a given range of circumstances, the risk of error in insolvency proceedings, as the court of auditors has found. i hope that the necessary efforts will be made in the future to reduce the number of conflicts of interest so that the guarantees of consumer protection are not potentially jeopardized.
in writing. − established in 1995, the european medicines agency (ema) is a decentralised body of the european union which aims to protect and promote public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. the ema is the agency responsible for the scientific evaluation of applications for marketing authorisation for medicinal products submitted at european union level. in 2009, the ema's budget was €194 million, 18.52% of which was financed by the european union, with the remainder coming from fees paid by pharmaceutical companies for services provided. in its report on the 2009 accounts of the ema, the court of auditors made a reservation on the legality and regularity of the operations, which prompted the european parliament to postpone the decision to grant discharge for the implementation of the 2009 financial year. i agree with the decision to grant the executive director of the ema discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2009 and i agree with the closure of its accounts for the financial year 2009, given that the ema has provided the discharge authority with updated information on the level of implementation of the internal audit service's recommendations.
in writing. - i approve this report. in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, and in particular point 4 thereof, the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has unanimously concluded, and i subscribe to it, that the proposal is limited to a pure and simple codification without any change in the substance of the acts to which it relates.
in writing. - the acquis communautaire is often complex, difficult to understand and not always easy to grasp in its entirety. the comprehensibility of legislation is a constant concern of the various european institutions, and as a jurist i cannot help sharing this concern. this resolution concerns the codification of the existing rules without any amendment to them, and therefore it is not subject to reservations or controversial material and therefore deserves my support.
in writing. - the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 recommended the use of an accelerated working methodology for the official codification of european community legislative texts. this report, drawn up by antonio lópez-iztúriz white, concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the installation of tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers. since this proposal concerns only a pure and simple codification of the texts in question, without any change in their substance, which is an added value in legal terms and has been adopted by several european institutions in accordance with the recommendations of the consultative group of the legal services of the ep, the council and the commission, i fully agree with this report.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which concluded that the proposal in question was merely a codification of existing texts without any substantive changes, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - as the directive aims at codifying previous diplomas which are scattered (with advantages in terms of accessibility and familiarity with the legislation), without any changes being made in the material aspects, i voted in favour.
in writing. − in order to simplify and ensure clarity and transparency in european union law, this report on tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and their installation on such vehicles meets the objective of codifying eu legislation. this report brings together the various acts on this subject in their entirety, preserving the content of the codified acts in their entirety. the technical requirements for motor vehicles and their trailers, as regards tyres, are thus aimed at approximating the laws of the member states for the purpose of the type-approval procedure. in this way, union law is made more accessible and understandable to european citizens, who can fully enjoy their rights.
in writing. − i support this report, considering that an area of freedom, security and justice, as enshrined in the treaties, must meet the needs of citizens and businesses, for example by creating clearer and simpler procedures, while improving access to justice, so as to adequately protect individual substantive rights and to regulate conflicts between the parties. i would stress that any approach to adr should go beyond consumer disputes to include civil and commercial transactions between companies, whether private or public, family disputes, defamation cases and other disputes of general interest or between parties with different legal status.
in writing. − alternative dispute resolution avoids the use of courts, helping consumers and traders to resolve disputes through the intervention of a third party, mediator or arbitrator, providing a quick and cost-effective alternative to legal action. this report calls on the commission, in cooperation with the member states, to carry out information campaigns to make consumers and businesses aware of the benefits of using them. it also suggested that the commission should set up a multilingual european portal on alternative dispute resolution on the internet, where consumers could find out how it works and their rights and obligations. finally, it underlines the crucial role they play in family disputes, as by reducing psychological damage they can help the parties to re-establish dialogue and thus help to ensure the protection of children. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − a genuine area of freedom, security and justice can only exist if the fundamental right of access to justice is properly safeguarded, in particular through clear, simple and accessible procedures. alternative dispute resolution (adr) seems to me to be likely to be a quick and cost-effective alternative to the current judicial practice. it is important to strengthen citizens' confidence in the internal market and in the enforcement of rights in international disputes by adopting the necessary legislative measures to ensure the uniform development of these systems throughout the eu. a balanced approach between the use and flexibility of adr systems on the one hand and the guarantee of the protection of consumers' rights and their access to fair, confidential, impartial, transparent, prompt and effective procedures on the other hand should therefore be safeguarded, which will undoubtedly bring benefits to the eu economy. it is also important to ensure regular monitoring and evaluation of adr entities by independent evaluators. in parallel, awareness-raising campaigns and pilot projects are being carried out to ensure that appropriate information is provided to businesses and consumers in general.
in writing. − those who know the courts of the member states are aware of the increasing difficulty they are having in ensuring the timely resolution of disputes brought before them. the complexity of procedural laws and the number of cases in court have overwhelmed judges, magistrates, lawyers and court officials who, despite their competence and dedication, find it impossible to address all disputes in a timely manner. many of these issues currently flooding the courts are not of particular legal complexity or economic importance and can be resolved through alternative dispute resolution methods that prove to be more effective and less complex. there are many examples of such facilities operating across the union. i do not think that we should try to impose models on the member states in relation to these mechanisms, but rather to provide them with information on the practices and experiences of each country so that they can improve their mechanisms.
in writing. − sustainable economic growth to end the economic and financial crisis facing the european union has been one of the commission's main objectives. in the work programme for 2011 and in the communication of 13 april 2011, the commission, responding to the request of the ep to present a legislative proposal by the end of 2011 on the use of alternative dispute resolution (adr) mechanisms in the eu, identified adr as one of the 12 levers for strengthening consumer confidence and capacity to act. this report on adr in civil, commercial and family matters contains a set of proposals aimed at making access to justice for european citizens through a conciliation process quicker, more accessible and cheaper. in addition to their cross-border nature, adrs should be executed online, as online purchases are growing exponentially. i welcome the possibility of extending adrs to smes. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that very soon all member states will be able to transpose the adr framework directives into national legislation.
in writing. - the report on alternative dispute resolution in civil, commercial and family matters which was voted on today includes an analysis of alternative dispute resolution, particularly at cross-border level, which we consider to be positive, given the scarcity of information on forms of judicial intervention in this area. these alternative forms may enable the parties to avoid the lengthy and often costly appeals to the courts. these are forms of mediation and arbitration that in many cases are related to trade, consumer, environmental or family disputes. they can therefore have quick and cost-effective alternative processes and ways to resolve conflicts through the intervention of another element (mediator or arbitrator). given the way in which public authorities, including legal services and other bodies, play an important role in many countries in encouraging the settlement of disputes without recourse to judicial channels, we see this as a positive way forward.
in writing. - considering that alternative dispute resolution methods, which enable the parties to avoid traditional arbitration procedures, are likely to constitute a quick and cost-effective alternative to legal action, i voted in favour of this report. i support the commission's intention to encourage the use of alternative dispute resolution methods which are accessible, fast, effective and low-cost, with benefits for all parties when compared to current judicial practice.
in writing. - from the community's point of view, the proper functioning of the judicial institutions is indispensable for citizens' confidence in the single market. the eu's action has thus long sought to prevent the existence of highly differentiated legal systems from creating a gap in accountability which in essence contributes to increasing mistrust between citizens in the various member states. these difficulties have been exacerbated by the volume of cases which courts in all member states have been faced with. in short, in addition to the fact that we are faced with very different legal systems, the judicial machinery itself has been operating less and less efficiently. alternative dispute resolution means can play an important role in this context: in the present case, the court of first instance has not yet ruled on the question of the interpretation of article 2 of the sixth directive. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that these means of dispute settlement contribute to citizens' confidence in the justice system.
in writing. − the european parliament voted today on its report on alternative dispute resolution in civil, commercial and family matters, in response to the consultation launched by the european commission on this subject to examine the possibility of developing a harmonised legislative framework in these areas, while maintaining the existing frameworks. i believe that alternative dispute resolution is a possibility to be considered and that its potential has not yet been fully exploited. in addition, online transactions require effective and appropriate dispute resolution and therefore merit particular attention in the implementation of alternative modes. such alternative dispute resolution methods are less costly, faster and offer practical solutions and fewer formalities, making them more attractive to citizens. in particular, as regards consumer protection, such mechanisms are of great importance for the proper functioning of the european internal market, as they allow for the effective application of the rules and capture the confidence of consumers and businesses.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, in accordance with the discharge procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2009, section ii council. i regret that parliament has not received all the necessary information as the institution responsible for the discharge decision for the implementation of the general budget of the european union and i consider it necessary to deepen interinstitutional cooperation in this area in order to improve the transparency of public accounts.
in writing. - once again, this parliament is forced to refuse to give the secretary-general of the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009. the decision now adopted reflects once again the council's persistent lack of cooperation in the implementation and transparency of its budget. in the interests of transparency and the rigour required of the citizens, i do not consider that the council is exempt from its responsibility to give an account to the public of the funds placed at its disposal.
in writing. − according to the european transparency initiative, european citizens have a right to know how taxpayers' money is spent and how political bodies exercise the power vested in them. under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament exercises its political control over the institutions of the european union by granting discharge on the basis of reports drawn up by the court of auditors. the present report, drawn up by mr crescencio rivellini, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2009 section ii council, and its submission has already been postponed once because the ep had not received a set of answers to previously asked questions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. - parliament refused for the second time to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009. the basis for this refusal is a dispute between the council and parliament, in which parliament has repeatedly accused the council of not receiving the information necessary for the full exercise of its power to monitor the implementation of the budget. parliament considered that the council's expenditure should be examined in the same way as that of the other institutions, but that the council had not provided the necessary elements for a rigorous examination, thus undermining the necessary transparency of budget implementation. during the first plenary debate, the council presented additional documents requested by parliament and the presidency of the council participated in the plenary debate on the discharge for the financial year 2009. however, the discharge decision was postponed because parliament did not receive answers on a number of outstanding issues. now, following this formal refusal, the council is expected to make itself available to provide all the information and documents requested.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in which the european parliament refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009, as there are still documents to be presented. i agree with the need to improve transparency in the application of union law and with the right of european citizens to be better informed. i support the wish expressed by the european parliament to reach agreement with the council as soon as possible on the correlation tables for the discharge procedure for the implementation of the general budget of the european union. the scrutiny of the accounts of all the union institutions is vital to the credibility of all its bodies.
in writing. - the implementation of the community budget is, and should be, subject to the control of the european parliament as the assembly of the representatives of the european citizens. this requires more than a merely passive attitude on the part of the community institutions: on the contrary, it presupposes a climate of cooperation in which the european parliament, by virtue of its direct democratic legitimacy, plays a leading role. in this context, it is justified not to grant discharge while a set of questions which it considers essential for the granting of discharge is still pending. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european transparency initiative stresses that citizens have the right to know how the taxes they pay are used and how the power they give to political bodies is exercised, and it is clear that the european institutions must improve transparency in the application of union law. in accordance with articles 316, 317 and 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the european parliament has granted discharge to all the accounts of the union for the financial year 2009, including those of the council. i agree with the proposal to refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2009, as a formal meeting between representatives of the council and the committee of parliament responsible for the discharge procedure is necessary. the council should also send all the documentation requested by the european parliament, as this is the only way to ensure a rigorous and transparent examination of these accounts. i also believe that the european parliament should make a political assessment of the financial management of the institution during the year under review, thus ensuring that public money is properly managed and spent in the eyes of the citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the application of emission stages to narrow gauge tractors, as independent studies and commission data indicate that more time is needed to allow manufacturers to develop systems which comply with the requirements of directive 2000/25/ec. i welcome the introduction of a provision for the commission to report annually to the european parliament and the council on the progress in the development of technical solutions with a view to achieving the objectives of the eu's policy on reducing pollutant emissions.
in writing. − environmental protection is a duty for all and must be given priority in a responsible political agenda. i support the reduction of toxic gas emissions into the atmosphere wherever possible and i hope that we can move towards industrial production and the operation of vehicles, technologies and machinery which are ever less polluting. however, too sudden changes and too harsh requirements in the way machines and vehicles operate can threaten jobs and the viability of many businesses and farms. the right balance must therefore be struck between conflicting interests, bearing in mind that people and the maintenance of their activities are not separable from the environment around them. in the present case, this balance was achieved by giving manufacturers more time to develop more environmentally sound systems.
in writing. − this report concerns a commission proposal to postpone deadlines laid down in directive 2000/52/ec concerning compression ignition engines with a power of between 18 kw and 560 kw intended for installation on agricultural or forestry tractors. this directive sets emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matter. the directive sets progressively lower limit values for the successive phases corresponding to the various dates set for the adaptation of the maximum emission levels for exhaust gases and particulate matter. the next stages established are stages iiib (starting on 1 january 2011) and iv (starting on 1 january 2014). in view of independent studies and the data compiled by the commission showing that more time is needed to allow manufacturers to develop systems that are in line with phase iv, i understand the need to postpone the start date of phases iiib and iv for tractors in categories t2, c2 and t4.1 by 3 years.
in writing. - this directive covers compression ignition engines with a power of between 18 kw and 560 kw, intended for installation on agricultural or forestry tractors. it aims to set emission limit values for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter, which were changed in 2005 without any specific impact assessment on the technical feasibility of this application. to achieve the level of compliance with these values, it is necessary to install after-treatment systems in the engine compartment which, due to their large size in comparison with the engine, cause technical problems and do not ensure the correct operational performance of the tractor. the commission considers that more time is needed to enable manufacturers to develop compliant systems and therefore proposes to postpone the obligation to comply with the requirements of stages iiib and iv for tractors of categories t2, c2 and t4 by 3 years. 1. the proposal is reasonable. the reduction of emissions of air pollutants for better air quality is certainly an important objective, which we are fighting for. measures to achieve this include research and technological development, but also incentives for the agricultural sector to exchange and acquire up-to-date low-emission technologies, particularly from small and medium-sized farmers.
in writing. the directive to which this report refers concerns compression ignition engines with a power of between 18 kw and 560 kw intended for installation on agricultural or forestry tractors. it aims to set emission limit values for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter, which were changed in 2005 without any specific impact assessment on the technical feasibility of this application. to achieve the level of compliance with these values, it is necessary to install after-treatment systems in the engine compartment which, due to their large size in comparison with the engine, cause technical problems and do not ensure the correct operational performance of the tractor. the commission therefore considers that more time is needed to allow manufacturers to develop compliant systems and therefore proposes to defer the obligation to comply with the proposed requirements for 3 years. the offer is reasonable. the reduction of emissions of air pollutants for better air quality is certainly an important objective, which we are fighting for. measures to achieve this include research and technological development, but also incentives for the agricultural sector to exchange and acquire up-to-date low-emission technologies, in particular with small and medium-sized farmers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the application of emission stages to narrow-track tractors. i support the eu's policy of reducing emissions, but in the light of independent studies and data compiled by the commission which show that more time is needed to allow manufacturers to develop new systems, i agree with the commission's proposal to postpone by three years the start date of the new obligations on emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter.
in writing. − directive 2000/52/ec sets emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from compression ignition engines with a power output between 18 kw and 560 kw intended for installation on agricultural or forestry tractors. however, following the implementation process of the directive itself, it has been found that tractor manufacturers are not yet in a position to meet the requirements of stages iiib and iv. the extension of the adaptation period by three years is therefore justified. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − directive 2000/52/ec sets, in stages, the emission limits for carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons and particulate matter from agricultural and/or forestry tractors. however, this tax should take account of the specificities of the different types of tractor. the requirements requested in phases iib and iv affect the size of the vehicle and therefore its operability. this report thus meets the need to postpone the implementation of these two phases for three years to allow time for a more in-depth assessment of the impacts of this directive as well as technological developments in this field. the clarity and coherence of european union law will allow for better legislative quality and efficiency in implementation when transposed by the member states, and at the same time for better understanding by european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on engines placed on the market under the flexible regime, which provides for a transitional increase in this regime, because i believe that environmental legislation should be consistent with the eu's medium- and long-term environmental objectives, but that in the short term the activities of smes and the recovery from the economic crisis should also be supported.
in writing. − the use of non-road mobile machinery implies the emission of polluting gases which should be reduced in order to protect the environment and to ensure better living conditions for the citizens of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this flexibility must take account of the specific situation in the sector.
in writing. − this report concerns a commission proposal to make directive 97/68/ec more flexible, setting maximum levels for emissions of carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from engines of non-road mobile machinery. this report challenges the commission's view that manufacturers lose competitiveness if they comply with stricter environmental legislation. green innovation and low-emission technologies can only emerge with the help of a legislative framework to support them. only in this way will it be possible to achieve the eu 2020 objectives and enable the transition to a low-carbon society. it is essential to take steps forward, not backward. i agree with you that the global economic and financial crisis cannot be used as a reason for changing environmental standards. investments in environmentally friendly technologies are important for promoting growth, employment and health security in the future. i therefore take the view that this report takes account of environmental protection and safeguards, the development and competitiveness of industry, and is a balanced proposal which aims to mitigate as far as possible the impact of the current economic crisis on engine and machinery manufacturers.
in writing. the directive in question (97/68/ec) sets maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) for engines of non-road mobile machinery. this category includes various types of machinery, for example, for construction, agriculture and forestry, railway transport (locomotives and motor cars) and inland waterway vessels. it is noted that pm and nox emissions from this type of machinery represent respectively 7% and 16% of the total value. in order to ensure that the limits laid down in this directive are complied with in stages, a flexibility scheme has been introduced which allows manufacturers to replace engines gradually. according to the rapporteur, the engines in question are produced by only a small number of large companies. the european commission now proposes to extend the flexibility scheme, giving these companies more time to make the necessary replacements. the rapporteur was opposed to this outright, citing environmental and public health reasons, and proposed a much tighter regime. in the committee on the environment, it was possible to reach a consensus which, being more flexible than the rapporteur's initial proposal, is close to this one, restricting the margin of manoeuvre created by the european commission. we think it is a fair solution, and we have supported it.
in writing. − this directive lays down maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from engines of non-road mobile machinery. this category includes various types of machinery, for example, for construction, agriculture and forestry, railway transport (locomotives and motor cars) and inland waterway vessels. it is noted that pm and nox emissions from this type of machinery represent respectively 7% and 16% of the total value. in order to allow for a gradual compliance with the limits laid down in this directive, a flexibility scheme has been created which allows manufacturers to gradually replace engines. the rapporteur argues that the engines in question are produced by only a small number of large companies. the european commission now proposes to extend the flexibility scheme, giving these companies more time to make the necessary replacements. the rapporteur was opposed to this outright, citing environmental and public health reasons, and proposed a much tighter regime. the consensus reached in the committee on the environment is more flexible than the rapporteur's initial proposal, restricting the scope for manoeuvre open to the european commission, and we have therefore supported it.
in writing. the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 97/68/ec concerns the provisions applicable to engines placed on the market under the flexible arrangements. directive 97/68/ec is an important piece of union environmental legislation and has made a significant contribution, in particular to achieving the emission reductions envisaged. pm and nox emissions are the main source of air pollution from the sector. in this connection, and because i share the rapporteur's concerns about the commission's proposal to extend the flexibility scheme and postpone a reduction in emissions, i voted in favour of this report which mitigates these concerns.
in writing. − directive 97/68/ec set maximum emission levels for carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter from engines of non-road mobile machinery, resulting in a set of measures in union law aimed at the environmental protection and sustainability of the common space. in view of the technical adaptation effort involved in such a regulation, a system of flexibility was introduced, seeking to reconcile the objective of meeting the proposed targets with the need to provide a certain time-gap to allow firms to reshape their production processes. the european commission has, however, proposed an extension of the flexibility scheme, referring in particular to the difficulties facing industry as a result of the economic crisis. in the light of the rapporteur's report, i believe that the proposed model should not be abandoned, without prejudice to the possibility of extending the scope of the flexibility scheme in certain special cases. the general trend should be maintained, continuing the path towards reducing carbon emissions. on the other hand, it is a very appropriate way of rewarding companies which have invested in technological re-adaptation - reasons why i voted in favour.
in writing. - directive 97/68/ec is an important element in the field of the environment, since it sets maximum levels of emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides (nox) and particulate matter (pm) from engines of non-road mobile machinery. since nox and pm emissions are the main sources of air pollution, action is important in this sector. this directive was amended in 2004 to allow engine manufacturers a flexibility scheme in stages. manufacturers are thus allowed to place on the market a limited number of engines that meet the emission limits of the previous stage, 20% of the manufacturers' annual sales or a fixed number of machines, the latter for small producers. the report therefore seeks to approve the extension of the flexibility proposed by the commission. the 20% threshold is thus increased to 50% and the fixed number is also increased until december 2013. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that at this time of crisis, which is affecting the non-road mobile machinery industry, particularly the construction and agricultural sectors, we must support small and medium-sized producers. on the other hand, technological development has not accompanied this directive and we must therefore make provision for the necessary flexibilities.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the rapporteur's position that it supports measures to achieve a sustainable society based on a human rights-respecting approach. first, member states should not only sign and ratify the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its additional protocols, but also develop national disability policies and strategies in line with the european disability strategy adopted by the european commission and envisaged in the eu 2020 strategy. the commission's action plan for the period up to 2015, linked to the european disability strategy (eds), is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − the inclusion of the 80 million disabled people in the european union is of the utmost importance for the creation of a more active and sustainable society with regard to ageing in europe. inclusion, both in social and labour market terms, offers new opportunities for the future of employability in europe. disabled and older people can be the real answer to the future of employability in europe. because of the difficulty of mobility and communication solutions, people with disabilities are often unable to find training, education or employment opportunities. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that disability should be tackled differently. i also believe that it is necessary to promote accessibility barriers, special communication techniques for the deaf and hard of hearing, as well as to create new models of inclusive education systems.
in writing. − one in six eu citizens has a disability of some degree, and active and targeted policies are urgently needed to tackle the serious risks of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to which these people are exposed (the poverty rate of people with disabilities is 70% higher than the average). it is important to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive european growth, which necessarily includes structural improvements in mobility and the inclusion of people with disabilities. social policies for disabled people fall largely within the competence of the member states and it is essential that they support the adoption of measures and instruments appropriate to the needs of disabled people with a view to ensuring a higher level of autonomy, equal opportunities and active living for them. i believe in the importance of defining a new and effective approach to disability and promoting initiatives that address the needs of disabled people in terms of accessibility, equality, employment, education and training, social protection and health. i also support the creation of a more effective mechanism... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that financial investment in people with disabilities is a profitable and absolutely necessary investment in the medium and long term, as it contributes to the well-being of all and to a society based on sustainable foundations in which people can work more effectively and in better conditions. it is unacceptable that in the context of austerity measures unjustified cuts are made in services for people with disabilities or in projects aimed at their social inclusion.
in writing. - according to oecd figures, 80 million people with disabilities are potentially in poverty and 1 in 4 people with disabilities already lives in poverty, figures which the economic and financial crisis is likely to increase in the coming years. people with disabilities also end up being excluded from education systems, with only 44% of young people with disabilities entering secondary education in denmark, one of the most advanced member states in this field. this poor investment in their education and training is ultimately responsible for their poor integration into the world of work. it is urgent that barriers be removed and that member states pursue inclusive and non-discriminatory policies towards persons with disabilities, giving them the necessary framework for full participation in professional, working and family life.
in writing. − this report, by ádám kósa, deals with the mobility and integration of people with disabilities and the european disability strategy 2010-2020. the problems of the disabled and the defence of the rights of children and all those who are vulnerable have been the subject of particular attention by the european institutions in general and by the european parliament in particular. what is really at stake is the improvement of their quality of life. many are victims of social exclusion and the employment rate is very low among the efficient. some countries have implemented a set of good practices which need to be disseminated and replicated in other member states. fundamentally, we must improve their access to the labour market and conditions for mobility. it is necessary to invest in their education and vocational training by making use of the available structural funds. i congratulate the honourable member on the excellence of his report, which i voted in favour of, and on the concrete measures proposed. i am sure that in the very near future people with disabilities will participate more actively and with full rights in society. only then will we be able to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in full.
in writing. - this report undoubtedly contains some very positive proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the integration of disabled people into working life, civic life and society, but also to include a gender perspective in the new european disability strategy, which it supports. however, the usual declarations of good intentions without practical consequences and action plans and strategies without the means to implement them should be avoided. there is a need for clear timetables, adequate financial means and practical measures to promote the social inclusion of people with disabilities. in addition to a more general policy framework to make this possible, support is also needed for organisations representing disabled people and the relevant social role that many of them play. in other words, it is a very different picture from the current so-called austerity policies, from the neo-liberal orientations that violate the most elementary rights of people with disabilities, calling into question access to basic public services such as health, education, transport, energy, among others. all this is unfortunately ignored in the report.
in writing. - we consider that this report, which sets out the objectives to be integrated into the new european disability strategy, has very positive proposals, whether through proposals for the integration of people with disabilities into working, civic and social life, or through the concern for the integration of the gender perspective into the strategy. however, it is also necessary to develop community and national policies and strategies in the field of disability, which do not rely on a vague european commission action plan, without precise timetables, without adequate financial support, without practical measures and without coherent policies to facilitate the social inclusion of disabled people, or to provide adequate support to their organisations and take into account the enormous difficulties faced by many families of disabled people. the real consequences of austerity programmes and neoliberal policies on the most basic rights of disabled people are thus not examined in depth, which calls into question access to basic public services such as health, education, transport and energy. we also welcome the rejection of the amendment tabled by the ppe, which distorts the positive aspects of the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the mobility and integration of people with disabilities and the european disability strategy 2010-2020 because i agree with most of the concerns expressed by the european parliament. it should be noted that the financial expenditure and investment made in trying to establish decent social living conditions for people with disabilities is a fundamental issue of justice and human rights, and is a cost-effective long-term investment in the well-being of all and in a society built on sustainable foundations, where people can live longer and work more effectively in better conditions. in this sense, i am strongly opposed to unjustified cuts in services for disabled people or in projects aimed at their social inclusion in the context of public austerity measures, as this would represent a failure to guarantee the basic and inalienable rights of the disabled person.
in writing. − citizens with disabilities are not generally considered as available labour, which creates undeniable difficulties for their social integration. access to employment is a privileged way of achieving personal fulfilment and of acting autonomously in social life, and it cannot be left out of any strategy aimed at the social integration of disabled citizens. although they are a part of the population with very different characteristics, they have in common the capacity to work and the possibility of contributing to the common good. in this respect, a comprehensive policy of inclusion is required, as reflected in the document presented, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − the universal declaration of human rights, the european convention for the protection of human rights and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union stress that citizens with disabilities should have access to the same goods and services as other citizens, and that physical or social barriers that still exist should be removed. i agree with this report because it provides for the adoption of national policies and strategies targeted at the 80 million people, or approximately 16% of the total population of the european union, and is in line with the european disability strategy and the eu-2020 objectives. i believe that the civil and human rights of people with disabilities should be respected, and that it is appropriate to involve them in the consultation procedures launched by the european commission, to encourage exchanges on measures already adopted by the various member states, to strengthen solidarity between the generations of young people and to facilitate free movement without barriers. the aim is to provide society with a sustainable vision based on an approach that respects human rights. finally, i believe that the new measures must be accompanied by a precise and strict timetable, which will make it possible to monitor the implementation of the programme and take the necessary corrective measures where justified.
in writing. - i approve of this report mainly because of its component aimed at ensuring transparency, non-discrimination and competition security in the field of community law on public procurement. the commission should also present a separate regulation for service concessions and this should be limited to what is necessary in accordance with the most recent decisions of the cjeu. the scope should be defined in line with the services directive and its parliamentary treatment should be carried out in parallel with the revision of the procurement directives to prevent further legal fragmentation and ensure consistency. in this context, the legal certainty required for public-private partnerships would also have to be clarified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of public procurement policy because it proposes a reformulation of the criteria for the award of contracts, in order to favour the most advantageous tenders, not only in economic terms but also in social and environmental terms, taking into account the costs of the whole life cycle of the goods, services or works concerned. i believe that public procurement should drive the transition to a more sustainable economy and the achievement of the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - given that public procurement represents millions of euros annually, its economic importance cannot be called into question. for this reason, although there is a long tradition of community legislation on these same contracts, it will never be too late to call for better and more effective laws, ensuring full transparency of procedures, preventing all forms of corruption or manipulation of tenders for the benefit of a competitor, limiting to the maximum the number and value of contracts awarded without a competition or without negotiation, and guaranteeing effective competition in the internal market between competing undertakings, regardless of their country of origin. it should also be noted that in the field of electronic public procurement, portugal is a good example today, with all the gains that this represents in terms of simplification of procedures, efficiency and cost and time savings for both companies and public administrations, and transparency and accessibility.
in writing. − this report on the modernisation of public procurement policy comes as the 40th anniversary of the entry into force of the buildings directive, which was the first european legislation on public procurement. the advantages of implementing this legislation are indisputable in terms of transparency and lowering the price of contracted work, but we cannot say that all of these were positive aspects. in fact, transaction costs and outside counsel have gone up. in this time of crisis we need clear rules and transparency in the processes, qualification systems and electronic passes that make life easier for businesses, reduce costs and provide an incentive for modernisation. the objective of 50% of public procurement being carried out electronically by 2010 (with the exception of portugal) has been missed. it is not justified that companies should have to submit some 20 original documents for each call for tenders! efficiency needs to be increased through the use of the mail and the reinforcement of electronic templates. i therefore welcome this initiative to simplify, make more flexible and modernise public procurement policy and hope that it will benefit smes by reducing transaction costs and allowing them access to tenders which they do not currently have.
in writing. - this report cannot be dissociated from the concrete conditions under which the process of european integration is taking place, its nature, its matrix characteristics and objectives. the very discussion of this subject in the committee on the internal market, which is considered to be competent on the subject, is indicative of what is intended: to open the way, fundamentally, to the major european economic groups to a market worth about 17% of the eu's overall gdp - the public procurement market. everything else is not enough to conceal this intention. including all the rhetoric around social and environmental principles to be taken into account in public procurement. while it is true that public procurement must take full account of these principles of maximising social welfare and protecting the environment (when we talk about the use of public money, the pursuit of the common good must necessarily be a primary concern), it cannot be ignored, as we said in the plenary debate, that the perspective of commercial opening as stated in this report is not the best way of ensuring that these principles are observed. the suggestion and the challenge we put forward during the debate remain: to orient public procurement, particularly in the member states which are currently facing the greatest difficulties, towards national preference.
in writing. − public procurement must take account of principles such as maximising social welfare or protecting the environment, and so the purchase of goods and services by public authorities using public funds must respond effectively to the needs of the citizens of each member state, while ensuring that criteria of economic, social and environmental sustainability are respected. however, the creation and development of a european public procurement market, under the concrete conditions in which the integration process is currently taking place, does not ensure these objectives. the main aim of this initiative is to open the way for large european economic groups to a market worth some 17% of the eu's total gdp. however, given the current imbalances within the eu and the very serious situation facing the weakest economies, public procurement in these member states could be geared towards national preference, stimulating domestic production, the activities of smes and shorter supply chains - more socially and environmentally sustainable - thus becoming an important instrument of economic recovery, serving the essential growth and development, and allowing overcoming the deficits and bottlenecks that are facing today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on modernisation in the field of public procurement. in fact, european public procurement legislation is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year. i believe that now is the right time to take stock and analyse where the successes and failures of european procurement policy lie. the new rules should be based on the original essence of the first degree: the guarantee of transparency, non-discrimination and certainty of competition.
in writing. - public procurement legislation is one of the areas where the intervention of union law is most limited and also one with the longest tradition, as this year marks the 40th anniversary of the first legislative intervention. this is an area where any effective intervention of union law can produce results that are advantageous to the economy. it benefits not only freedom of competition but also taxpayers in general, in that it makes transparency the central feature of the public procurement process. however, the highly technical nature of this field has increased so-called transaction costs, i.e. the costs that candidates have to bear in a public procurement process (e.g. in legal advice) to submit an application. the future of this legislation must therefore be simplified. in another respect, the path towards greater flexibility is justified: instead of the best price, the best solution prevails. i voted in favour of this view because i agree with it.
in writing. − the european commission launched the green paper on the modernisation of eu public procurement policy entitled towards a more efficient public procurement market in europe arguing that public procurement should play a key role in the eu 2020 strategy and ensure the most efficient use of public funds. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the european public procurement market must remain open throughout the eu, contribute to the new european challenges, promote competition and stimulate business innovation. i believe that member states should make further efforts to achieve greater transactions in electronic procurement services. i think it is important to adopt mechanisms to prevent and combat corruption, and some legal concepts that are still in doubt should be clarified. the rules should be simplified to allow for more flexible procedures in public procurement. i also believe that the price criterion should not be the overriding factor in the award of contracts, but that the criterion of the economically most advantageous tender in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits should be adopted. i would like to associate myself with a better use of public funds and with investments that have a high long-term return for the younger generations. the following table shows the number of the member states:
in writing. - i welcome this report in that, in order to gain a rigorous understanding of the current situation and of future developments in labour markets, the european commission's positive efforts towards effective implementation and support for worker mobility must be strengthened. this requires a further analysis of the infringement procedures addressed to non-compliant member states, of trends in occupational mobility in terms of competences, sectors and geographical areas, and the presentation of a comprehensive, multidisciplinary and long-term mobility strategy aimed at analysing and removing all existing legal, administrative and practical obstacles to the free movement of workers. given the current situation, the economic reasons for opening up labour markets have never been more pressing. i would like to stress that excessive protectionism in terms of labour mobility will lead to a growing separation between member states and a feeling of distrust which could affect the eu's performance as a global actor and could even weaken its competitive position. the time has come for the member states of europe to work and grow together.
in writing. − the right to live and work in another member state is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu and is a basic element of european citizenship enshrined in the treaties. in fact, better transposition and implementation of the existing directives on the free movement of workers is needed, given that legal, administrative and practical obstacles remain to the full implementation of this fundamental freedom. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the need to promote information strategies on the rights of migrant workers and to simplify the administrative procedures relating to the exercise of the free movement of workers. better coordination between social protection systems is also needed to ensure that social rights acquired in advance are recognised. it is essential to strengthen the current legal framework for the recognition of academic and professional qualifications. the geographical mobility of young people should be promoted through learning mobility programmes and the teaching of foreign languages should be actively promoted. finally, i would stress the importance of the eures network in promoting the mobility of workers in the eu by providing information on job vacancies, information on vocational education and training opportunities and on living and working conditions.
in writing. - i believe that the restrictions in some member states on access to the labour markets for bulgarian and romanian citizens should be removed by the end of this year. i believe that these obstacles are counterproductive and discriminatory measures against european citizens. as long as there are no negative effects of labour mobility, there is no socioeconomic basis for maintaining barriers to entry into a new labour market. official data, including data from the european commission, show that eastern european workers have not generated unemployment or put pressure on social security systems. on the contrary, the flow of these workers has generated economic growth in the destination countries, estimated at about 1% of gdp. i voted in favour of this report because i regret the recent legislative proposals by some member states to weaken the rights of workers from the countries that joined the eu in 2004 and 2007, and i urge the commission to investigate whether these policies violate european law.
in writing. − eu citizens and their family members have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. living and working in another member state is a fundamental right of every european citizen, although statistics show that very few people currently enjoy it (2.3%). the mobility of workers is of an important socioeconomic nature both for the eu and for the member states, and also contributes positively to the pursuit of the employment objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. there are still a number of obstacles and restrictions to the full exercise of this fundamental freedom which, by infringing this right, also end up hindering the recovery of eu economies and may have counterproductive effects such as the increase in illegal work and the exploitation of workers and an expansion of the shadow economy. support the promotion of occupational mobility, based on a comprehensive, multidisciplinary and long-term strategy that eliminates all existing legal, administrative and practical obstacles to the free movement of workers. i stress the need to develop a coherent, efficient and transparent policy, focusing on labour market needs and economic trends, to strengthen solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states, and to define a clear legal regime on legal migration.
in writing. - the principle of free movement has been one of the great achievements of the european union as a union of states and peoples. it translates the ideas of freedom of movement for workers, establishment and provision of services between the different member states, which reinforce the notions of cooperation, solidarity and progress and are concepts which must therefore be deepened and continually improved. i believe that the free movement of european citizens, when motivated by employment issues, is a right which we have as european citizens. i therefore believe that policies should be designed to protect european citizens who choose to change. with well-implemented legislative frameworks for labour mobility, the citizen gains on the one hand, because of the facilitating conditions he finds, and on the other, the host country, because of the simplified integration into its national labour context. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because of its relevance and the ideas it contains.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that certain member states should remove, by the end of this year, the restrictions on access to their labour markets for bulgarian and romanian citizens. these obstacles are counterproductive and constitute discriminatory measures against european citizens.
in writing. − mobility is increasingly a value to be taken into account in contemporary economies and, in particular, in an area where the free movement of people and goods is in force, such as the european union. despite this essential freedom, few europeans still enjoy it, practicing their professions in states other than their own. there are some known obstacles to the mobility of europeans which must be removed. the european union and the member states have a joint responsibility to seek to promote the mobility of workers and businesses in the european area and to remove the remaining obstacles. in the face of the crisis the union is currently going through, european workers and their families, as well as host countries, have much to gain if they are not burdened with administrative requirements and can instead enjoy freedom of movement, establishment and the exercise of their professions.
in writing. - with the enlargement of the european union to include the peoples of the east, many citizens from these countries have turned to the west in search of better living conditions, especially higher wages. however, some member states, fearing increased insecurity, have closed their borders to these european citizens. this own-initiative report by traian ungureanu focuses on the mobility of workers within the eu and is based on the principle agreed by all member states that the movement of people and goods is an inalienable right. any eu citizen has the right to seek work in the west. moreover, it is necessary to demystify the idea that the influx of these workers is negative, not only because they contribute to european integration, especially at a time when there is a shortage of labour in some sectors, but because they represent a 1% growth in the gdp of the host member state. i therefore vote in favour of this report which calls for an end to the legislative proposals which are damaging to the rights of eu citizens.
in writing. − this report advances a set of guidelines to encourage the mobility of workers across europe. the perspective with which it does so is not, however, neutral. this movement of labour is encouraged with a view to forcing the labour force of different countries to compete with each other, forcing their devaluation and levelling them below working conditions. it is not for nothing that the report, along with guidelines for mobility, makes a point of the need to strengthen the application of flexicurity. the report does not deal with such essential issues as collective bargaining and the question of wages in the countries of origin and of destination. the question of brain drain, which is likely to intensify with the deep crisis in the eu's weaker economies, is also not being properly addressed. mobility cannot therefore be seen as the most effective solution to the problem of unemployment - as this report does. the view underlying the whole report and the view of the use of the eu's approximately 25 million unemployed imposes on the remaining workers a further devaluation of the labour force, generalising precariousness, intermittent employment and structural unemployment.
in writing. - this report contains guidelines which seek not only to strengthen the conditions for the application of flexicurity but also to send a positive signal and encourage the distribution of workers throughout europe, always in defence of a position which is more in the interest of capitalism than of workers, who are placed in competition with each other. so what we have, in general, is social dumping and other harmful consequences of this unwanted migration. despite some positive measures, which are generally nothing more than palliative aid, the report never considers the problem of unemployment and migration as a result of the neoliberal system and policies followed, nor the question of collective bargaining and wages in the host countries. on the contrary, it classifies the mobility of workers as the most effective solution to the problem of unemployment. influenced by the europe 2020 strategy and its instruments, the old policies are justified and made viable with the known consequences: labour flexibility and deregulation and the primacy of deepening the internal market through the liberalization and privatization of even more economic sectors. the 25 million unemployed are being used to impose on the rest of the workforce a further devaluation of the labour force, generalising precariousness, intermittent employment and structural unemployment, a wrong path which this report seeks to deepen.
in writing. - this report deals with the promotion of worker mobility. i agree with the conclusions, particularly as regards the need to strengthen the positive efforts of the european commission towards effective implementation and support for worker mobility. given the current environment, the economic reasons for the opening up of labour markets have never been more obvious. excessive protectionism in terms of labour mobility will induce a growing separation between member states and a feeling of distrust that could affect the eu's performance as a global actor and could even weaken its position on a competitive scale. i agree with the rapporteur that it is time for the member states to work and grow together.
in writing. - the free movement of workers is one of the great flags of eu law. the experience gained in the member states since then shows that the initial fears that free movement would affect access to employment for nationals are unfounded. in fact, it has been seen as a key way of balancing supply and demand, in other words, as an added value for the functioning of the common market. in view of this finding that free movement brings value to the single market, it is necessary, on the one hand, to reduce the artificial barriers to it. on the one hand, it is justified to strengthen, a priori, the information available to community citizens about the state to which they intend to emigrate, and on the other hand, a posteriori, to ensure that the states of arrival put at the disposal of immigrants the appropriate instruments for successful integration. i voted in favour of this guideline.
in writing. the free movement of workers is one of the basic principles of the entire history of the european internal market. this principle has gradually evolved over the last 40 years and is now enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in its communication on reaffirming the free movement of workers, the european commission refers to all nationals of the 27 member states who work in a member state other than their state of origin, including their family members. however, some categories such as posted workers, workers from third countries, selfemployed workers and volunteers are not included. the issue of labour migration in the european union is considered a potential factor for imbalances in national labour markets, as, although it is considered a right, it is possible for member states to maintain barriers to the free movement of workers on a temporary basis, with regard to the opening of their labour markets to nationals of the new member states. although overall the movement of workers is positive for the whole of the european union, it is essential that additional measures are taken such as adaptation to new languages, recognition of diplomas, better information and further administrative simplification.
in writing. - i approve the report. the working sessions with country groups should continue to be used in mutual evaluation processes. however, the composition of each group should be discussed more exhaustively with the member states in order to take into account their expectations and, in particular, the impact on the single market. the rapporteur, like myself, also believes that the transparency of the process needs to be improved. without prejudice to a certain degree of confidentiality, which appears to be necessary to promote discussions between member states' administrations, it is important to make regular reports available to interested parties.
in writing. − the services directive, adopted in 2006, remains a vital instrument for the establishment of a fully functioning single market for services. the mutual evaluation procedure provided for in article 39 of the services directive is new. the aim is to assess the state of the single market in services after the implementation of the directive. the report calls on the commission to ensure maximum transparency in this assessment and invites the commission to present its conclusions to parliament as soon as they are available. it called on the commission to raise awareness among all member states in order to ensure the full and correct transposition and application of the services directive at national level. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to consumers. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the mutual evaluation process of the services directive because i believe that the implementation of the services directive is very important. the implementation of the services directive could bring economic benefits of €140 billion and 1.5 per cent growth in eu gdp. for this reason, and given the economic situation europe is currently experiencing, i believe that this implementation is crucial for the economic growth of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the process of mutual evaluation of the services directive is essential to clarify ambiguous situations prevailing in the provision of services, both at national and cross-border level. i would like to emphasize the spirit of cooperation and mutual trust that prevailed during the discussions of the working sessions organized in groups of countries, which allowed for a better mutual knowledge of the administrations of the member states, contributing to improving the functioning of the internal market in services.
in writing. - as is well known, services account for one fifth of total eu internal trade but more than two thirds of gdp and employment, with activities covered by the services directive accounting for 40% of eu gdp and employment. a single market for services is therefore fundamental to the success of any european policy aimed at boosting growth, jobs and innovation, and preserving european competitiveness in a global world. however, the mutual evaluation has shown that further action is needed by the commission if the european economy is to benefit fully from the potential of the single market for services. in this respect, the commission will give priority to working with individual member states to ensure the correct and complete transposition and implementation of the directive throughout the european area.
in writing. − this report, by małgorzata handzlik, focuses on the mutual evaluation process under the services directive. this directive, adopted in 2006, was aimed at improving the functioning of the single market for services. although we consider this directive to be one of the best in recent years, the truth is that after two years, few member states have implemented it. this is why this report is important and why we need to make progress, not only with measures to improve it on the basis of the evaluation carried out, but also with its extension to other policy areas. in fact, nine out of ten jobs in the european union are in the service sector and its implementation should be mandatory, although monitoring by the commission and the member states is required to ensure that it is properly applied and that the freedom to provide services provided for in article 16 is respected. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that all member states will implement the services directive and the creation of efficient one-stop shops, as this is a key instrument in the functioning of a single market for services.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to take stock of the situation regarding the single market in services after the implementation of the services directive, putting pressure on the member states which have not yet done so to effectively transpose the directive. as in 2006, we strongly reject this directive and its transposition into national law. the transposition of this directive on the liberalization of services could have serious implications for several countries, particularly those with more fragile social situations, such as portugal. the aim is to advance the market in more and more areas of social life, by affecting sectors where the state has traditionally exercised its social function through public services. this is yet another attack on important achievements of civilization. liberalisation will increase unemployment, poverty and social inequalities, benefiting only large service companies and large economic groups, especially in the richest countries. we believe that each country should retain the sovereign right to decide on the public services it wants, on their public ownership, their way of functioning and organisation, the rights of their workers and users. this is a struggle which will continue in the face of the attempt to transpose this directive into national law.
(gue/ngl), in writing. − the report aims to assess the state of the single market in services after the implementation of the services directive and to put pressure on member states which have not yet done so to effectively transpose the directive. we recall that we reject this directive and we remain opposed to the unacceptable pressure being put on the member states to transpose it into national law. the transposition of this directive on the liberalization of services could have serious implications for a number of countries, particularly those with the most fragile social situations, and this could be even more serious in a crisis situation such as the one we are experiencing, particularly in portugal. even with all the care in the various member states, if immediate measures are not taken to defend social and labour rights and to protect the most vulnerable sectors, including in the areas of public services, we could have even more serious problems. liberalisation could increase unemployment, poverty and inequalities among the most vulnerable, to the benefit of only large service companies and economic groups, especially the richest countries. each country should retain the sovereign right to decide on the services it wants, including public services, their public ownership, way of functioning and organisation, the rights of its workers and users.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which examines the experience of the mutual evaluation process under the services directive and expresses general, albeit conditional, support for the application of this method in other policy areas. this report provides a reflection on the results and follow-up of the mutual evaluation for a better functioning of the single market in services. the overall assessment of the mutual evaluation process as a policy instrument is positive and i therefore support the extension of this procedure to other fields. however, this instrument should not proliferate unchecked, as it could easily become counterproductive and create a source of red tape with negative consequences for the union budget.
in writing. − the services directive introduced a mutual evaluation process to ensure the results of its application. the purpose of this monitoring is to identify how the directive has been applied in the member states, particularly in the implementation of relatively vague concepts which give national legislators a margin of discretion. in the present case, this analysis was limited to certain requirements for the application of the legislative text. this model deserves positive appraisal, as it provides a means of cooperation between elements of the various states, allowing the sharing of good practices and the joint resolution of additional difficulties that may arise in the meantime. it should be noted, however, that the effectiveness of this instrument is to a large extent due to its application being restricted to a small number of elements, otherwise the bureaucratic burden on national administrations would increase disproportionately. in the light of the foregoing, i have voted in favour.
in writing. - the internal market is one of the major objectives of the european union and its functioning must therefore be constantly improved. on the basis of the results of the mutual evaluation of the services directive, it is intended to analyse the problems which still remain and to define the benefits which can and should still be derived from this directive. the main problems identified relate to the non-full implementation of some rules which could contribute to the better functioning of the internal market in services and which have been adopted in recent years. there are also difficulties arising from the possibility for member states to reserve some service activities to certain specific operators, which translates into 8000 regulated professions in one or more member states. further action is therefore needed to help to exploit better the full potential of the internal market in services. the commission will develop an impact assessment of the services directive and should continue to work towards effective and correct transposition of the standards into the national laws of the member states.
in writing. - i welcome the measures taken to measure global imbalances, through a set of indicative guidelines against which a set of agreed indicators will be assessed, in order to reduce excessive and persistent macroeconomic imbalances and to maintain the current current account imbalances of countries at sustainable levels, in particular the external imbalance comprising the trade balance and the net balance of investment and transfer income flows. equally important is the commitment to strengthen multilateral cooperation with a view to concerted political action by all g20 members to enable strong, sustainable and balanced growth.
in writing. − global imbalances pose a potential threat to the financial and macroeconomic stability of major economies and may have repercussions on other economies. effective global economic governance will minimize the negative impacts and correct the dangerous effects of globalisation, such as the widening of inequalities or the destruction of the environment. this report, which i supported, calls for a more democratic, stronger and independent imf, with sufficient instruments and resources to enable it to pay greater attention to the interdependence of countries. it calls for the legitimacy of international institutions such as the imf and the g20 to be strengthened. it called on the g20 to conclude the debate on the global financial transaction tax. it also called on the basle committee on banking supervision to propose measures to limit retail banking. the commission is also asked to redefine the eu's trade and investment strategy to include the bric countries (brazil, russia, india and china) as major trading partners.
in writing. − global imbalances pose a potential threat to the financial and macroeconomic stability of major economies, especially when excessive, and may have repercussions in other economies. it must therefore address the imbalances resulting from structural deficiencies and the lack of competitiveness of the national economy, both in the surplus countries and in the deficit countries. i believe that a global perspective and a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, the sustainability of public finances and exchange rate flexibility based on key economic indicators are needed. i also believe that the world economy should be characterized by open markets for the mutual benefit of all participants. i voted in favour of this report because i believe in the positive effects of a strengthened framework of economic governance in the eu and the euro area with a view to cooperation and coordination at world level.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) − as this parliament has already adopted specific rules to improve economic governance in the eu and the euro area and to prevent and correct macroeconomic imbalances, this report stresses that global imbalances are a potential threat to financial and macroeconomic stability. it is in this sense that it points the way to global economic governance, so that we can recover from the economic and financial crisis and avoid facing the same problems again in the future. it therefore advocates a common approach to monetary policy, international trade, the sustainability of public finances and financial regulation and supervision, with the imf and the wto as the pillars of this coordination.
in writing. - economic, financial and trade problems are manifesting themselves on a global scale. if on the one hand there are developed countries with surpluses, on the other there are countries with serious shortages, especially in the area of foodstuffs. this situation calls for a change in the global economic governance. this report, by gunnar hökmark, analyses economic governance on a global scale and prepares the ground for the next g20 summit, a key forum for global consultation which replaces the g7 but suffers from a lack of representation of smaller countries. the eu must show at this summit that it has a key role to play in this governance by presenting a package of measures to boost the way out of the crisis. the demand for a higher level of transparency in international institutions, notably the imf, the guarantee of a trade flow for emerging economies and the adoption of structural correction measures are some of the proposals to be defended by the eu. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which contains a number of proposals to strengthen global economic governance, in particular the reform of the international financial system and the international monetary fund.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis the world is going through is a profound crisis of capitalism, which clearly demonstrates the contradictions of a system which sacrifices natural resources and the strength of human labour in the interests of the growing accumulation of profit. social injustices and inequality in the redistribution of wealth are the cause and consequence of years of neoliberal policies, with a narrow class matrix, always on the side of those who have the most and can do the most, against those who depend on their work for a living. this report never calls these assumptions into question. on the contrary, the solution he points to is a governance framework based on the same supranational institutions, without democratic legitimacy, which have embodied the essence of the neoliberal offensive launched against the peoples and their sovereignty. the formalisation of the g8/g20 and the strengthening of the role of the imf and the wto are part of a line of support for the imposition of neoliberal economic guidelines. the guidelines also cover the so-called recapitalisation of the banking sector, as it has been carried out. this crisis can only be resolved by breaking with the current system and replacing it with one that respects democracy, deepens social and labour rights and encourages cooperation based on social progress.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis the world is going through is a profound crisis of capitalism, which clearly demonstrates the contradictions of a system which sacrifices natural resources and the strength of human labour in favour of the growing accumulation of profit and wealth produced. in the european union, social injustices and inequality in the redistribution of wealth are the cause and consequence of years of neoliberal, federalist and highly class-based policies, always on the side of those who have the most and can do the most, against those who depend on their work to live. this report never calls this into question, pointing to tools as a solution which not only pave the way for less national sovereignty, but also legitimize and deepen the same old measures which have brought us to this situation, namely the end of the principle of unanimity, the strengthening of bodies with neoliberal positions such as the imf and the wto and an eu/us agreement with a view to recapitalising the banking sector. the crisis can only be resolved by a break with the current system and policies that respect democracy, deepen social and labour rights and encourage cooperation based on social progress.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which makes a number of suggestions for strengthening global economic governance and reforming the international monetary and financial system and its institutions, such as the imf. the report also makes a number of recommendations on the financial sector, the banking system and trade policies which i would agree with.
in writing. the european union must play a decisive role in ensuring global economic governance in the service of the common good, with respect for the autonomy and participation of states. we now know what we might call diffuse governance: the g20 for example, which brings together the 20 most developed economies in the world, is an informal structure, although it has considerable power. in other institutions, the unanimity rule has been a hindrance to more equitable solutions, since it has in practice given any decision-maker a veto. the way forward must be to strengthen governance models based on the principles of representativeness and transparency, with the common good at the centre. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − over the last few decades, economic growth has been observed on a global scale, with an increase in the purchasing power of citizens in the most developed countries. recently, europe and the us have been facing an economic and financial crisis resulting from unsustainable macroeconomic imbalances, requiring rapid and expeditious response. having agreed with the six-pack presented by the european parliament on economic governance, i am once again in favour of the suggestions in this report, which are to strengthen overall economic governance and reform the international monetary and financial system and its institutions. i also support a comprehensive understanding and common action by the member states in the areas of monetary policy, international trade and the sustainability of public finances, and the need to consolidate the opening of markets to the outside world and to strengthen financial regulation and banking supervision. finally, i believe that there should be greater cooperation between public and private authorities and a commitment to strong economic governance in the eu in order to avoid new crises in the years to come.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that despite the crisis, social europe must not give up its social system. europe should give rewards and tax incentives to companies that offer childcare facilities and day care, which allow single mothers to work while their children are supervised and educated. in addition, companies should be given incentives to offer training courses to mothers on the complex situation of managing their motherhood and working status. the netherlands is an example of a similar practice that can be implemented by other member states, where childcare is free of charge for single mothers. flexible work opportunities such as part-time work, teleworking and online work should be offered at local, national and eu level to enable single mothers to reconcile private life with working life. single mothers should be given priority access to affordable housing. for each child in care, additional unemployment benefits should be allocated to single mothers. member states could follow the example of germany in implementing this measure, as germany has already increased unemployment benefits paid to single mothers with dependent children.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which underlines the need to respond to the problems faced by single mothers in the eu. single mothers, whether as a result of divorce, separation or never having been married, represent an increasingly important group. in the eu, 5% of women are single mothers and most are aged between 25 and 64. the living conditions of certain single mothers can have consequences for their children. these children, who live with fewer resources and less opportunities to access training, may later fall victim to social exclusion and poverty. single mothers are also more exposed to stress, as they perform tasks normally shared by both parents, have less access to medical care, and are more vulnerable. member states should therefore respond to this reality and adopt public policies to support the needs of these families. i would highlight some of the measures that could be implemented, such as the adoption of indirect subsidy policies, the guarantee of health care, the possibility of opting for flexible working hours, priority access to social housing and more childcare facilities. finally, the exchange of good practice with the nordic countries should be encouraged.
in writing. - single mothers represent a demographic group often overlooked and 5% of the female population in europe is currently made up of single mothers. it is urgent to look at the challenges faced by single mothers in the eu on a daily basis. in particular, it is concerned with work, the risks of poverty and social exclusion, and the difficult balance between family and professional life. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to improve single mothers' access to employment, housing, care, education, health and social security systems. i think that tax breaks for single-parent families and tax deductions for companies that recruit single parents should be designed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that member states should continue to invest in policies that promote reconciliation between work and family life, reduce poverty and increase the economic independence of single mothers and parents. i believe that the authorities in the 27 member states and the european union should give the greatest possible support to single mothers, thus contributing to greater social cohesion and to combating child poverty, which should also be one of the eu's priorities.
in writing. - as a result of social developments, the fact is that single parents are becoming more and more frequent, and as the rapporteur rightly points out, single-parent families are not a homogeneous group but cover a huge range of family, financial and social situations. there are therefore all kinds of single mothers and single fathers who need non-discriminatory mechanisms to enable them to take full responsibility for motherhood/fatherhood without this representing a social or occupational penalty.
in writing. - barbara matera has given us an excellent report on the situation of many mothers in the european union. in fact, more and more women are finding themselves in this situation: single, divorced, or widowed, facing the task of raising children and managing a household alone, performing tasks that should be done by two. 5% of european women are single mothers who are at increased risk of poverty as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. the eu is aware of this problem and aware that the problem of single mothers is often linked to child poverty. it is committed to tackling this situation by making it a priority and implementing new initiatives that meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on poverty reduction, employability and gender equality. there is an urgent need to create conditions for access to health care, tax incentives for businesses and opportunities for flexible working. i welcome the adoption of this report which encourages member states to put in place policies to support single-parent families, in particular support for education, health and social security systems, as well as policies to promote employment, housing and care services.
in writing. - this report addresses the situation of single mothers and some of the problems they face. these are inseparable from the current socioeconomic context, dominated by severe attacks on the dignity and living conditions of mothers, especially working mothers and children. as the rapporteur points out, single-parent families are at a higher risk of poverty. in 2006, about 32% of single-parent families in the european union were at risk of poverty, compared with 12% of two-parent families. this risk is growing significantly at a time of exponential unemployment, wage cuts, cuts in social support and increasing limitations on access to public services and social protection, which in some cases force some mothers to put their children in institutions because it is no longer possible to guarantee minimum living conditions. for these reasons, we consider that this report falls short of what is needed in terms of employment with rights, living wages, respect for the right to maternity and paternity in the context of labour legislation, the establishment and maintenance of public and publicly managed networks of childcare, nursery and school, free maternal and child health services and care.
in writing. - this report addresses the situation of single mothers, especially in the current socioeconomic context, which is aggravating the problems and attacks on the dignity and living conditions of mothers and children. single-parent families live in situations that imply a higher risk of poverty, as the report itself states: in 2006, about 32% of single-parent families in the european union were at risk of poverty, compared with 12% of two-parent families. this situation is aggravated by the exponential rise in unemployment, the fall in the value of wages, and cuts in social support and access to public services and social protection, which in some cases force some mothers to hand over their children to institutions because it is no longer possible to guarantee the minimum living conditions, whether access to essential goods to feed their children or housing for the family. we therefore consider that this report falls short of the necessary measures, and that there is an urgent need for the creation of jobs and decent wages, respect for the right to maternity (in particular as regards labour law), the establishment and maintenance of public and publicly managed networks of childcare centres, kindergartens and schools, and free maternal and child health services and care.
in writing. − the studies presented indicate that the negative effects felt throughout the european community as a result of the economic and financial crisis have hit women the hardest. this impact was even greater for the vast majority of single mothers in early career and aged 25 to 40. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report on single mothers, which calls on member states to grant tax breaks to single-parent families and tax deductions to companies employing single parents. the report is not of course the subject of this report, but my main concern is the large families in which one or both parents are unemployed.
in writing. - the group of single mothers has often been left in the dark when drawing up public social support policies, to the detriment of the specific problems it raises. on the one hand, from the point of view of mothers, difficulties often arise in terms of access to employment and vocational training; on the other hand, on the part of children, a shorter period of family life is emphasized and, also, as a reflection, the decreased opportunities to continue their studies. this is an area which deserves the attention of policy-makers and where it is justified to open a dialogue in order to find solutions in an open manner to alleviate the current fragility. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the reality of single mothers - single, divorced or widowed, aged 25-64 - represents 5% of the eu total, including all socio-professional categories. this is a specific group that is often neglected by public policies in the member states and socially stigmatised. the report calls on member states, together with the eu, to take concrete action in the areas of education, health, employment, social security and housing to reduce the associated risks of poverty, social exclusion and difficulties in reconciling family and working life. there is a need to adapt public policies to different family models and situations. according to 2006 data, 32 per cent of single-parent households in the eu25 are at risk of poverty, compared with 12 per cent of couples with children. this is associated with disruption of education and the acquisition of vocational skills, the lack of school infrastructure for children at affordable prices and with working hours compatible with working hours, and social stigmatisation in some european societies. i think it is urgent to work together and identify best practices between member states and at the same time create specific support measures for this vulnerable group.
in writing. − organized crime exploits globalisation, the abolition of the european union's frontiers and the legislative disparities between member states in order to obtain ever more substantial benefits while ensuring its impunity. organized crime operates on a transnational, crossborder basis and as such must be tackled in the same way. the lisbon treaty has opened up new opportunities and provided new instruments at eu level, both in terms of judicial and police cooperation and the bodies responsible for combating transnational organised crime, making it possible to establish common standards to combat crime more effectively. this report, which i supported, sets out proposals for action to improve the eu's legislative framework and relations with other international institutions such as unodc and interpol. particular emphasis is placed on the full application of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters, with a view to combating this type of organised crime, and on improving judicial cooperation both between member states and with third countries.
in writing. − the creation of a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice requires a balance between these three realities, since citizens will only be able to enjoy their rights and freedoms in an area where they are guaranteed a high level of security, in particular through measures to prevent and combat crime, coordination and cooperation between judicial and police authorities and mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters. it is indisputable that organised crime operates on a transnational basis, with implications ranging from drug trafficking, human trafficking, corruption and money laundering, and it is essential to combat it in the same way, where justice cannot be confined to cross-border barriers. i welcome this report which represents a significant political effort to strengthen the fight against organised crime by setting out the guidelines and proposals for action to improve the eu legislative framework, such as confiscation of the proceeds of crime, implementation of transparency measures for the management of public funds and the preparation of a new directive on common investigative techniques. it is also important to strengthen and improve the functioning of the european structures involved in this fight in various capacities, such as europol and eurojust, and to strengthen cooperation between these agencies and the member states.
in writing. - as the report now adopted states, organised crime, especially mafia-type crime, exploits globalisation, the abolition of frontiers within the european union and the legislative disparities between member states to its advantage in order to obtain ever more substantial benefits while ensuring its impunity. this is a serious situation and would in itself force the eu to think carefully. it was not to facilitate organized crime that we abolished our borders. it was not for this to flourish that we created a common space of freedom and security. i am sure that the commission will take parliament's proposals in the fight against organised crime into account and will shortly be putting forward a concrete proposal to that effect.
in writing. - organized crime in the european union has been increasing, both because of the economic and financial crisis and because of the disappearance of border controls. human trafficking and exploitation, international drug and arms trafficking, money laundering and financial crimes, corruption and embezzlement of public funds are some of the activities in which mafia organizations are engaged. the report, drawn up by sonia alfano, examines this practice, which is detrimental to the interests of european citizens and institutions, and sets out the guidelines which, in the context of a better eu legislative framework, parliament believes should be followed in order to stop the internationalisation of criminal organisations of the mafia type, in particular by strengthening and improving the functioning of the european structures involved in this fight, such as undc and interpol. given that the eu must make every effort to ensure that its territory is an area of freedom, with the free movement of persons and goods, but also an area of security, i fully agree with the measures presented in this report and hope that they will be implemented by the member states as soon as possible.
in writing. - the fight against organised crime is obviously a matter of the utmost importance. this fight must be decisive against the various forms of crime, in particular money laundering. it is therefore important not to belittle or minimize (or, worse, whitewash) certain forms of crime, particularly those which develop in the economic area. the increase in crime is not dissociated from the current socioeconomic situation in the european union, from the deep crisis of capitalism and its expressions in europe, and from its policies, whether in the financial or the social sphere - with the profound disregard for social and labour rights. at the same time as we are witnessing brutal violence against the people and workers, we are witnessing almost inaction in the fight against organized crime, the promotion of easy money and illegal schemes, such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, human trafficking, etc. the report ignores these aspects. it is therefore necessary to emphasize the need to break with this policy, which is transversal in its effects and devastating in the most diverse areas, and which contains in itself the conditions for the development of organized crime in its various forms.
in writing. - we obviously consider the fight against crime to be a matter of the utmost importance. however, this fight must be effective in the various aspects of crime, particularly money laundering, which is undoubtedly one of the most obvious ways of blurring the line between legal and illegal. we therefore warn against the whitewashing of certain forms of crime, which are infiltrating the most diverse areas, particularly the economic one. the increase in crime is not dissociated from the current socioeconomic situation of the european union and its policies, whether in the financial area or in the disregard of social and labour rights. the devaluation of the importance of work and working people, with all the civilizational setbacks we are experiencing, is one of the incentives to crime, because, at the same time as we are witnessing brutal violence against people and workers, there is almost inaction in the fight against organized crime, the promotion of easy money and illegal schemes, such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, human trafficking, etc. we therefore stress the need to break with this policy, which is transversal in its effects and devastating in the most diverse areas, despite our vote on this report.
in writing. − this initiative report has the aim of setting out parliament’s guidelines and proposals for countering organised crime at eu level. this is, of course, a very important aim and we can only support it. in the adopted text, concrete proposals are made for action to improve the eu legislative framework (including several specific measures to address the internationalisation of mafia-type criminal organisations), and to strengthen and improve the functioning of european structures that are involved in various ways in fighting organised crime, as well as relations with other international institutions such as the united nations office on drugs and crime. although we noted that sometimes the means suggested are either not clear enough from the legal point of view or, on the contrary, too detailed for eu level and for a non-legislative instrument, we very much support the fight against organised crime, as highlighted in the report, and for that reason we supported the work of the rapporteur and voted in favour.
in writing. − the consequences of organised crime have a profound impact on the commitments made by the european union to its citizens and, for this reason, the institutions must undertake a concrete political effort in the fight against organised crime in order to achieve concrete and important results. in this context, i voted in favour of this report, which sets out in detail the policies that the european union can adopt in the main areas of action of organised crime, in particular: trafficking in and exploitation of human beings, international drug trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering and financial crime, corruption, the interpenetration and coexistence of organised crime, politics and public administration, the misappropriation of public funds (in particular european union funds) by organised crime, eco-mafia and environmental crime, computer crime, counterfeiting of products and related trafficking, extortion and usury.
in writing. - while the area of freedom is primarily at the service of the individual, it also provides a more favourable environment for the expansion of organised crime. indeed, with the common space comes the opportunity for unprecedented mobility, reinforcing the power of these organisations. the adoption of a common policy is therefore necessary. just as this problem has only gained the dimensions now known in the single market, so too only common action will be able to deal with it. i have voted in favour of this because i understand that efforts must be made in this direction.
in writing. - organized crime in the european union has many economic and social costs in the european single market. it is therefore essential to make the european union's action in this area effective, in accordance with the strategic priorities and tasks defined in the various existing strategic documents: the stockholm programme, the internal security strategy, the european pact to combat international drug trafficking, the eu action plan on drugs for 2009-2012, the council resolution on a strengthened strategy on customs cooperation and the council conclusions on the contribution of customs authorities to the implementation of the stockholm programme in the fight against cross-border organised crime. i support the european parliament's proposal, but i share the position of the ppe group, to which i belong, that there is no need for a special committee in the european parliament with powers in this area, particularly with regard to the spread of criminal organisations.
in writing. − i support this resolution, considering that the fourth high level forum (hlf-4) on aid effectiveness should set out future commitments for more effective development aid and contribute to the creation of a new architecture of international aid by the deadline for the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) in 2015 and beyond. i would point out, however, that previous high-level conferences have failed to produce the necessary political pressure or a legally binding framework, and that the implementation of the paris declaration has not led to the expected reduction in the fragmentation of aid, and that there are still too many operations which are not very transparent, for example in terms of conditionality. i also believe that all forms of financing for development, including innovative financing mechanisms such as a possible tax on financial transactions or global funds for financing health or education, should incorporate and apply the principles of the paris declaration. i would remind you that effective aid also means allowing the poor countries to mobilise internal revenue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that europe needs leadership and strong political commitments in busan in order to move forward with the aid effectiveness agenda. the objectives of the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness, to be held in busan at the end of november, are to reaffirm, deepen and reframe international commitments to make aid more effective, better functioning and development-enhancing. this is the only way to achieve the millennium development goals in 2015. i stress the need for the eu to take a strong stand in busan in order to reach a global consensus for an effective and truly inclusive partnership for the development of aid effectiveness.
in writing. − the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness should define future commitments for more effective development aid. i think it is crucial that the european union takes an ambitious stance in busan and that it seriously commits itself to the commitments on aid effectiveness. of the thirteen goals set out in the paris declaration, only one has been achieved. it is important that donor and recipient countries take immediate action to meet their commitments. i would like to stress the importance of a differentiated approach to aid effectiveness, which takes account of both the level of development of the beneficiary countries and their specific needs. to this end, the involvement of local authorities and civil society organisations is vital, as is better coordination and harmonisation of donor country actions through simplified procedures and close cooperation with private donors.
in writing. − the evaluation of the effectiveness of official aid to developing countries should be periodically re-evaluated, as the development aid landscape is constantly changing, particularly at this historic juncture, when the question of the level of budgetary effort allowable for this type of external aid is posed to so many member states, as opposed to the need for effective and absolutely necessary development aid in so many countries or areas of the world. the current economic, financial and social instability, and the millennium development goals, which call for a new approach from donor countries, add to this. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it adds rigor to the whole aid process through the measures it proposes. i would stress the measures for better coordination between donor countries or even greater involvement in monitoring aid by the national parliaments of the recipient countries which are, in my view, essential to ensure the success of the whole process.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest donor and this status is often brought to its attention when its institutions and member states are confronted with the failure of the development policies they have supported. indeed, it has long been recognised that it is not enough to transfer money and goods to the states that need them most, but that it is necessary to monitor how they are used, to hold the institutions and governments responsible for their application accountable, to involve the civil society that benefits from aid and to prevent the diversion of funds and products for illicit purposes. the evaluation of the effectiveness of aid to developing countries is therefore a highly topical matter which deserves to be examined in detail and in a consistent manner. i hope that the union will continue to support developing countries and that they will be able to make the best use of the aid they receive, and that civil society and the parliaments of the recipient countries will be increasingly involved in monitoring the use of aid and deciding how it is actually put at the service of the people.
in writing. - this report, by mr cristian dan preda, focuses on the fourth high level forum (hlf-4) on the effectiveness of official development assistance (oda), which will take place from 29 november to 1 december in busan, south korea. the european union, as one of the main donors of funds to developing countries, should play its part in a way that is commensurate with its responsibilities. the commission is therefore proposing the introduction of a financial transaction tax, the need to put an end to tax havens and the acceleration of the fight against tax evasion. the revision of the labour code should also be carried out, which would save eur 6 million per year. it is a report which identifies the areas where help is most needed and which has the support of a significant majority of members of parliament. the expectations for this forum are high. i therefore vote in favour of this report in the hope that the measures proposed in it will enable a new framework to be set up to improve the quality of aid and contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals by 2015.
in writing. - this report addresses the problem of the effectiveness of development aid (da), a matter related to the principles of the paris declaration and the accra programme of action. inevitably, it is also linked to the millennium development goals, which are slow to be achieved because of the obvious contradictions between words and action at the political level. as the report itself says, aid is not enough to end poverty. ad must act consistently on the causes of this poverty, by eliminating them, and not just on the symptoms. although frankly insufficient and incomplete, the report contains positive aspects such as the need to combat tax havens and tax evasion, as well as the reference to the creation of a financial transaction tax, which could channel resources to ad. we also stress the concerns about the decline in official development assistance and the fact that an increasing share of oda is coming from the so-called emerging countries. we do not follow up other points in the report, such as the attempt to blame the governments of developing countries in particular for the reduced appropriation of ad. the democratic appropriation of the ad requires genuine, consistent and effective aid which respects the needs of the peoples, their sovereignty and legitimate choices.
in writing. − this problem of the effectiveness of development assistance (da) is a question related to the principles of the paris declaration and the accra programme of action. inevitably, it is also associated with the millennium development goals, which are slow to be achieved because of the apparent contradictions between words and action at the political level. aid is not enough to end poverty, as the report itself says. this development aid must act consistently on the causes of poverty, by eliminating them, and not just on the symptoms. although frankly insufficient and incomplete, the report contains positive aspects such as the need to combat tax havens and tax evasion, as well as the reference to the creation of a financial transaction tax, which could channel resources to ad. we also stress the concerns about the decline in official development assistance and the fact that an increasing share of oda is coming from the so-called emerging countries. we do not follow up other points in the report, such as the attempt to blame the governments of developing countries in particular for the reduced appropriation of ad. the democratic appropriation of the ad requires genuine, consistent and effective aid which respects the needs of the peoples, their sovereignty and legitimate choices.
in writing. − this report on the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness presents a set of proposals for the current redefinition of the aid effectiveness programme. the european parliament must be involved in this matter and must push for measures to make the union's aid more effective. in fact, the transparency of aid is essential to safeguard both its appropriation and its effectiveness. i agree with the need to never lose sight of the objective of aid quality and the promotion of an international development-oriented agenda.
in writing. − the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness (fan-4) aims primarily to draw up the strategy for the remaining period until the deadline for achieving the millennium development goals. in this context, it should be noted that the european union and its member countries spend more than half of the annual amount allocated to development aid, and are therefore in the lead. the european union should take this opportunity to act, within the framework of nafta-4, in order to respect its guiding principles: the commission's proposals are based on the following principles: efficiency, seeking to find ways of optimising resources for developing countries so that, instead of creating a situation of dependence, they are equipped with instruments enabling them to act autonomously after the end of aid; the promotion of cooperation between peoples, encouraging south-south aid; and, above all, respect for the rule of law, advocating the establishment of democratic models based on human rights. this is a line of action with which i identify and which therefore deserved my vote in favour.
in writing. - article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the primary objective of the union's aid policy is the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty. in implementing policies which may affect developing countries, the union shall take account of the objectives of development cooperation. it should be stressed that the european union and its 27 member states are the largest contributors to official development assistance (oda) and play a key role in enhancing the effectiveness of international aid. i agree with this report because i believe that countries should strengthen international cooperation, harmonize their actions and simplify their procedures. i also believe it is important to increase financial aid and involve the private sector in aid to the poorest countries in order to build an economy that is not dependent on external aid, to ensure sustainable development and to create wealth. finally, i believe that the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness (fan-4) should be able to build a new architecture for international aid by the deadline set for the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), namely 2015.
madam president, it is a scandal that companies are closing down and multinationals are moving away, such as arcelor and nokia. these are the consequences of the capitalist policies of free competition, deregulation of the labour market, flexibility and flexicurity. it is these policies which allow large economic groups, after receiving substantial community support, to close down and send thousands of workers to unemployment, even with profits as high as arcelor mittal's. these are scandals that are multiplying in different member states, including portugal. it is time for the european commission to present initiatives to prevent this behaviour by multinationals and to defend european industry. it is time to intervene with public policies, including the nationalisation of sectors that are basic to production and employment. it is time to return to regulation, to recognition of the rights of workers. it is time for political power to take charge of the economy and not to let the economic and financial groups guide community policies.
the rapporteur. - i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs, with whom i have had a fruitful collaboration, and i would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the opinions of the four committees involved. their opinions are a valuable contribution to this report. we received 400 amendments and drew up 47 commitments, all of which were adopted. this shows the importance and interest of the subject of new skills and jobs. it is, after all, a question of preparing europe's human resources by anticipating the needs of the labour market in the next decade. the key strategy for the preparation of the report was to reformulate the common ideas to avoid repetition and to ensure the coherence of the report. i think that objective has been achieved. we all know that the crisis that is currently affecting us has highlighted the weaknesses of the european economic and social model and has reversed much of the progress made in the past. since the first effects of the crisis began to be felt on labour markets in 2008, europe has already lost more than 5 million jobs. today, nearly 23 million people are unemployed. youth unemployment is even more frightening: the youth unemployment rate is close to 21% and is more than double the general unemployment rate. in addition, unemployment rates vary across member states according to skill levels. this means that people with higher qualifications find jobs more easily. we also know that in the near future the needs for skills, competences and qualifications will increase across all types and levels of occupation. in this context, europe faces four challenges: first, job creation; second, the need to engage and remain competitive; third, the sustainability of social security systems; and finally, the difficulty of finding people with the right skills to fill job vacancies. this report thus has a twofold objective: first, to underline the need for rapid action to close the skills gap in europe; second, to better anticipate the skills needs of the labour market. to this end, several measures stand out: first, to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce, basic skills need to be improved, as well as skills in science, innovation, information and communication technologies and foreign languages. as i have already mentioned, skills needs should be identified early, over a horizon of at least 10 years. we now know the potential of a new sustainable economy, the green economy, and the need to invest in green skills. then there is the need to increase participation in lifelong learning, vocational retraining and the reduction of school drop-out rates. another important issue is the mutual recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications and the urgency of moving forward with this recognition. fourthly, we call attention to the link between educational establishments and the needs of the labour market. the traineeships must be of a quality and supervised by tutors so that they can lead to employment and to put an end to any abuse of the trainee status. particular emphasis is also placed on the role of the social partners and social dialogue. the report also proposes measures to promote demand and job creation. we have the future ahead of us and we have to create jobs. smes play a decisive role in this respect. the single market must also be strengthened to facilitate the free movement of workers and hence the need to coordinate social security systems so that workers can have their acquired rights guaranteed, in particular the portability of pensions. finally, the question of labour market flexibility: to improve the functioning of the labour market, flexicurity rules should be adapted to the socioeconomic contexts of each member state.
i would like to begin by trying to bring to this debate all the outrage and indignation that is being felt in many of our countries. it is the revolt of workers in precarious and low-paid work, of millions of women and young people who are being denied a job with rights and a living wage, and whose future is mortgaged to increasingly neo-liberal policies, which only seek higher earnings, higher profits, for the same people. unfortunately, this report does not go into the depths of these problems, it does not analyse the causes of the high unemployment, the real reasons for the loss of more than 3.5 million jobs over the last two years and the forecast loss of more than 2.5 million jobs in the coming years. it is simply blaming the crisis, without paying attention to the fact that the policies of the stability pact, free competition, liberalization and privatization, and flexible working conditions have contributed to creating and aggravating the crisis. so, despite one or another positive point, most of them are mere palliatives, simple aspirins for the cancer of the anti-labor and anti-social capitalist policies that are spreading in the european union. today there are thousands of highly qualified people who are unemployed. the most urgent thing is therefore to put an end to the closure of a series of companies, the relocation of multinationals, the destruction of industrial and agricultural sectors, the attack on public services and smes. the most urgent thing is therefore to put an end to the so-called austerity policies, the programmes of aggression against the workers and the peoples, as in greece and portugal. without that, we won't have a schedule for new skills and new jobs.
i would also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her work. the creation of more and better jobs must be a priority for the european union. 23 million unemployed is an impressive number. the high unemployment rate has economic and social consequences and calls into question the sustainability of social security systems. it is therefore necessary to improve the skills of young people in particular in the fields of science, education and new technologies, and thus put europe on the road to progress. women are in a peculiar situation. that's 60 percent of all new graduates, but very few go into science and technology. parttime work is essentially a women's job, which means that part of the potential of women is not used and that their economic independence is jeopardized in the medium and long term. the eu should support specific programmes that promote the recruitment of women into technical professions, following the good practices in some countries. i would also like to stress the important role of microcredit, which is an effective tool for increasing female employability and one of the most effective means of economic independence for women.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i would first like to thank all the members who have spoken in this lively debate. all colleagues have made very useful contributions and have contributed to a very constructive discussion on an agenda which is ambitious at a time when we are living through a serious crisis. in fact, this debate is taking place on the eve of a european council which will show whether or not there is political will to overcome the difficulties we are experiencing, whether there is political will to deepen our economic coordination and whether there is really a harmonized and united will to achieve the ambition on this agenda, namely: to have new jobs in the next decade, new jobs which will give young people who are currently unemployed and those who are in training hope on the labour market, hope on an inclusive labour market, which will give them an answer to their ambition of dignifying themselves through work, and also give them the opportunity to be in a permanent dynamism to keep up with the challenges of a globalised economy and with a dynamic that has no parallel in recent generations. so our ambition is really to have job creation, to have economic growth, to not only respond to those who are unemployed as a result of the crisis, but to those who are entering the labour market, and also to respond to the great challenges that are there with the green economy, with services in the health sector, with services in the transport sector, in the housing sector, which require from all of us a different vision, a smart vision and an inclusive vision of the labour market. thank you all so much.
the economic, financial and social crisis currently affecting europe has highlighted the weaknesses of the european economic and social model and has reversed much of the progress made in the past. this is a reality with serious consequences for growth and social security systems in europe. equally worrying is the difficulty some employers find in recruiting, especially for highly skilled positions. strengthening human capital and employability through skills upgrading means putting europe on the road to recovery. the agenda for new skills and jobs aims to develop effective policies in the fields of employment, education, training and individual career choices. it is therefore necessary to improve the capacity of member states and the union to anticipate, anticipate and match future skills to labour market needs, which means more investment in r&d in order to create added value.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. the european parliament adopted my report by a large majority a year ago. after all this time, what answer does the council have to give to european women and families? this legislative initiative is part of the so-called conciliation package. of the three proposals in this package, only the revision of the maternity leave directive is still awaiting the council's position. the other two were already approved in 2010. it is therefore not understandable that the more comprehensive proposal which defends the safety and health of women at work, promotes the reconciliation of family and working life and helps to halt the demographic decline of recent decades, should be postponed successively. a hundred years ago, the european population was 15% of the world's population; by 2050, it should be no more than 5%. the ageing and consequent decline of the labour force is putting at risk the sustainability of social security systems and economic growth itself, so motherhood should not be seen as a burden on the economy but as a service to society. on the other hand, the costs of my proposal, which has been approved by parliament, are not as high as many people claim. the financial impact study on the proposals adopted by the european parliament concluded that the costs of the proposal will be fully covered if it contributes to increasing women's participation in the labour market by only 1%. according to the europe 2020 targets, the employment rate for men and women should reach 75%. the full payment is fair, because families should not be financially penalised for having the children they want and europe needs. contrary to what some member states claim, the european parliament's proposals are balanced and feasible, in line with the recommendations of the international labour organisation and the world health organisation. i would like to thank the polish presidency and, in particular, the minister, for the interest and the diligence they have shown in unblocking this matter. despite the efforts of the current presidency and the flexibility shown by the european parliament, the alibi of the financial crisis and austerity has overtaken everything else, including the defence of human rights, because that is also what we are talking about, human rights, when we talk about maternity leave and paternity leave. there seems to be money for everything but meeting the expectations of the citizens. according to the eurobarometer, 8 out of 10 europeans are in favour of extending maternity leave to 20 weeks with full pay, i.e. they agree with the european parliament's proposal. i therefore ask the council: how can the council continue to disregard the position of the european parliament, which has been supported by an unprecedented debate and a strong vote by all the parliamentary groups? how can the council refuse to discuss and negotiate with the european parliament the phased implementation of the amendments adopted? how can the council continue to ignore the wishes of the majority of european citizens? europe is in a deep crisis and, more serious than the financial and economic crisis, it is a crisis of leadership. in difficult times like this, it is when the great leaders of the past are most missed, leaders with strategic vision and decision-making ability, leaders who are courageous and visionary, leaders who can distinguish the essential from the accessory, leaders who earned the trust of the citizens. the crisis does not affect everyone in the same way, we know that the crisis has been used as an excuse to reduce social benefits, we know that the european council is quicker to help banks than member states in difficulty. how long will the citizens accept this situation? i shall conclude with what i said in another debate on this subject: times are tough, but it's at these times that societies need bold decision-makers the most, because, as the roman poet horace reminded us thousands of years ago, those who fear storms end up crawling.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, it is a year since the european parliament adopted a very clear position on the revision of the maternity leave directive and it is becoming scandalous that the council has not put forward a proposal and has kept the situation blocked, with total disregard for the european parliament and above all for women and men who want to have children and for children who are deprived of this essential support in the first years of life. it should be remembered that the majority of the european parliament has approved a report which seeks to increase the minimum period of maternity leave from the current 14 weeks to 20 weeks of fully paid leave. it also introduced paternity leave with two weeks of fully paid leave for the parents. these are fair proposals which the council should accept in support of families, motherhood, fatherhood and children. it is not enough to say that we want to increase birth rates and then not act on it by improving policies that can give it some substance. the council's attitude is completely unacceptable, refusing to negotiate, allowing an injustice to continue to be perpetrated against working women, mothers and fathers, but above all against society as a whole, taking into account the social value of motherhood and fatherhood. it is unacceptable that the council should take a genuine attitude of contempt towards the european parliament and not react to the proposals we have put forward, even if there are member states with reservations. we therefore hope that after this debate there will be a positive response from the council.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are living through a financial, economic and social crisis which requires and requires the efforts of all the institutions and, at the same time, that these institutions have the means to meet the expectations of our citizens. this crisis, this moment, is also a good time for the eurosceptics, the extremists of the left and the right, who are leaving fertile ground for populism and demagogy. the opportunists always have at such times additional ways of taking advantage of the difficulties. however, even these cannot hide the enormous efforts, the real cuts that all the institutions of the european union are making in the 2012 budget. it should be noted that the total amount of administrative and operating expenditure for all the institutions represents only 5.59% of the total amount of the budget of the european union. it should also be noted that we have exceeded what the council, the commission and parliament expected, as evidenced by the margin of some 500 million euro we have in heading 5, which is the one containing all the expenditure of all the institutions in the european union. all this despite the new tasks, the new members, the costs of croatia's accession and the existence of new institutions, such as the european external action service. the overall budgetary update for all institutions for 2012 is around 1%, well below inflation, which means that there is negative budget growth in real terms for all institutions. the council, and i am addressing myself to it, cannot dismiss the efforts and cuts made by all the institutions and has the opportunity to show that the institutions have gone to the limit of their ability to ensure greater rigor and it is clear that the commitments made and undeniable must be fulfilled. minimum electricity costs, security and maintenance costs, among others, must be covered. as regards the european parliament's budget, i welcome the efforts of the political groups and the bureau of parliament which have led to real cuts and to cuts which i would also call disruptive. since the beginning of the negotiations with the bureau and up to now, we have cut more than 74 million euros, we have reached an overall agreement with the bureau of parliament, after several conciliation meetings, which leads to the 2012 update being the lowest since 1999, even including the expenditure resulting from the accession of croatia and the 18 new members. after we have introduced the costs of croatia's accession in agreement with the council, we expect the european parliament's budget for 2012 to be updated by only 1.9%, which is well below inflation. it should be noted that the estimates approved by this plenary in april for the 2012 budget corresponded to an update of 2.3 and that update did not include the expenditure resulting from the accession of croatia and the 18 new members. to reduce these estimates, we reopened discussions with the bureau and cut another 25.1 million. to be precise, if we want to make the comparison with 2011, we have to subtract these two new expenditures resulting from the accession of croatia and the entry of 18 new members, which leads to one of the lowest updates in the history of the parliament, of only 0.8%. however, with these cuts, we will continue to live up to the standards, we will continue to have the minimum to continue the european project, to live up to what the european citizens expect of us.
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the polish presidency, i would like to comment on the agricultural part of the budget. europe needs, more than ever, a strong common agricultural policy, capable of guaranteeing quality foodstuffs at affordable prices for consumers and in an environmentally sustainable framework. we all know that. for all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate the need for an adequate agricultural budget for 2012. i welcome the reception of the proposals from the committee on agriculture in the committee on budgets and i would like to ask the house to confirm them. i am still shocked by the decisions of the last council of agriculture ministers, but i must say something about the unquestionable blockade that six member states are making of food aid for the most deprived. at a time of serious economic and social crisis, when millions of european citizens are facing enormous difficulties, such callousness is not to be understood. i would also like to thank the commission for its efforts to find a satisfactory solution.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the first problem with this 2012 budget proposal is that it was essentially decided in 2006. the big numbers are before the crisis of 2008 and 2009, they are before the debt crisis and the proposal that is under discussion does not solve or reflect the crisis that is coming in 2012. this is a small budget, very small for europe's needs, and only the governments seem to be convinced of the contrary. the second problem with the proposal is that it has longstanding commitments to very powerful interests. this budget spends more on security policies than on education, this budget supports larger economic groups more than small and mediumsized enterprises, this budget channels more resources to multinational pharmaceutical companies than to university research. we appreciate the rapporteur's efforts, but please understand that we cannot support this budget proposal. mr president, a few words now on the budget for this parliament. for the first time there is an effort to contain expenditure, which is why i do not understand why this effort leaves aside the incomes and expenditure of the members themselves. this proposal cuts 21 million euros in interpreters and translations, with consequences for employment and multilingualism, but it does not dare touch the money we have available for our office expenses. the majority of this house supports austerity policies, in some countries these austerity policies are causing mass unemployment and are causing 20 to 30 per cent cuts in wages and pensions. in the face of such injustice, how is it possible to uphold the unwritten principle of the inviolability of one's own income? how do you want the citizens to look at us, or worse, how can we look at our fellow citizens? how can we look at them? a parliament which continues to insist on the inviolability of our incomes is a repository of irresponsibility and social insensitivity. in three hours, our conscience will be voting, mine was not kidnapped by the wallet.
mr president, this budget once again makes it very clear what the real dimension and meaning of the much-vaunted european solidarity is. only 1.08 per cent of the 27's overall gross income, still less by more than €8 billion than the amount envisaged in the multiannual financial framework agreed in 2006, and just over €130 billion in payments for 2012, make any economic and social cohesion unfeasible, all the more so in the context of the ongoing aggression against the countries targeted by the imf/eu programmes. this is, unfortunately, increasingly a europe of divisions, and this budget is proof of that. to give you an idea of the scale and the real nature and objectives of this european union, the overall amount of this budget is very close to what can be channelled into the recapitalisation of european banks. once again, this budget goes beyond what it should in external interventionism, in militarism, in the repression of immigration, once again it falls far short of what was required in cohesion, employment, social areas and environmental preservation. a final word of concern about the cuts in the budget of this parliament. more than 20 000 million euros in the interpretation and translation service is a serious and unacceptable threat to multilingualism and to the jobs of many workers who play a vital role in the functioning of this house.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner, i would also like to thank the representative of the council, i would also like to thank in a special way all the members, all the shadow rapporteurs who have made this budget possible and i would also like to say a word about the budget of the european parliament, a word to the bureau of the parliament, because we have done a difficult but fruitful job which, with the opening of the bureau, with the collaboration of the bureau, has enabled us to reach the cut i have already mentioned, of more than 74 million euros in the budget of the parliament. i would like to make a few points about the savings in interpretation and translation costs: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a good example of the need to ensure that the carcinogens and mutagens are not used in the production of carcinogens. the principle of multilingualism is something we have defended from the beginning and will never be called into question. as regards travel, we proposed a 5% cut for all types of travel and, in order to have a proposal in due time by 31 march from the bureau, we imposed a 15% reserve for this purpose. as regards general expenditure, that is a matter for the bureau of parliament and so in conciliation meetings we ask the bureau, and that is part of the overall agreement, to freeze that expenditure and that is what happens. we followed the rules and the competence of each intervener, we made savings. however, these savings do not call into question the objective we have set ourselves, namely legislative excellence. the european parliament and its institutions have a tight budget, but at the same time a budget sufficient to carry out the european project.
in writing. at a time of economic and social crisis, it is unacceptable to present this budget, which is lower in real terms and as a percentage than in other years. it is a budget which once again makes very clear the real dimension and meaning of the much-vaunted european solidarity and economic and social cohesion. at just 1.08% of the total gross income of the 27 member states, it is still below the figure of over €8 billion foreseen in the multiannual financial framework agreed in 2006. unfortunately, the proposals we have put forward in the various committees, which aim to increase funding in the social and environmental fields, to change the content and distribution of funding, including cuts in the militaristic area and the repression of immigration, have been rejected. with only around €130 billion in payments planned for 2012, they make any economic and social cohesion unfeasible, which is all the more serious in the context of the ongoing aggression against the countries targeted by the imf-eu programmes. as regards the european parliament's budget, we regret that there is a cut of eur 21 million in interpretation and translation services, which is a serious and unacceptable threat to the principle of multilingualism and to the jobs of many workers whose role is essential for the functioning of the ep and the defence of multilingualism.
mr president, it is a point of order on the voting list we are going to have on the budget. in heading 1006, on members' general expenditure, the committee on budgets' proposal comes before amendment no 985, which proposes a reduction in this amount. this is contrary to the regulation which, in article 161, gives priority to the proposal which deviates most from the original proposal. the second point is to ask you, mr president, to respect the order of voting of amendment no 985, tabled in writing by 40 members, which proposes a 5% reduction in general expenditure, that is to say, to allow the president to reconsider his decision to vote only on the 25% reduction and to ask the house which of the amendments he prefers to vote on.
the order that has been laid down here is not the order as voted in the committee on budgets. as it is against the regulation which, in article 161, stipulates that the proposal which is furthest from the adopted text must be voted on first, amendment no 985 must therefore be voted on first. i would ask that this amendment, if it is voted, be the one which reduces members' expenditure by 5%.
the rapporteur. - mr president, what i have to say is that the way the vote has been taken so far has not been questioned and we have several examples in the vote we have taken. i will give you several examples of several lines where what was voted first was what was proposed by the committee on budgets. the example was that we voted in block, i will give you other examples: there was another amendment on line 19 10 01 01, but the one we voted on first was amendment no 1174 from the committee on budgets. i'll give you another example. what we voted first on line 19 10 02 was the committee on budgets, what we voted first on line 19 10 04 was the committee on budgets and the way we have voted in the house over the years has been first the votes of the committee on budgets and then the votes of members or members of committees, that was the procedure, that is the precedent and that is what we have done so far in our colleague mrs balzani's report.
it is very sad that the possibility of voting on reducing members' money in this parliament has been eliminated.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is only a technical statement: in paragraph 68 of the resolution, instead of 25.1, the correct number is 74.085.
the commission's proposal is to amend the first part of the paragraph, which would read as follows: proposes that, in the context of the negotiation of the 2012 budget, the appropriations for the security research line be reduced.
the second part of the question is the question of the future of the community.
in writing. - i approve this position, welcoming the increase in commitment appropriations for the flagship initiatives youth on the move and the european platform against poverty; i would remind you that the crisis is far from over and i am opposed to a real reduction in the employment and social affairs chapter and the flagship initiative new skills for new jobs. i also agree with the rapporteur that the european social fund needs to be managed more efficiently. it is of the utmost importance that member states use the resources available from the european social fund to support projects targeting young people and their access to the labour market and education, in response to the alarming level of youth unemployment and social unrest in many countries.
in writing. - the plenary session i welcome the 2012 budget voted today, because it is a budget for growth, jobs and innovation in the european union and for supporting development and democracy in neighbouring countries. the most significant increases proposed by the european parliament concern research and development (+10.35%) and cohesion and the structural funds (+8.8%). research and innovation are two fundamental pillars of economic development and job creation in europe. it is therefore crucial to increase the share of funding that is allocated to research and innovation within the overall eu budget, by substantially increasing the budget of the framework programme and the percentage of the structural funds dedicated to this sector.
in writing. - i congratulate mr josé manuel fernandes on his excellent work as rapporteur for the ep's 2012 budget. this budget will enable parliament to modernise itself and to live up to its responsibilities in a context of economic and financial crisis and the need to set an example in cutting costs. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it has more responsibilities and a greater workload, especially in the legislative processes, with the multiplication of trilogues and conciliations. i agree with that and applaud it: 1. the overall reduction of eur 74 million compared to the budget proposal made by the secretary-general, 2. the reduction in real value of the 2012 budget compared to that of 2011. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the establishment of a european parliamentary assembly, which would be the first to be established in the eu. i deplore the use of the budgetary procedure for small-policy purposes. it is easy, taking money out of its context, to argue about parliament's expenditure. but that does not strengthen parliament or democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft budget for 2012. i believe that in the present context of economic crisis and the consequent austerity measures, the european parliament should join the efforts being made on behalf of the european people, in particular by freezing all members' allowances and reducing members' travel expenses. i regret, however, the decision to cut the budget for translation and interpretation, since the principle of multilingualism in the european parliament and in the framework of interinstitutional dialogue should not be called into question. that is why i voted in favour of amendments nos 43 and 44. while i believe that more should have been done in reducing and rationalising expenditure, i would like to stress that administrative costs account for only 5.6% of the total eu budget and that the european parliament's budget represents only one fifth of that amount. in addition, in 2012, the european parliament's budget will be below the level of inflation, thus making significant cuts in expenditure, despite new members and new competences resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the crisis in which the european union is plunged and which threatens its stability calls for its budget to take account of the difficulties it is experiencing and to resist expansionary tendencies which would be misunderstood by public opinion in the member states. i believe that the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 has sought to take this concern into account without giving in to easy populism. for example, the budget for the european parliament has been reduced by eur 74 million, despite the additional costs incurred by the institution. i hope that, despite the budget cuts which the gravity of the present time forces upon it, the union will be able to pursue properly the powers entrusted to it and will be able to do more and better with less. if it does, and i hope it does, it will set a good example for the member states, particularly those which are currently experiencing the greatest difficulties. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr josé manuel fernandes on his good work.
in writing. − the amount of all administrative and running expenditure of all the institutions corresponds to only 5.59% of the total amount of the eu budget. it should also be noted that we have exceeded what the council, the commission and parliament could have expected, as is shown by the margin of eur 500 million in heading 5. all this despite the new tasks, the new members and the existence of new institutions, such as the european external action service. the overall update for 2012 of all institutions is about 1% very much below inflation, which means in real terms negative growth. as regards the ep budget, we have cut more than eur 74 million since the start of the negotiations with the bureau. to be precise, if we want to make a comparison with 2011, we have to subtract the expenditure resulting from the accession of croatia and the entry of 18 new members, which leads to one of the lowest updates in the history of the parliament: only 0.8%. it should be noted that in interpretation and translation alone we will save 21 million euros. we also approve the 5% reduction in all types of travel.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. but unfortunately it is becoming a habit to hear this accusatory rhetoric directed at the council by a parliament which then ends up approving a budget which is not very different - in amount and in options - from the proposal submitted to it. this is a budget, in real terms and as a percentage, which is lower than in other years, which is regrettable and illustrates, in the present context of deep crisis, the true meaning of the so-called european solidarity. in addition, in a year when the eu will also be faced, in budgetary terms, with the enlargement of the union to include a new member state. we are faced with a clear imposition of the interests of the eu's most powerful countries at the expense of the countries with the weakest economies, making them responsible for bearing the economic and social costs of the policies they have promoted. the way in which funding is increased in areas such as immigration suppression and external interventionism is alarming, while in the sub-category cohesion for growth and jobs the funds available are extremely low.
in writing. - we voted against this report, which sets out the ep's position on the 2011 eu budget, because it does not take account of the current economic and social crisis, setting a figure of over €8 billion below that foreseen in the multiannual financial framework agreed in 2006. unfortunately, all the proposals we have put forward have been rejected, including in the plenary: - rejects the eec, the euro+ pact, austerity programmes, in particular those imposed on countries with said financial assistance, and insists on new policies and funds which promote economic and social cohesion; - insists on the establishment of a programme for employment and social progress focusing on production, the development of public services, the creation of jobs with rights and the eradication of poverty; - stresses the need to increase the eu budget significantly and to change its priorities in order to achieve effective economic and social cohesion, which also requires ensuring that the countries with the greatest financial weaknesses have an effective capacity to absorb community funds; - rejects the idea of using the community budget to finance a more militaristic and neoliberal eu and its growing militarisation.
in writing. − i have approved this report on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, as amended by the council. i consider it to be a balanced report, opting for restraint without compromising the conditions for continuing the work which is required of it. i commend my colleague josé manuel fernandes for his hard work in pursuing a fairer and more balanced budget.
in writing. - the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 is generally welcomed by the european parliament and deserves my vote in favour. this is a particularly difficult period for the community, and an instrument is needed to provide the eu with the means and strategies to meet the objectives set out in the treaties. in this context, the opening of dialogue between the main political factions is commended in order to ensure a solid basis for the development of the european project in the period ahead.
in writing. − the adoption of the eu's annual budget is always a momentous occasion, as it confirms the priorities and determines the activities of the institutions. the draft budget for 2012 covers not only the european parliament but also the other european institutions and the objectives set out in the budget lines. as far as parliament is concerned, i support the rapporteur's proposals for an upgrading of 0.8%, if we exclude the expenditure on the 18 new members as a result of the requirements of the lisbon treaty and the expenditure arising from the enlargement of the eu to croatia. only when everything is summed up can we speak of an increase of 1.44% compared to 2011, which is still the lowest since 1999. as regards the various thematic headings, the greatest difficulty arose in heading 1 on competitiveness for growth and jobs, due to its narrow margins and the financing of important priorities. however, a commitment was reached to increase its ceiling and to ensure that priorities such as sme capacity, entrepreneurship and innovation, lifelong learning and erasmus mundus had a higher allocation than the commission proposed.
in writing. - i approve this celebration in agreement with norway, a country which is showing significant advances in the technological field.
in writing. − although not a member of the european union, norway is a reliable partner, politically and financially involved in many of its initiatives, projects and programmes. this is the case of the european space agency, which is supported by norwegian participation and commitment to the creation and implementation of the european satellite navigation system. given the norwegian participation in this joint project, it is entirely justified that the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the union and its member states and norway should be supported by a broad consensus in the european parliament, to which i also subscribe.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by herbert reul, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the eu and its member states and the kingdom of norway on satellite navigation. norway, although not one of the 27 member states of the european union, is a country that maintains strong links with the eu, including through participation in various cooperation projects. the satellite navigation system, developed by the european navigation agency, is an example of norwegian cooperation with the european union. in these terms, and taking into account the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am voting in favour of the council's request that parliament approve the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by herbert reul, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the eu and its member states and the kingdom of norway on satellite navigation. norway, although not one of the 27 member states of the european union, is a country that maintains strong links with the eu, including through participation in various cooperation projects. the satellite navigation system, developed by the european navigation agency, is an example of norwegian cooperation with the european union. in these terms, and taking into account the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am voting in favour of the council's request that parliament approve the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway.
in writing. the multiple applications of satellite navigation systems are well known. this is a major scientific and technological achievement with tremendous potential, which today supports diverse spheres of human action. like other technologies, it can be used for peaceful and strictly civilian purposes, which help to improve the welfare and living conditions of most people, or for military purposes, helping to destroy and war. this recommendation on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the eu and its member states and the kingdom of norway is a response to the council's request for the european parliament's opinion on the agreement. in view of the clarifications made in the committee on industry, energy and research, we think it is worth agreeing to, given the assurances that the information will not be used for military purposes. however, the matter deserves to be monitored and scrutinized, because it is known that the line separating the two types of use is sometimes thin and imprecise.
in writing. − this recommendation on the proposal for a council decision follows the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway. it is a response to the request for approval which the council has submitted to obtain the european parliament's opinion. in view of the explanations given in the committee on industry, energy and research, we think that we should agree, provided that norway wishes to do so, as we have been told. we therefore do not see it as a negative thing, although it is a matter to be monitored in the future, taking into account the interests of the parties and the need to ensure that mutual information is not used for military purposes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation, which gives the green light to the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on satellite navigation between the european union and its member states and the kingdom of norway, as i consider that this is an agreement which is overall positive for all parties.
in writing. the galileo programme is one of the most ambitious european research projects. given its scale, which requires a large investment capacity, public intervention and participation is justified on the one hand, and on the other hand, the results of this project should be open to important commercial partners, so as to obtain the return on the enormous financial effort required. for these reasons, the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on cooperation in the field of satellite navigation should be approved.
in writing. - following the launch of the first two galileo satellites on 21 october, europe is now one step closer to having a european satellite navigation system, which will bring numerous benefits not only to european industry but also to the daily lives of european citizens. this agreement with norway will enable that country, a partner in strategic cooperation, to enjoy all the advantages and possibilities of the galileo and egnos programmes, since it has participated in the definition and implementation of both programmes in political, technical and financial terms. norway will also be home to two major land stations. as such, this agreement celebrates norway's political commitment to the future eu policy on the protection of satellite navigation systems. finally, it expresses the general principles of cooperation and norway's rights and obligations, in particular as regards security. the galileo programme, in addition to being a system that will bring economic and social benefits and enable the eu2020 objectives to be achieved, is proof that europe is taking its first steps in the field of space, a representative fact of european integration.
in writing. − i approve the conclusion of this protocol, stressing the benefits which can be derived from mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of the application of satellite systems in services.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusion of the us-ec agreement on the promotion, supply and use of the galileo and gps satellite navigation systems. european industry will be the first to benefit from this agreement, as it contributes to the functioning of many sectors of the european economy and provides businesses and citizens with direct access to a european-produced satellite navigation signal. the galileo programme creates a more advanced global satellite navigation system, which ensures a highly accurate and reliable global positioning service.
in writing. - it is a source of pride that this month the first two european satellites have been launched into orbit, which will form part of what will be the galileo constellation by the end of the decade, with a total of 30 satellites at more than 23 000 km above the earth. the galileo satellites, which are entirely civilian in origin, will provide an alternative global positioning system which will enable europe to become independent of the american global positioning system (gps). i therefore support the conclusion of an agreement with the united states of america for the promotion, supply and use of both european satellite navigation systems.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by herbert reul, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for the promotion, supply and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and related applications between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part. since the launch of gps in 2000, this sector has grown exponentially and is expected to represent a €230 billion market by 2025. the eu, a community attentive to this new technology, has developed a geostationary navigation system called egnos (european geostationary navigation overlay service), the precursor to the galileo system, which is expected to be operational in 2013 with a level of accuracy ten times that of gps. in view of the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, i am voting in favour of the council's request for parliament to approve the agreement for the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part.
in writing. − this recommendation gives the green light to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for the promotion, provision and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and related applications between the european community and its member states and the united states of america. many services, including more efficient road transport management, better search and rescue services, safer banking transactions and a more reliable supply of electricity, rely heavily on satellite navigation technologies. there are studies indicating that there are significant economic benefits for all parties involved. for these reasons i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the galileo programme is one of the most ambitious european research projects. given its size, which requires a high investment capacity, public intervention and participation is justified on the one hand, and on the other hand the opening up of its results to important commercial partners, in order to obtain the profitability of the enormous financial effort required. for these reasons, the agreement concluded between the european union and the united states for cooperation in the field of satellite navigation should be approved.
in writing. - the european galileo project has a 100% european basis and is therefore seen by many as another reference element of european identity. the launch of the first two satellites on the 21st is just the beginning of a constellation of 30 satellites. this intelligent satellite navigation system will develop and improve numerous applications and services, including an intelligent transport system, search and rescue services, the security of financial transactions, and the supply of electricity. the independence of europe from the american gps was one of the initial objectives of the galileo project. but the work on interoperability and compatibility between the two has made it possible to sign this cooperation agreement. after four years of negotiations, users of both galileo and gps systems will be able to use both navigation systems with the same equipment. the importance of this project, still in its embryonic stage, shows that galileo has a market potential of 3 billion users and that its success will benefit the european market, in particular smes, and that it is estimated that it will generate, over 20 years, eur 90 billion and numerous public and social benefits.
in writing. - i approve this report as it was the subject of suggestions put forward by the committee on regional development to the committee on budgets. given the great pressure on public budgets, parliaments need to be creative in trying to rebalance their budgets. in addition to unsustainably high levels of sovereign debt and budget deficits, growing social inequalities in all european societies require far-reaching initiatives. the creation of the common internal market for the benefit of businesses and consumers has been the main argument in favour of almost all european directives in the field of business taxation. unfortunately, this combined with the persistent ideology of absolute independence of national legislators in the field of taxation has produced very damaging and increasingly significant effects. a thorough review of the council directive on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states is therefore indispensable at this stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to revise the directive on the common system of taxation applicable to parent companies and subsidiaries of member states, with the aim of facilitating multinational mergers and, consequently, eliminating double taxation of income in the form of dividends.
in writing. - while i continue to argue that fiscal sovereignty is a frontier that should not be crossed and that fiscal competition generates gains for the internal market, i cannot but agree that it is also essential that in a common economic area, where many share the same currency, there are common rules to avoid double taxation or non-taxation. the tax independence of states cannot be a cover for tax evasion or unequal tax treatment, which is why i support the amendments now introduced to the mothers and daughters directive.
in writing. − this report, by sven giegold, analyses a proposal for a council directive on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states. the current economic and financial crisis has made it more difficult to prepare the budgets for the year 2012. member states will have to make a further effort to reduce expenditure and rebalance their budgets. it is therefore imperative to review the current tax regime. the single market, as an integral part of the european project, also presents many discrepancies between member states, which have been corrected by directives. one of the areas that causes a lot of injustice within the eu is the tax system to the detriment of businesses and consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, fraudulent practices and fraudulent practices. i welcome the adoption of this report, which recommends a thorough revision of the council directive in order to put an end to the existing vices, namely double non-taxation, tax evasion and non-contribution to the satisfaction of social needs. finally, i hope it will help to strengthen smes.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that national protection of collectibles is almost always illegal and that a common european approach is needed to avoid it. the great pressure on public budgets requires parliaments to be creative in trying to rebalance their budgets. it is important to be aware of this phenomenon and to introduce more stringent provisions in community legislation to combat abuse. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − fiscal competition between eu countries has imposed restrictions on the room for manoeuvre of public policies. this competition led to the average cri rate falling from 44% in 1980 to 35% in 1995 and finally to 23,2% in 2010. the need to reverse this downward trend in irc rates and, when transferring dividends, to prevent tax evasion and to solve the problem of double taxation are the objectives of the directive to which this report refers. i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to combat tax evasion and to put an end to double taxation of companies which comply with their obligations.
in writing. - the process of community integration has left the tax systems of the member states almost entirely on the sidelines, where a strict notion of sovereignty - in this case, fiscal sovereignty - still prevails. however, this attitude of inertia has led to a veritable lex shopping (as the ecj, moreover, considers to be permissible for the formation of commercial companies), creating additional problems for the states. in the case of the tax system applicable to parent companies and affiliated companies, for example, the principle of double taxation often leads to the non-taxation of capital gains in the state in which the affiliated company is incorporated, to the benefit of the state of the parent company. this is problematic, since the location of the head office is chosen for reasons of tax competitiveness. the data is problematic: the eu corporate tax rate fell from 44% in 1980 to 35% in 1995. at present, it is 23.2%. it is therefore necessary to adopt a common policy to deal with this specific problem, where intervention by any one state alone would be bound to have little practical effect. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the council directive of 23 july 1990 on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different member states has been amended several times. since future changes to this regime are foreseen, a reformulation of the entire legislation is necessary for reasons of clarity and legal certainty. the european parliament has, however, decided to make some amendments to the proposal, in particular to limit extreme forms of under-taxation or non-taxation, which were unanimously adopted in the committee and which i supported in the vote on the document in plenary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financial rules applicable to the annual budget of the union, because it contains important proposals with a view to the objective of reviewing the mechanisms for budget implementation, which must be efficient, simple and transparent, and bringing them into line with the treaty of lisbon. the budget is a key instrument for implementing eu policies, and it is therefore important that its mechanisms are adapted to the current economic context and the future political challenges of the eu.
in writing. − in the current economic context, it is crucial that the financial mechanisms available to the european union and the citizens of the member states can operate as efficiently as possible in order to allow the implementation of european policies and to ensure maximum transparency in the use of taxpayers' money. the simplicity and transparency of the procedures and the reduction of the administrative and bureaucratic burden on the beneficiaries of european funds are essential to this. the amendments to the commission proposal, supported by the ppe group, improve the original text and are in line with the wishes of all those who would like to see a more agile, more dynamic and, at the same time, clearer european union in terms of the procedures it uses and the way it applies and makes available the funds at its disposal.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by ingeborg gräßle and crescenzio rivellini, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the european union. the budgetary principles and rules governing the establishment and implementation of the general budget of the eu are laid down in regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002, but the implementing provisions were laid down in commission regulation (ec, euratom) no 2342/2002 of 23 december 2002 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. at present, all legislation must be adapted to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in these terms, and taking into account both the report of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on regional development, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a parliament and council regulation on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the union. it should contribute to a better implementation of the union budget, which i hope will be directed towards growth, employment and innovation in the european union and towards support for development and democracy in neighbouring countries, as was advocated during the debate.
in writing. - the regulation on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the union is revised every three years, this being the first time that parliament has taken part in the co-decision procedure under the provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon. this is a regulation that is intended to be simple and efficient, optimising the results of political action. it also introduces accountability mechanisms, which are essential for the european parliament's role as a monitoring body. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. the european commission has drawn up a proposal for a regulation on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the union, which provides for the mobilisation of approximately eur 126 billion. in this regulation, the commission argues that the budget implementation mechanisms should work more efficiently and facilitate the implementation of eu policies, while ensuring simpler and more transparent use. i agree with the detailed content of the commission proposal, particularly in advocating increasing simplification of grant procedures, a more results-oriented approach and greater accountability of the member states in the implementation of the funds. i believe that the commission and the competent authorities in the member states must ensure that the actions financed by the budget are actually carried out, carry out checks and establish a rigorous, effective and consistent control system. i also believe that the eu budget should provide a catalyst for investment by the private sector, especially smes, thus supporting economic dynamism, job creation and wealth generation.
in writing. - 26 october 2011 i welcome the recommendations adopted for the creation of new jobs. it is important to invest more in job creation in order to create job opportunities and reduce social exclusion. smes in particular play a key role in economic development and job creation and the importance attached to them in this report should therefore be emphasised.
in writing. - i support this excellent report by mrs regina bastos, in which she strongly emphasises that greater balance and correspondence in labour market supply and demand will only be possible if there is a strengthening of human capital and employability through updating skills. among the measures proposed by the commission, i would like to stress the issue of flexicurity, i.e. greater flexibility in the labour market combined with a guarantee of a certain level of job security. in addition, the commission intends to make a significant effort to provide the necessary and appropriate incentives for individuals and businesses. this is important so that there can be investment in training and continuous updating of skills in response to changing labour markets. as mrs regina bastos points out, there is room for improvement. among the various suggestions it makes, i would like to stress the need to ensure a high level of quality in the monitoring and anticipation of those which will be the most appropriate and necessary skills for the future of students, as well as a reduction in the bureaucratic and administrative burden for smes, in order to facilitate and stimulate job creation.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague regina bastos on the measures proposed in this own-initiative report by the committee on employment and social affairs on the europe 2020 strategy, praising its relevance and, in particular, its scope and the concrete measures presented. the difficult world situation, as well as the constant and unpredictable economic, financial, budgetary and political-social developments on the one hand, raise new questions and force us to think of new legislative solutions for the future development of our society in the field of education and training, focusing, of course, on raising the employment rate in a sustained way in order to optimise the future benefits of our citizens. i therefore highlight the measures envisaged in this own-initiative report as a whole, reaffirming the importance of the europe 2020 strategy and in particular of the commission communication entitled 'agenda for new skills and jobs: a european contribution to full employment', and now expecting these objectives to be implemented in practical terms with vigor, without hesitation or doubt, by the member states and/or the eu institutions, as only in this way will good will be translated into consequential and positive measures for the future development of the union.
in writing. − the european ambition to become a leading region for employment and innovation is long-standing and has unfortunately proved unrealistic. the recent upsurge in other areas of the globe makes clear europe's limitations and the way in which the eu and its member states have failed to find solutions that overshadow the statements of intent they periodically issue. the current situation is serious and requires courage and creativity on the part of our leaders, as well as on the part of our societies, which have long been accustomed to a social model that is proving increasingly unsustainable. future generations will not forgive us if we do nothing about this and if we persist in not recognising the radical change that markets have undergone and which requires us to discuss the model of the state, the sustainability of social security, demography, the formatting of the employment relationship, education and research policies, among many other matters. the commission's proposal to create an agenda for new skills and new jobs, which i welcome, may be an interesting step in the right direction but, on its own, it will not be enough to reverse the downward cycle we are in.
in writing. − this report is part of the europe 2020 strategy and develops aspects of the europe 2020 strategy's objective of achieving a 75% employment rate for the 20-64 age group by 2020. it focuses mainly on intensifying labour market reform to implement flexicurity and adapting training and educational curricula to the needs of enterprises and the labour market. it also advocates raising the retirement age and points to the need to promote entrepreneurship as a way of reducing unemployment. that is to say, a throwback to the litany and the stale rhetoric of neoliberalism around the labour market. the objectives and priorities are the same as always: to satisfy the needs of the employers, using workers as cheap, disposable labour at the disposal of the employers, increasing exploitation and thus feeding a capitalist system in deep crisis and decay.
in writing. − this report on the agenda for new skills and new jobs, while addressing some positive points such as universal access to lifelong learning, social inclusion and the fight against discrimination, contains issues with which we cannot agree. we believe that investing in the promotion of entrepreneurship and self-employment is a measure designed to relieve the member states of the responsibility for job creation and thus to place all the responsibility on the citizens. we do not yet agree with the reinforcement of the rules on flexicurity, because this implies greater precariousness, less security and more flexibility. we advocate concrete measures for job creation in times of crisis and austerity. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the good work she has done in drawing up this report. i agree with the statement in the report that in order to develop effective employment, education and training policies and individual career choices, it is necessary to improve the capacity of the member states and the union to anticipate, anticipate and adapt future skills to labour market needs. this should be the cornerstone of the union's policies, i.e. seeking to match supply and demand to better serve its citizens. for these reasons i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - structurally, the employment problem is one of the key issues in macroeconomic analysis and social reality. if, in the first perspective, it is the main factor of production, in the light of a second perspective, it is the privileged path to personal fulfilment and well-being. an employment agenda cannot ignore either of these two dimensions: the european union's economic development itself requires the availability of resources fit for work, and this is probably the most delicate problem facing political power, given its deep involvement in social reality. an employment agenda must therefore be based on high levels of training for workers and a regulatory framework that turns innovation and business development into incentives for people. in turn, job security should not be seen as an end in itself to the employment relationship but should be reduced to a guarantee for the worker, given the profound asymmetry of the employment relationship. we are facing one of the great challenges for the future of europe. i have voted in favour of this understanding, as explained.
in writing. - the economic, financial and social crisis has highlighted the weaknesses of the european economic and social model and has helped to undo much of the progress achieved. since the first effects of the crisis on labour markets in 2008, europe has already lost 5.6 million jobs and there are currently 23 051 million unemployed in the european union, corresponding to 9.5% of the active population. in november 2010, and as part of the eu 2020 strategy, the commission adopted the proposal for a communication entitled 'an agenda for new skills and jobs: a european contribution to full employment', which represents its contribution to the 2020 target of a 75% employment rate for the 20-64 age group. in line with the commission's approach, i support the parliament's document which considers that there is room for improvement, in particular as regards reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden for smes, early school leaving, reconciling family and working life, monitoring and anticipating future skills needed, measures for the integration of young people into the labour market, flexicurity standards and the improvement of standards for the posting of workers and the mutual recognition of qualifications.
the european parliament has visited refugee camps in syria and it has been difficult to explain to the people in the refugee camps how the process could be delayed because of a blockade which has nothing to do with the content of the co-decision itself, which was adopted in this parliament a year and a half ago with a very large majority in favour and which has also received support on several occasions in the debates we have had from the commission and the council. it was difficult to explain that this process was blocked by article 290 of the lisbon treaty, on delegated acts, which, of course, those refugees, some of the most vulnerable people in the world, did not know and should not have known. however, there have been several attempts to unblock this issue, we had a proposal from the hungarian presidency in may, to which we responded with a counterproposal from parliament itself in june, and we have been waiting until now for a response from the council which finally defines the codecision which we started a year and a half ago and which allows, among other things, to increase the funds available to member states to make voluntary resettlement. and it is important to add voluntary, it is the member states that decide to start their refugee resettlement processes and decide the numbers of the refugee resettlement process and therefore they do not have to fear any kind of imposition, neither from the commission nor from parliament. the council must simply decide on codecision in this area. however, people have already died, and we could have taken care of them when emergency situations arose in the mediterranean if the codecision had been approved with its mechanism for emergency resettlement of refugees, and today, that is the only good news, we have saved that part of the codecision by approving it through a pilot project of this parliament itself. so parliament did its homework a year and a half ago and continues to work tirelessly on behalf of refugees, the most vulnerable and relatively few people on the planet. i shall end my question directly to the council by asking three very specific questions: firstly, what is the council's view of the counter-proposal sent by parliament in june? secondly, what ideas does the council have for determining this codecision? and thirdly, whether the council is prepared, together with parliament and the commission, to enter into a very rapid negotiation process in order to be able to close this dossier by the end of the polish presidency, without which we will lose not one or two months, but two whole years of resettlement of refugees, with the suffering that this implies for people who are waiting and despairing in refugee camps and who may be at risk of feeding into the human trafficking networks.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the polish presidency understands the concerns expressed by the honourable members, which relate to the postponement of the establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme by adopting a proposal to amend the decision establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013. we would like to recall that the current european refugee fund for 2008-2013 identifies resettlement as one of the desirable actions. in addition, since 2008, a significant amount of funding has been allocated to this purpose under the european refugee fund. under current rules, member states are entitled to claim eur 4 000 for each resettled person belonging to one of the categories defined in the relevant decision. the main objective of the proposed amendments to the decision establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013 is to enable the establishment of common annual union priorities in the field of resettlement. this would mean that resettlement actions at union level would be better coordinated and concentrated. it is also important that the annual priorities would include certain specific categories which are partially listed in the current decision on the european refugee fund. for example, one of the categories of persons eligible for financial support from the european fund is those from a country or region covered by a regional protection programme. the regional protection programme was established in april 2010. it shall cover north african displaced persons eligible for funding under the current refugee fund. the same applies to particularly vulnerable groups, such as children and women at risk, and to people requiring special medical care. 7 member states: belgium, denmark, finland, ireland, the netherlands, portugal and sweden offered the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees 408 places to resettle people from the north africa region. despite the fact that participation in resettlement activities is voluntary, the european parliament has suggested that further financial incentives be adopted to involve more member states by increasing the amounts of funding available. the amount requested is eur 6 000 per resettled person for a member state benefiting from the fund for the first time and eur 5 000 per resettled person for a member state which has benefited from the fund in the past. the council could support the above assumptions. however, the council cannot support the suggestion of the european parliament to apply the procedure for delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu for the adoption of the annual union priorities on resettlement. the council's position is based on the explanations provided by the european commission concerning the timeframe imposed by the programming cycle linked to the operation of the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. the council supports the commission's view that the establishment of annual priorities in the field of resettlement is purely implementing in nature, as it concerns the application of the specific principles laid down in the decision on a specific situation. the council is seeking a solution to this issue, also taking into account the alternative approach presented in may this year, which would avoid the need for delegated acts. however, the polish presidency regrets that a mutually acceptable solution to this particular issue has not yet been found and that, as a result, the decision in question has not yet been adopted in its entirety. given that resettlement activities can be financed from the current refugee fund and given that there is only one year cycle left under the current programme, the polish presidency considers that it would be better to continue the discussion on the establishment of a joint union resettlement programme in the context of the next programming period.
the council has already presented a counter-proposal without delegated acts in june and therefore the question here was what the council thinks of the proposal without delegated acts and whether it is prepared to negotiate with parliament to find a compromise.
mr president, i think this debate is of the utmost importance and i would like to thank those who have taken the initiative to hold it. antimicrobial resistance, and in particular antibiotic resistance, is a growing problem. the fact that 25,000 people die in the european union every year is not justified, and it is not insignificant that many people end up trying to treat their illness and die from the cure because they are infected by resistant bacteria. and that is why health, not being a business, cannot be dependent on the interest or lack of interest of the pharmaceutical industry in developing new medicines. this is just a symptom, it is a symptom of two things in particular: a symptom of the lack of public investment in this field, firstly, and a symptom of what has been the misuse of antibiotics, secondly, and here i would like to highlight in particular the food industry and the use that has been made. and that's why, as this is a public health problem, an economic problem, a social problem, a clinical problem, we have to go far beyond the production of new drugs. what is at stake here is new research, new innovation, going beyond redundancy, but also knowing how to do better in terms of prevention and better in terms of moderating the uses we have of antibiotics. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good one.
international law sets high standards for the protection of children, but its implementation at national level often fails to ensure adequate protection for children. national legislation covers some of these problems to varying degrees, but is not sufficiently rigorous or coherent to provide a vigorous social and criminal response. the new directive should ensure a comprehensive regulatory framework covering the following aspects: repression; effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminalisation of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children through the introduction of stricter penalties and new types of criminal offences; strengthening the protection of victims through appropriate and continuous assistance, always taking into account the best interests of the child; and preventing, through dissuasive measures, demand reduction and measures to reduce the risk of children becoming victims. appropriate and effective research techniques and instruments are also needed, as well as awareness raising and education activities and the establishment of helplines. however, it is imperative that the policy objectives outlined by the commission in the eu programme on the rights of the child can also be translated into concrete action as soon as possible.
in a conversation with the australian authorities about this pnr, they explained to me what was needed for a citizen, a passenger on an airplane, to have enhanced surveillance at the australian borders: that the name on the airline ticket was not consistent with the name on the credit card, for example, sudden changes in travel plans and passage through countries considered dangerous. i found this curious because in my case, with my portuguese name with five surnames, or two personal names and three family names, i was in all those categories for some of the reasons, because i was in the service of this very parliament. but this story has a slightly broader meaning, which is important for citizens to know: and what's happening with this new kind of investigative paradigm is that we're being investigated even when we're innocent or not suspected, and at the time when we're going to vote on a first pnr agreement, which is the first time we're legalizing this kind of transfer here in parliament, it's very important that citizens know and we haven't been clear enough about it. very briefly, i'm concerned about several things in this agreement, about the congruence of our arguments regarding the time of data storage. we in europe talk about months, in this agreement, they're going to be stored for five and a half years. with the questions of proportionality and whether a criterion of proportionality has been adopted or not, the rapporteur herself, in her explanatory note, says that this criterion of proportionality is not exactly proven. and here i must say that i am very sorry that i will not be voting in the same way as the rapporteur, who is a colleague who i have no doubt has the greatest concerns about the freedoms, civil rights and privacy of european citizens, but i do not yet think that this agreement constitutes a good standard for what the other foreign countries will later ask us to say they gave to the australians and now give to the united states, saudi arabia or korea.
mr president, your speech was interesting, but i have a question for you. does he not think that the big winner of this summit was financial capital which is still able to speculate at will, to take refuge in tax havens and offshore, to use the money which the workers and the people will have to pay for the so-called austerity policies, as in portugal, greece, etc., to be transferred to the banks for their recapitalisation?
mr president, i would naturally like to begin by congratulating the presidents of the council and the commission for the effort they have made during these days, when, although, as the president of the commission said, it is a marathon, it is not common to sprint halfway through the marathon with such intensity, and i would therefore like to congratulate them and thank them for their efforts, and of course commissioner olli rehn. that said, i would like to say that, although the signs are very positive, i think it was important to make it clearer what the roadmap is, what the roadmap is, what the plan is for economic growth, particularly for that part of europe, which is the southernmost part, which is at present at risk of economic depression, and on the other hand, i also think it was clearer, that more was expected, to know what the way forward is in terms of amendment to the treaties, in terms of treaty change? what proposals, what guidelines are on the table? in any case, i would like to say here in this parliament, which is also a political arena, that i am sure that during the year and a half or almost two years of our crisis, both the president of the commission and the president of the council, who are known europeanists, have done everything possible to ensure that this problem is resolved sooner and perhaps we, who are members on behalf of the national states, should be more critical of our national governments for not having lived up to the european spirit that is in the hearts and minds of these two leaders who are here today.
mr president, sixteen of the twenty portuguese companies listed on the stock exchange have their tax domicile in the netherlands, two in luxembourg and one in the cayman islands so that they do not have to pay taxes in portugal and do not even have to declare their earnings in angola, brazil or china. there will be no economic governance in the euro zone, no common market, no means of financing growth and employment and of getting out of the crisis without fiscal harmonization and the fight against tax evasion in the european union. the cancer of the offshore that is afflicting the political capacity of our governments is inside untouched by the merkozy directory of the neoliberal right that is running europe. if the commission and the council are now going to bring the draft financial transaction tax to the g20, why not start dismantling offshore and tax rivalries within the european union itself? instead, the merkozy directory is waving treaty changes at them and preparing to leverage the fund at the expense of the chinese, dangerously putting the euro and the european union at the mercy of the designs of an instrumental dictatorship, one of the most savage forms of capitalism and a violation of the rights of those who work. how can citizens trust the banks and our governments again under the merkozy directory?
mr president, the big winner of these summits continues to be financial capital with its offshore, tax havens, derivatives and speculative products, protected by the german-led board. the major absentees from the conclusions are the workers and the people of our member states, especially those with the weakest economies. apparently, the banks are supporting the reduction of 50% of greek debt, which they helped to increase with speculative interest. but it is public funds that will pay for its recapitalisation, which, in a real act of public plunder, is obtained by impoverishing the people, by cutting wages and social benefits, by increasing the working day and by mass privatisations and by making it impossible for economic and financial groups to continue their gains. we therefore support the solidarity and struggles of the workers, as in portugal, on 24 november, in the general strike that will take place there.
in writing. - i approve of this report, as it has followed the usual procedures, respected the deadlines required for its submission, and gives a clear description of the work of the committee. i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of this body for receiving complaints concerning cases of maladministration in the activities of the institutions of the european union. the right to lodge a complaint with the european ombudsman is provided for in article 24 tfeu and article 43 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. − this report, by ms iliana malinova iotova, concerns the ombudsman's annual report for the year 2010. this is the first report drawn up by the european ombudsman, mr nikiforos diamandouros, after he took up his duties before the court of justice of the european union on 25 october 2010, following his re-election. the institution, chaired by nikiforos diamandouros, celebrated its 15th anniversary in september 2010 and, during its 15 years of existence, completed more than 3 800 inquiries and handled some 36 000 complaints relating to maladministration in the activities of the eu institutions, i.e. when a public body does not act in accordance with a rule or principle to which it is bound. one of the main complaints is the difficulty that citizens have in accessing eu documents. although the existence of confidential documentation is understood, the institutions cannot make life difficult for the citizen in this field. i welcome the adoption of this report, i hope that the ombudsman will be able to achieve the objectives set out in his new strategy for the 2009-2014 mandate and i hope that european citizens will be better informed about his role.
in writing. − the ombudsman's annual report enables me to check the work done in implementing his tasks and objectives. given that the ombudsman has the right to examine the substance of the commission's actions and findings when investigating complaints of infringements, it is important to check what is happening with the complaints lodged and to follow the progress of the case. for example, it can be checked whether the ombudsman's views are reasonable, well reasoned and fully and clearly explained to the complainants. it states that the ombudsman was able to help complainants in 70% of all cases handled in 2010 by opening an inquiry himself, transferring the complaint to a competent body at eu or national level, or giving advice to the complainant on where to go. the 2010 annual report pays particular attention to the new strategy that the ombudsman and his staff have formulated for his 2009-2014 mandate. the objectives are, inter alia, to hear stakeholders by obtaining information from complainants, to broaden and deepen contacts with the eu institutions, to identify best practices for achieving faster results by reducing the time needed to close investigations, and to develop simplified procedures to promote the swift resolution of complaints.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2010. the annual report for 2010 submitted to the european parliament gives special attention to the new strategy that the ombudsman and his staff have formulated for his 2009-2014 mandate. the objectives are not only to hear from stakeholders, to obtain information from complainants, to broaden and deepen contacts with the eu institutions and civil society, and to identify best practices, but also to achieve results more quickly by reducing the time needed to close investigations and to develop simplified procedures to promote the rapid resolution of complaints. i believe that these are worthy and necessary objectives for an institution which is often the last resort of the citizen to see his problem with the administration resolved.
in writing. - the ombudsman, whose statute is already enshrined in article 228 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is a guarantee for community citizens in their relations with the european institutions (cf. article 43 tfeu). it is a public office with two central functions: on the one hand, it is a means of resolving disputes outside the formal control bodies, such as the courts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time when the ombudsman presents his annual report is always appropriate in this respect to withdraw references for the future. community policy should therefore continue to support its work by seeking to disseminate information on its activities and functions, since in countries with little tradition of having an ombudsman, such as portugal, citizens are often unaware of this instrument of appeal. it is also important to establish a climate of cooperation between the community institutions in order to maximise the contribution of the ombudsman. i have voted in favour of these points, as they are now being considered by the european parliament.
in writing. − the eu charter of fundamental rights recognises a set of personal, civic, political, economic and social rights of citizens and residents, incorporating them into community law. while article 41 sets out how citizens' affairs are to be dealt with, article 43 stresses the right to petition the ombudsman in cases of maladministration by various european institutions. i agree with this report because it shows that the eu has made an effort to reduce the average time to complete investigations, to continue to insist on the fundamental right of access to documents and to promote citizens' trust in the public service and the eu institutions. i would also like to congratulate the ombudsman on his strategy of focusing on the ongoing dialogue with complainants, civil society and other stakeholders, and on his efforts to identify best practices adopted by his colleagues in the european network of ombudsmen and to make procedures in the eu fairer and, above all, more transparent.
in writing. - with this proposal for a directive, the commission proposes to promote the fight against sexual exploitation and abuse and against the representation of sexual practices by persons under the age of 18. the proposal is based on the observation that criminal acts in this area are increasing. the development of modern media aggravates the problem further, and the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in the eu member states are neither sufficiently stringent nor sufficiently coherent. the proposal contains provisions defining infringements and fixing penalties. it is stressed, however, that content in electronic media depicting sexual acts with persons under 18 years of age should be removed as soon as possible. the blockages are ineffective, imprecise and can be neutralized without much difficulty. what we need is a multi-dimensional strategy that strengthens and improves cooperation between police services, internet operators, the existing internet complaints bodies and the inhope network of internet service providers.
in writing. − the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography, constitute serious violations of fundamental rights, in particular the right of the child to protection and care necessary for his or her well-being, as set out in the united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this report provides for stricter criminal sanctions against those who sexually abuse children or who access child pornography on the internet. it also obliges member states to remove websites containing child pornography. if this is not possible, they should block access to those pages. it criminalises the solicitation of children via the internet for sexual purposes and child sex tourism, whether the offence is committed on the territory of a member state or by a european citizen outside europe. it also provides that persons convicted of sexual offences may be temporarily or permanently prevented from engaging in any activities, at least professional, involving direct and regular contact with children. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive which provides for stricter criminal sanctions against persons who sexually abuse children or who access child pornography on the internet. studies show that between 10 and 20% of children in europe experience some form of sexual abuse. i agree with the proposed rules in the directive which also oblige member states to remove websites containing child pornography or, if this is not possible, allow them to block access to such pages.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of criminal sanctions against those who commit crimes against children. i stress the importance of the new rules, already agreed with the eu council of ministers, also obliging member states to remove websites containing child pornography and to strengthen measures to prevent these crimes and protect victims.
in writing. - i consider that the sexual exploitation and abuse of children and child pornography are particularly serious crimes because they are committed against persons who, because of their age, are weaker and often dependent on their aggressors, and are therefore more exposed to all kinds of abuse and violence. legislation is urgently needed to establish common measures to combat crimes related to child pornography and sexual exploitation of children, many of which are committed online; european rules to allow effective action to be taken against websites with paedophilic content or encouraging paedophilia, as well as child pornography websites, and to punish their users; and tougher measures for those who commit crimes of sexual exploitation and abuse of children. the convention on the rights of the child refers to the right to full and harmonious development. it also includes the right to protection against all forms of physical or mental violence, harm or injury, neglect or negligent treatment, ill-treatment or exploitation, including sexual violence. let us not let these be just rights written on a piece of paper.
in writing. - child abuse and exploitation and child pornography are unacceptable activities in a free and responsible society. unfortunately, poverty and the underdevelopment of some countries are giving rise to these practices, which, thanks to the new information highways, are finding favourable conditions for their proliferation. the report, drawn up by roberta angelilli, deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the prevention of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography and repeals framework decision 2004/68/jha. between 10 and 20% of children are at risk of being victims of sexual violence. a child who is a victim of sexual violence is scarred for life. the current legislation is outdated, so it is of crucial importance that a directive is adopted to ensure a higher level of protection for minors both within and outside the european union. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that this directive will be adopted by all member states as soon as possible, because any sexual abuse of children is unacceptable and it is urgent to put an end to the sex tourism of minors and to put an end to the misuse of images of children on the internet.
in writing. - the sexual abuse and exploitation of children are horrendous crimes which must be prevented and combated. this report proposes to move forward with some instruments to do so, some of them sound and positive. however, alongside these, provisions are being introduced which give rise to our greatest reservations and concerns, such as those allowing access to certain internet sites and blocking them. we certainly agree that the circulation of child abuse and child pornography on the internet must be severely combated and stopped, but this can only be done effectively by removing the source of such material. the provisions in this report do not provide a complete and sufficient guarantee that blocking websites - the possibility of which is used for the first time in eu legislation, thus creating a precedent - will not pave the way for forms of censorship on the internet and in other areas. it should also be noted that the issue of sexual exploitation of minors cannot be dissociated from the social conditions in which these minors are found, as it is known that children from poor backgrounds and families face a higher risk of being the target of this type of crime. these causes must also be severely combated.
in writing. the report addresses an important issue in the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and in the fight against paedophilia. we stress as a priority the need to strengthen and create more conditions for the condemnation of all these crimes. however, it seems to us that it is essential to focus this discussion on the victims themselves, in this case children, who suffer from atrocious violence against their physical and psychological integrity, and it is therefore essential to accompany the victims and their families throughout their lives. we also have some reservations about the standardisation of legislation in this area, which could be a problem in terms of the resolution of these crimes themselves. we also stress that the reality of sexual exploitation of minors, especially children in disadvantaged socioeconomic situations, cannot be tolerated or ignored. as we know, these questions are never random, and here again class issues are well denoted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive which provides for stricter criminal sanctions against persons who sexually abuse children or who access child pornography on the internet. this is one of the most heinous crimes in our societies today and it requires a determined fight on several converging fronts. the rules voted on were agreed with the eu council of ministers and also oblige member states to remove websites containing child pornography and to strengthen measures to prevent these crimes and protect victims.
in writing. - the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography have in recent years jumped into the centre of public debate. in fact, it is a practice which decisively constrains the sphere of self-determination of abused children, often with reflexes that protect them throughout their lives. on the other hand, the demand for these products maximises abuse, fuelling the illegal trafficking of children and related products, contributing to the continuation of a practice that is completely out of the way of modern society. however, the current media society provides a wide range of media which facilitate international trafficking networks in an unprecedented way. if we add to this the community space as the space of freedoms, we see that any effective response can only come from the common level. that is the laudable purpose of this directive, which we have seen at first reading, and which deserves our applause.
in writing. - according to unicef data, 1 million children are used in the child pornography industry, generating some 20 billion euros. the vulnerability of children requires that measures to be taken against sexual abuse and exploitation be concrete and that the protection of children be guaranteed by national institutions. the effects of ill-treatment are often permanent and the physical, psychological and social damage to the victims and their families is permanent. i therefore vote in favour of this report, which broadens the legal concept of child and adolescent (anyone under 18 has the right to be protected against sexual exploitation) and the specific use of the terms child pornography, child sex tourism and grooming for the purpose of criminalisation. i would also like to mention the measures to be applied by the member states to remove and block, preferably outside the eu's jurisdiction, internet sites containing abusive images or child pornography. criminalization and prevention are as important as support and assistance to the victim. that is why it is necessary to eliminate all taboos and stigmas about abuse and ill-treatment so that victims are not afraid to report.
in writing. − the stockholm programme reiterated the objective of creating by 2012 a common area of protection and solidarity, based on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for beneficiaries of international protection. the principles underlying this directive which is one of the five eu legislative instruments essential for the establishment of a common european asylum system should thus be confirmed, as should the pursuit of a greater degree of approximation of the rules on the recognition and content of international protection, including through the application of clearer and more effective rules. i therefore support this report, which, while not proposing any substantive amendment to this directive, merely codifies the provisions of the previous acts and introduces minor amendments which are intended to address minor shortcomings in the implementation of this directive. i would remind you of the need for regular assessment of the application of this directive by the member states, taking particular account of the evolution of their international non-refoulement obligations, the evolution of labour markets in the member states and the development of common basic principles of integration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that all judicial proceedings against senior officials of the current and former ukrainian government should be conducted in accordance with european standards of fairness, impartiality, transparency and independence. i believe that strengthening the rule of law and carrying out internal reform, including a credible fight against corruption, are essential for deepening eu-ukraine relations, but also for consolidating democracy in ukraine.
in writing. - a european union which does not intend to be a fortress europe but rather a community of values cannot fail to be sensitive to the conditions and circumstances of those who, being daily victims of conflict and political persecution, seek protection within its borders. the european area is now a region in which human rights, individual freedoms and democracy are guaranteed to all its residents by the authorities of the member states which make it up. since the refugee question began to be raised, the densification and delimitation of the concept have been the subject of controversy. this situation still exists today. i agree with the european effort to identify minimum conditions to be met by those seeking refuge within the union, but i am wary of the risks that these are too broad and may encourage fraud and abuse. i also do not believe that states which are faced with major strains in their social security systems can be in a position to grant generous social benefits, which risk being or becoming unfair, to all those who apply for them.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by jean lambert, presents a proposal for a european parliament and council directive laying down minimum standards on the conditions for third-country nationals or stateless persons to be eligible for international protection and on the content of the protection granted, which is based on a commission proposal to recast the original directive 2004/83/ec. the european union, aware of the political problems in many non-democratic countries where many people are struggling for their right to freedom, intends to implement a common asylum policy, as refugee reception practices vary from one member state to another, despite all the support provided by the new european asylum support office. i welcome the adoption of this report which will allow for the establishment of a more concrete legislative framework so that all refugees can enjoy equal treatment in all member states, especially with regard to social security, integration measures (and protection where necessary) and residence permits. the eu must continue to be an example of freedom, tolerance and respect for human rights.
in writing. - this report, on the conditions to be met by third country nationals or stateless persons in order to be eligible for international protection, focuses on the important and, unfortunately, very topical issue of refugees. this is an area which must be treated with the utmost care and promote full respect for human dignity, especially when we are talking about refugees who have already been hit by very difficult situations in their countries of origin, often coming from war zones, as in the recent example of libya, a country which is now experiencing a dramatic reality also at this level, to which nato's aggression and the bombings that this war organization, with the support of the eu, has launched on the country have contributed. however, we are not following the guidelines and proposals contained in the report. we believe that this question of protection and asylum must fully respect the sovereignty of the member states, and that it is for them to lay down their own conditions of asylum policy, without prejudice to the agreements which they may decide to make in the exercise of that sovereignty.
in writing. - the theme of this report on international protection focuses on the issue of refugees, who must be treated with the utmost care and respect for human dignity, especially when we are talking about refugees who are already suffering from their own situation, and who often come from war situations, as in the recent example of libya. we stress, however, the importance of raising the question of protection and asylum in the member states themselves. since this issue is closely linked to the sovereignty of the member states, it is up to the countries themselves to set their own conditions for asylum policy.
in writing. − although we didn’t agree to the splitting of the vote on this directive from the vote on the five other remaining instruments (dublin ii, eurodac, reception conditions, procedures and resettlement) because the new wave of instruments on asylum were basically treated together up to now in order to have a stronger position in the negotiation with the other eu institutions, we have voted in favour of this directive because it implies an increase in the protection afforded to asylum seekers and a step in the right direction for many vulnerable people. we consider it particularly important that the text in question aims to approximate the protection given to refugees, on one hand, and to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection, on the other hand. this will act to remind implementing authorities in the member states that the two categories of protection are complementary: subsidiary protection is not of less importance for those at risk of serious harm if they return to their country of origin.
in writing. - this report concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council directive laying down minimum standards on the conditions to be met by third-country nationals or stateless persons in order to be eligible for international protection and on the content of the protection granted. the revision of this directive has already been discussed in the light of the lisbon treaty, the ordinary legislative procedure (ex-co-decision) and forms an integral part of a move towards a common european asylum policy by 2012. the differences between member states in the implementation of community rules mean that the legislative framework (the directive itself) needs to be clarified in order to establish a clearer and more rigorous framework for the implementation process. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the directive currently under discussion on the minimum rules on the conditions for third-country nationals or stateless persons to be eligible for international protection and the content of the protection granted is a recast of directive 2004/83/ec. it should be noted, however, that the degree of involvement of the european parliament in both cases varies. while its powers were initially purely advisory, the treaty of lisbon now allows it to act in co-decision on these matters. in a matter of the highest political importance, the need to ensure greater harmonisation of the action of the various member states in granting international protection is emphasised. it is also justified to adopt measures to ensure the integration of beneficiaries of protection into the community area, providing conditions for their access to the labour market from the outset. the role of the states as the primary actors in the granting of aid is also highlighted. i have seen these points reflected in the proposal which has been tabled and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the recast directive aims to establish a uniform basis for the treatment of cases of third-country nationals or stateless persons in need of protection as refugees or persons eligible for subsidiary protection, as regards the conditions to be fulfilled in order to qualify for international protection. this amendment is part of the eu's legislative work towards a common european asylum policy. the aim of the recast proposal is to adopt a common definition of the conditions for international protection and to ensure minimum levels of benefits common to the member states, in particular in terms of social security, access to employment and health, integration measures and residence permits. in addition, grounds relating to harassment have been broadened to include gender and gender identity and the care of unaccompanied minors. the ep also called for the commission to be given the right to adopt a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. solidarity, a core value of the eu, must not be reproduced only within the borders of the member states. i therefore consider the adoption of this report to be an important step towards creating a genuine european area of asylum and protection.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road.
in writing. − issues concerning the processing and transfer of personal data are always particularly complex, given the multiple human rights and security issues they raise. the attacks of 11 september 2001 have highlighted the weaknesses of airport security systems and have led to an understanding shared by the majority of democratic states and governments that there are indeed limitations to the right to privacy and the inviolability of personal data and that these are justified only in situations where the safety and life of others may be at stake. australia is a state governed by the rule of law, which deserves the respect of all the member states of the european union and is heir to our common tradition of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. like all legal instruments, the agreement may be improved in the future, but i do not think that its present wording justifies its being referred to the court of justice. i would also recommend caution and restraint in resorting to this type of procedure, which cannot and should not be trivialised or hijacked by maximalist agendas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it necessary and useful to ask the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility with the treaties of the agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of eu-generated passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the australian customs and border protection.
in writing. the agreement concluded between the eu and australia (see the respective statement of vote) raises highly sensitive issues because of its subject matter. in fact, data protection is considered to be one of the greatest challenges facing the law today. the unprecedented ability to store and process them by means of computer software suggests the emergence of new forms of invasion of the private sphere of citizens. however, it does not seem appropriate in this context to call on the court of justice of the european union to assess the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties. in fact, in this particular case, it would not seem appropriate to act, given the protection efforts already made by the european parliament and the inevitable delays that would ensue from the intervention of the court of justice. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected against the threat of terrorism and to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected against the threat of terrorism. the basis for such a request is the alleged legal uncertainty as to its compliance with european data protection legislation and also the alleged doubts as to the choice of the legal basis for it. but i do not think that these reasons are valid, and that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution, together with the ppe group to which i belong, in the european parliament.
in writing. − this agreement should replace the 2008 interim agreement, applied only in 17 member states, which established a european legal framework on the conditions for the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by airlines to australian customs services. i support this agreement as it relates to the global approach to the transfer of eu pnr data to third countries. the criteria set out by the ep were satisfactory: the purpose is clearly and strictly limited, the transfer is carried out only through the push data export method, the possibility of using sensitive data is explicitly excluded, citizens are guaranteed the possibility of bringing administrative and judicial proceedings in australia, as well as guarantees in terms of access, rectification, deletion and security of their data. i agree with the rapporteur that we could have gone further and that there are still some concerns, but the great objective of ensuring that any transfer of data from the eu can only be done in full compliance with european data protection standards has been achieved! this agreement seems to be a success and i hope it will serve as an inspiration for the next agreement to be concluded with the united states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-australia agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data, as i consider that it includes the necessary provisions to protect fundamental rights and respect the privacy of eu citizens. however, some criteria have not been fully met and therefore some concerns remain, and i therefore welcome the commission's commitment to submit proposals for the suspension or termination of the agreement at the request of the european parliament.
in writing. − issues concerning the processing and transfer of personal data are always particularly complex, given the multiple human rights and security issues they raise. the attacks of 11 september 2001 have highlighted the weaknesses of airport security systems and have led to an understanding shared by the majority of democratic states and governments that there are indeed limitations to the right to privacy and the inviolability of personal data and that these are justified only in situations where the safety and life of others may be at stake. criticism of this majority view is well known from some quarters who seek to assert the primacy of individual privacy over collective security, but nevertheless their arguments do not seem to be of a persuasive nature to those who board airplanes and who, for the most part, do not mind sharing their personal data knowing that they are thereby limiting the capacity for action and impunity of terrorists. the agreement between the european union and australia seeks to strike a reasonable balance between the rights and interests at stake.
in writing. − the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data to third countries, especially since the air attacks of 11 september 2001, has been receiving increased attention from airport authorities. data such as names, addresses, passport numbers, credit card details and travel itineraries are involved. this recommendation concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union (eu) and australia on the processing and transfer of eu-generated pnr data by air carriers to the australian customs and border protection service. this agreement arises from the need to adapt european legislation to australian legislation and must be framed within the codecision procedure which derives from the lisbon treaty. following the negotiations between the commission and australia, which started in january 2011, the commission sent a recommendation to the council on 19 may 2011 to conclude and sign the agreement, which was to be done on 29 september 2011. in this context, i welcome further progress in eu-australia relations which will protect european citizens.
in writing. the eu and australia have reached an agreement on the processing and sharing of pnr data by air carriers. it is clearly part of a security policy, which has at the heart of its argument the alleged fight against terrorism. as we know, many paths have been taken in the name of this crusade, which calls into question fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees, as well as elementary democratic values. the report continues along these lines, under the pretext of trying to regulate the exchange and sharing of data, rather than giving a clear signal of rejection of this security gap, by valuing the protection of citizens' data. the reference to the sovereignty of third countries as a way of justifying the sharing of data is nothing more than a demagogic argument from an eu which, in its various sectoral policies, is calling into question this sovereignty, especially at the economic level. it is significant and illustrative that the majority of parliament rejected a proposal from our group to have the legality of the agreement assessed by the european court of justice. confirming the relevance of the doubts that arise about its own legality. we will not trade freedom for security, because in the end, we will lose both. we stand for a safer society with broad democratic rights and freedoms.
in writing. the report on the eu-australia agreement on the processing and sharing of pnr data by carriers in certain areas takes on dangerous connotations, since it is part of a security policy, focused on the alleged fight against terrorism, and, as we know, freedoms, guarantees and democratic values have been called into question. the report justifies the measures outlined and assesses the eu-australia agreement on the assumption that countries can and will continue to demand the data they deem necessary and that therefore it is ideal to try to regulate this exchange and sharing of data. we also stress the reference to the sovereignty of third countries as a way of justifying the sharing of data. this demagogic argument from the european union once again shows its true character. we regret that this question of sovereignty is not raised with such vehemence when we talk about the economic sovereignty of countries. information sharing is a key pillar in opening the door to the abuses listed above. we support the need to combat all forms of crime, but this must be done above all at the source and at the prevention. we will not trade freedom for more security, because in the end we will lose both.
in writing. − the eu-australia agreement on the transfer of pnr (passenger name record data) data does not meet the guarantees requested by the ep in its previous resolutions. the commission has neither presented factual evidence supporting the claim that storage and processing of pnr for law enforcement purposes is necessary and proportionate, nor has it seriously explored less-intrusive alternatives. in particular, the agreement foresees an unjustified storage period of five and a half years, does not contain adequate safeguards to prevent discriminatory profiling and raises serious concerns regarding compatibility of the agreement with the charter of fundamental rights, as well as with the case law of the echr. furthermore, the commission has ignored parliament’s request to ask the eu agency for fundamental rights for an opinion on the fundamental rights dimension of the agreement. we stress our commitment to cooperating with australia and other third countries, but believe the blanket retention and processing of the pnr data of all passengers is incompatible with our vision of an open society. for this reason we voted against the report and supported the gue/ngl resolution seeking an opinion from the european court of justice on the legality of the agreement.
in writing. the european union is negotiating three international agreements with australia, canada and the usa on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data. this data is provided by passengers and collected by air carriers, which use it for their ticketing, reservation and check-in systems. the rapporteur is concerned, and i share her view, about the proportionality of the collection and storage of massive amounts of data. for this reason and because of the other comments made in the libe report, i approve this report.
in writing. - australian legislation requires airlines to provide the local customs service with passenger identification data before arrival. this practice threatens the guarantees of data protection and has therefore led to the intervention of the community institutions. in this context, it seems that a negotiation between the two spaces cannot be avoided: in fact, in the absence of agreement, australian law tends to remain applicable. it is therefore desirable to find a balanced solution, assuming that any access to passenger data should be considered exceptional, and that its use and storage should be guided by the principles of necessity, appropriateness and proportionality in the strict sense. in this context, the european parliament must take a leading position in defending the fundamental rights of community citizens. as i see these concerns reflected in the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data, i voted in favour of approving the agreement.
in writing. − the australian customs service wanted to assess the risks of european passengers of international air carriers, based on their passenger identification register (pnr) data, and ran into a problem with european data protection legislation. at the council meeting of 30 june 2008, member states established a cooperation agreement with australia for the transfer of data by air carriers to the australian customs services. however, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the ordinary legislative procedure, which requires the consent of the european parliament, has begun to apply to the negotiation of international agreements. in an increasingly globalised world, where the safety of citizens must be constantly ensured by the competent authorities, and given the good application of most of the criteria defined, i agree with this agreement between the eu and australia. i would also like to stress that the eu cannot prohibit third countries from collecting, storing and using pnr data, but can only define the conditions for the transfer of such data and whether it complies with its data protection rules.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, taking into account that freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought are fundamental and universal rights and essential values of democracy. it is the duty of the european union to ensure these freedoms and values throughout the world, particularly in those countries which have been weakened by recent internal strife.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in egypt and syria, in particular the situation of christian communities, because freedom of religion, belief, expression and thought are universal fundamental values and essential elements of democracy which must be guaranteed by governments of states all over the world.
in writing. - the hardworking and peaceful christian communities in syria and egypt should be accorded the utmost respect and protection by all those who value the dignity of human life and the religious sentiments of minorities. the participation of all in the reconstruction of their societies is essential if they are to live up to the hopes, dreams and ambitions of their citizens. they have repeatedly called for the establishment of full democracies and the rule of law in their countries, which respect their culture and traditions. they also include the christian legacy of their people. the arab spring is a symbol for all those who aspire to dignity, democracy and human rights in the arab world. peaceful demonstrations involving citizens of various backgrounds were severely repressed by the security forces in those countries. parliament must support the efforts of those who are fighting for freedom and for an end to violence against the people.
in writing. - recently we have seen terrible news about the persecution of a christian minority in egypt, which has resulted in the death of 30 christians and about 350 injured, as well as the destruction of a church in cairo. if, on the one hand, the european union, as a bulwark of values and an uncompromising defender of rights, supported the revolt of the populations of some arab countries, which culminated in the so-called arab spring, on the other hand, it cannot remain indifferent to the attacks on the freedom and security of its citizens. i therefore strongly support this joint motion for a resolution condemning the actions of an extremist islamic group against the 10% christian minority in egypt. the fate of minorities is always problematic. so we cannot tolerate any kind of discrimination. egypt must rebuild the church and stop these encroachments on religious freedom. the eu, as a community of values, must reaffirm to egypt the fundamental importance of respect for minorities and the need to punish criminals by example, because the arab spring must be synonymous with freedom and not a utopia.
in writing. - this resolution, like the events it deals with, is part of a line which is intended to divert attention from the essence of what is happening in egypt: a democratic process of national liberation, after decades of dictatorship, from a regime with which the eu has been conniving and complacent. in various ways, including by inciting religious differences to safeguard the military junta and its discretionary power, it is thus sought to fuel confusion against the powerful democratic demand of the popular masses and against their struggle for the independence of the judiciary and the condemnation of those responsible for the dictatorship, for the effective transition of power from the military to civilians and for profound political transformations, directed towards the raising of the living conditions of the workers and the majority of the people. as regards syria, attempts to intervene from outside, encouraged and supported by arms, continue, threatening the territorial integrity and sovereignty of that country, through a process very similar to that which led to nato's military intervention in libya. and it seeks to hide the essence of the popular demonstrations demanding the improvement of their living conditions, while refusing any external interference in the country.
in writing. - this resolution seeks to divert attention from what is happening in egypt, by fuelling confusion and seeking to incite religious differences in order to safeguard the military junta against the powerful democratic demands of the masses of the people, who are fighting for the independence of the judiciary, for the condemnation of those responsible for the dictatorship, for the swift and effective transition of power from the military to civilians and for policies aimed at improving the living conditions of the majority of the people. in relation to syria, the emphasis is on exacerbating the real situation in order to try to hide the external interference, encouraged and supported by arms, which threatens the territorial integrity and sovereignty of syria, through a process in every respect similar to that which led to the nato military intervention in libya. it also seeks to hide the essence of the popular demonstrations, which demand the improvement of their living conditions, while rejecting any outside interference in the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the situation in egypt and syria, in particular the situation of the christian communities, because i agree with the recommendations which the european parliament addresses to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.
in writing. - it is not without regret that we are now hearing reports of the persecution of christian communities in egypt and syria. from egypt, reports come mainly of persecution of members of the coptic church: in addition to a substantial number of believers having already left the state, there are reports of summary trials by military courts, which offer no guarantees of a defence or an independent trial. in addition, at least 25 egyptian citizens were killed in a peaceful religious demonstration held in northern cairo and more than 300 were injured. in syria, for its part, religious persecution has been framed in the context of the deep repression that has been felt and that has led, for several months, to a policy of real massacre of the regime's opponents. in this context, parliament deplores without exception the persecution based on religion and expresses its solidarity with all those who have been victims of such acts. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − over the past few months, syria and egypt have been going through a critical period of democratic transition, facing great difficulties and considerable challenges in this process of social stability and economic development. i would like to express my full solidarity with the people of egypt and syria, and hope that the authorities will be able to identify the perpetrators and those responsible for the attacks on christian communities. i also believe it is crucial that the authorities respect the fundamental rights of citizens, in particular the freedom of association, the freedom of peaceful assembly, the freedom of expression, religion, conscience and thought of all citizens. i agree with this resolution of the european parliament on the situation in egypt and syria, which considers it essential that the european union should take a clear and unequivocal position in strongly condemning the killing of demonstrators. i also believe that the eu must take action in the event of serious human rights violations and must also be ready to take further aid measures to support both peoples in a peaceful democratic transition.
in writing. - i support this draft report, considering that the law must be unequivocally reaffirmed in all member states of the european union and that, despite ukraine's apparent stability in the face of court cases involving high-ranking state officials and even its prime minister, it is necessary to give a clear signal of the transparency and effectiveness of the legal bodies of this country. we must ensure that democratic stability is guaranteed in order to be able to consider ukraine as a full member state of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that all judicial proceedings against senior officials of the current and former ukrainian government should be conducted in accordance with european standards of fairness, impartiality, transparency and independence. i believe that strengthening the rule of law and carrying out internal reform, including a credible fight against corruption, are essential for deepening eu-ukraine relations, but also for consolidating democracy in ukraine.
in writing. - this joint motion for a resolution on the current situation in ukraine was tabled following a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure; the violation of human rights in this country has been condemned by this parliament in previous resolutions. despite ukraine's request to join the european union, there have been a number of reports of serious violations of the charter of fundamental rights, particularly in respect of minorities, lack of freedom and persecution of opponents of the current regime, as in the case of ms yulia tymoshenko, who was convicted in a political trial that was not transparent and which drew international criticism. although i believe that the eu-ukraine partnership and association agreement should be signed in december, i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu's rapprochement with ukraine should help the ukrainian government to realise that it must respect democratic life and stop persecuting those who oppose it.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. it also disrespects principles it claims to uphold, such as the separation of powers, impartiality, transparency and the independence of the judiciary from the political power, when it seeks to influence the process that ukrainian judicial institutions are developing involving yulia tymoshenko. they go even further, using blackmail and threats, saying that if the conviction of yulia tymoshenko is not reviewed, the conclusion and ratification of the association agreement will be compromised, which will further distance the country from the realization of its european perspective. the majority of the ep has difficulty concealing the hypocrisy of its policy, the basic principle of which is to interfere in ukraine's internal affairs in order to create better conditions for the defence of the interests of its economic and financial groups. for all these reasons, we voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the current situation in ukraine because i share the concerns about political persecution expressed in it.
in writing. - the recent events in ukraine have raised the concern of international analysts. according to the information currently available, former prime minister yulia tymoshenko has been sentenced to seven years in prison, three years of prohibition on political activity, a fine of usd 200 million and the confiscation of all her assets, on the basis of an old soviet law which provided for criminal prosecution for political decisions. whatever the basis of the advance ruling, its profound departure from the fundamental principles of the rule of law and its acute criminal disproportion are reprehensible. it is feared that the decision was based on the proximity of the next elections. in this context, i renew my support for the joint resolution tabled, which i voted in favour of, calling on ukraine to reform its justice system in the short term, bringing it into line with the fundamental principles that should govern a democratic state governed by the rule of law.
in writing. − the eu's foreign policy is based on the founding principles of the european community itself, one of which is the rule of law and the impartiality, independence and fairness of legal proceedings. the seven-year sentence of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko is seen as an act of revenge, with the intention of banning her from running in the upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections in 2015. these acts have been carried out against several members of the ukrainian opposition, with the aim of eliminating any and all types of opponents. i believe that the deepening of eu-ukraine relations requires the competent ukrainian authorities to re-establish the rule of law and the transparency, fairness and impartiality of legal proceedings against former government members. only in this way will it be possible to conclude the association agreement and to pursue ukraine's integration into the european union. i am against any use of national institutions for partisan and political purposes which are contrary to fundamental rights and guarantees.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, considering that antimicrobial resistance is an important and largely unresolved issue which has become a public health threat in europe and the rest of the world, resulting in longer and more complicated treatments, a decrease in quality of life, a higher risk of death (annually 25 000 patients in the eu die from infections caused by resistant micro-organisms), increased healthcare costs and productivity losses of at least eur 1.5 billion per year. it is no accident that the world health organization has considered the theme of this year's world health day. i note with concern that antimicrobial resistance is a growing threat to public health in europe and the rest of the world, despite the measures taken at european and international level, and therefore call for an intensification of the fight against antimicrobial resistance in medicines for human use.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance refers to the inability of certain antimicrobial agents (antibiotics, for example) to act effectively on organisms (bacteria, viruses and other micro-organisms) that were previously sensitive to them, because they have developed resistance. antimicrobial resistance has become a public health threat in europe (and the rest of the world), as it results in longer and more complicated treatments and increases the risk of failure to respond, with potentially fatal consequences (e.g. 25 000 people die every year in the eu from infections caused by resistant micro-organisms). this means that there is an urgent need for global action to ensure that antimicrobials are prescribed and used more prudently, that they are used only when they are really needed, and that the development and research of antimicrobials, together with the pharmaceutical industry, is encouraged as a way of treating patients infected with resistant micro-organisms.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on antimicrobial resistance, which threatens public health in europe and the rest of the world, because i believe that the commission should present without delay a legislative framework to combat antimicrobial resistance. it is necessary to use antimicrobials prudently, both in humans and animals, ensuring that they are used only when they are actually needed, and to investigate and develop new alternatives and antimicrobials.
in writing. - following questions for oral answer under rule 115 (5), a motion for a european parliament resolution on the problem of the threat to public health posed by antimicrobial resistance was tabled. most european citizens are unaware of the harmful consequences for public health of the indiscriminate use of antibiotics, both in humans and in animals. there are a number of scientific studies which warn of the public health risk of certain bacterial strains in food and in food-producing animals. the european institutions have drawn the attention of all those responsible to the prudent use of antimicrobial agents in human medicine, as they can destroy or inhibit the growth of bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms. given the interest and relevance of this subject antimicrobial resistance is a largely unresolved issue i welcome the presentation of this motion for a resolution which i hope will contribute to improving the quality of life of european citizens.
in writing. - the widespread use of antibiotics and the increase in resistance to antimicrobial agents are certainly a cause for concern. this is an important public health problem which this resolution warns of, and we have supported it, in that it calls for greater caution and vigilance and goes further with the need for more research to develop new alternatives and new antimicrobial agents. but more than developing new agents, it is important to understand and tackle the causes of the development of these resistances, which are also addressed in the resolution, and to address the widespread lack of information on this subject. we believe that it is important to inform and raise awareness among the public about the effects of antibiotics and their use, as stated in the resolution, but that effective investment is also needed in prevention and primary health care, which is now under severe attack and in an accelerated process of devaluation, with policies that have led to the divestment and the discharge of responsibility from the state by public health services. a fundamental change in agricultural and livestock production methods is also needed, by combating intensive production with a high incorporation of agrochemicals, including antimicrobials, which is responsible for the increase in the problems associated with antibiotic resistance. we regret the adoption of the amendments proposed by the ppe which weakened the resolution in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the threat to public health posed by antimicrobial resistance, recognising that this is a serious public health problem that needs to be addressed. however, i regret that the position taken by the rapporteur in paragraph 28 is excessive in its wording (too comprehensive and taxing), failing to make any distinction between the antibiotics currently used in the sector, failing to present alternatives to phasing out, and calling for the outright elimination of prophylactic antibiotics in livestock without regard to their negative impacts on european livestock farming. i voted against this paragraph.
in writing. − antimicrobial agents are designed to kill or prevent the growth of bacteria, viruses or other micro-organisms. in the process of the evolution of science, they have been translated into one of the great achievements for the reduction of pathologies and infections that, until the emergence of these techniques, had deadly effects. today, however, the problem of antimicrobial resistance arises, arising, among other reasons, from the overuse or misuse of medicines, both by humans and by animals. in contrast, the pharmaceutical industry, in opposition to a continuing activity of developing antibiotics, has developed a small number of antimicrobials. a holistic approach is therefore required, involving not only patient awareness policies but also the development of new techniques to combat the risks to public health and the adoption of an active surveillance policy by supervisory activities. for these reasons, which are set out in the motion for a resolution, i voted in favour.
in writing. − microbial resistance is a growing threat to public health in europe and the rest of the world, despite measures taken at european and international level. the fight against resistance to microbial agents in medicinal products for human use must therefore be intensified. microbial agents can destroy or inhibit the growth of bacteria, viruses and other micro-organisms and therefore play a considerable role in improving public health by helping to reduce the number of deaths caused by previously incurable or fatal diseases and infections. however, their use has led to the development of resistance, known as antimicrobial resistance, in certain micro-organisms previously sensitive to these microbial agents. the european commission should submit a proposal for a legislative framework in this area, promoting responsible use initiatives and supporting their dissemination and information. only by prudent use of microbial agents, increased control and surveillance of antimicrobial resistance and by encouraging research and development of alternatives can an approach to tackling this problem be promoted.
mr president, i would like to reiterate a complaint and protest which i have made on other occasions. once again, this afternoon, the resolutions are not available in all the languages, in particular they are not available in portuguese. i think this is yet another demonstration of how much more needs to be done in this house to fully respect the principle of multilingualism. this is all the more serious when we know that just yesterday a proposal was approved which provides for a budget reduction of more than eur 20 million for interpretation and translation expenditure in 2012. i think that is unacceptable, there is still a lot to be done to ensure that the principle of multilingualism is respected effectively, and i think that this amendment adopted yesterday is putting it even more in doubt and, as i had the opportunity to say yesterday, is threatening the jobs of workers who are essential to the functioning of this parliament.
author. - mr president, in the first half of 2011, marked by the events of the arab spring, arms sales to libya, saudi arabia and bahrain totalled eur 35 million. they don't tell me that there's an embargo now and that these weapons didn't kill protesters. just before the united nations announced an embargo on arms transfers to libya last february, britain was still happily selling £72,350 worth of arms to gaddafi. the european union's initial offers to refugees from libya were €4 million. what the eu member states made from the profits of arms sales to gaddafi in 2009 was 300 million euros. it turns out that the arab peoples have had enormous courage in fighting against their dictators, their tyrants. it seems to me that europe has not had the same courage in fighting its own past of collusion and complicity with some of these tyrants, who think that now, by merely verbal support for the arab spring, they can clear their past. the european union is currently involved in some of the repressions against the opposition in bahrain. i am not talking about the member states of our companies. european companies have been pressured by the barents authorities to dismiss their employees for engaging in opposition activities. there are european companies involved in the distortion of satellite broadcasts, i am talking about eutelnet in particular, because of opposition content that was being broadcast in bahrain. the european union has responsibilities and european companies have responsibilities, for example, when they benefit from european funds. we must say enough about the complicity of european companies in the repression in bahrain.
mr president, the situation in bahrain is one of fierce repression against a people who are fighting for democracy and freedom and to whom we wish to express our full solidarity. several examples of this repression have been brought to the table. the repression was supported by foreign troops from saudi arabia and the united arab emirates, who invaded the country, a country which, it should be remembered, is home to the largest us base in the persian gulf, the fifth fleet, considered a strategic platform for the entire region. it is time to put an end to this instrumental conception of human rights, which ties them to and subordinates them to the geopolitical and geostrategic interests of the imperialist powers. it is time to put an end to this profound hypocrisy of raising the question of human rights in order to interfere and carry out aggressions against sovereign countries and peoples, to plunder their resources and to remain silent or to speak softly in the face of repression by friendly regimes, in a shocking demonstration of complacency, even complicity, towards these regimes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the country is not further complicated by the fact that the syrian government has not yet taken action to deal with the situation. one of the most important things when we have these human rights debates, whether the house is full or empty, is to know that they do have an effect. we often despair because we are talking about causes that are outside the territory of the european union, but we often find people who have been released after this debate and/or who felt less alone because they knew that their cause was being defended in a forum outside their countries. and many of us, coming from countries that have also had dictatorships, know that the most important thing is not to abandon the resistance, not to abandon the people in opposition. in this case, we're talking about a syrian psychoanalyst who works with torture victims, who was leaving syria to return to france, where she lives, and where her daughter is, who was about to give birth in those days, and who was arrested on spurious charges by the syrian authorities. even so, from prison, he writes saying that there "i discover now a hidden part of the society in which i live and of which i am responsible". i think it's admirable these words of rafah nached, the way she, even in prison, feels co-responsible for her society. the same one where there are now 4,000 dead in the course of the arab spring in syria, 7,000 missing, 22,000 detained, 6,000 syrian refugees in lebanon, 10,000 syrian refugees in turkey, 7,000 syrian refugees in jordan. i think it is very important that the european union establishes, demands a commission of inquiry to find out what is happening to human rights activists in syria. there has been a lot of talk here about double standards, and i think we should be as honest about the cases in syria as we are about the cases in bahrain and libya. that is what we are trying to do here in this parliament. that is the line we must follow and that is what we must ask of mrs ashton and the commission represented here by mrs kroes.
madam president, rail transport is a strategic sector for economic, energy and environmental reasons. it ensures the mobility and transport of people and goods, stimulates the economy and promotes territorial cohesion. a sector which, by its nature and characteristics, requires investments and long-term development strategies, pursuing interests and public service objectives incompatible with the mercantilist vision of this railway package. this package subjugates everything to business, business with private profits supported by public investment. the fragmentation proposed here is tailored to the multinationals in the sector, which are taking over rail transport and colonizing the markets for associated services in several countries. the example of the german multinational db, which controls more than 60% of freight at european level, is illustrative. the liberalization of the sector means that people are losing out on services of lower quality and higher prices, workers are being lost as a result of the intensification of the exploitation of the labour force on a european scale, and safety is being dangerously compromised, subjected to free competition. these have been the results of the liberalization that has been carried out so far, and these, but even more serious, will be the results of its further deepening.
madam president, this debate has shown that this issue is more complex than it might at first appear, which is aggravated by the growing unemployment in some member states, putting pressure on people, particularly young people, to look for work where it exists. the recognition of professional qualifications must not jeopardise the rights of consumers and service users, which is particularly worrying in areas such as health, education and others. but above all, it is necessary to encourage and support the creation of jobs with rights in all member states, so that people can actually work where they want and not be forced to leave their country just because they have no work there. and this is the central question.
mr president, the firm and combative struggle of the portuguese workers and people is an important response to the aggressive programme of the european union, the imf and their henchmen in portugal. and that answer must be heard here in this parliament, because it is in this parliament that many of the measures contained in this programme of aggression are endorsed. the general strike on the 24th will be a high point in this struggle, a point that follows several demonstrations, protests and sectoral stoppages in recent days. this saturday, more than 180,000 public servants took to the streets of lisbon. in education, health, transport, public security and defence, in the rural world, workers, small and mediumsized businesses and the population are joining a huge current against widespread impoverishment, against theft from workers and pensioners, against the squandering of the country's resources. the general strike of the 24th will not be the end of this struggle, but rather its entry into a higher level, because it is also a struggle in defence of democracy, a democracy which is seriously amputated and disfigured when the people are deprived of the fundamental instruments for deciding their fate, for determining their collective future, as is the case with the criminal programme of privatisations contained in the pact of aggression of this troika.
mr president, first of all i would also like to thank former member eva-britt svensson and our colleague kyriacos triantaphyllides for the work they have done on a new strategy on consumer policy. it is important that particular attention be paid to the problems of consumers, especially the most vulnerable sections of the population, in the context of the serious economic and social crisis in several member states. in addition to information campaigns, monitoring and product testing, it is essential to ensure that all populations - workers, pensioners, children, young people, women and migrants - have sufficient income to access all essential goods and services, including food, but also health, energy, transport and housing services that enable them to live a life in dignity.
mr president, the general and continuing weakening of bee colonies is a worrying problem for which it has been difficult to find an effective and consistent solution. if we consider that this decline affects not only domestic bees but also the wild populations of various pollinator species, we can easily see the seriousness of its consequences for agriculture and the environment. in general terms, this problem cannot be dissociated from the current agricultural models, intensive agriculture, with the prevalence of monoculture, with a high and unsustainable incorporation of agrochemicals, pesticides, with the spread of genetically modified organisms, without due observance of the precautionary principle. without prejudice to measures which can and should be taken in the short term, such as banning certain types of products and providing adequate scientific and technical support to farmers, what is needed are substantive measures. measures that involve a change in existing production models and the policies that support them. the cap reform would therefore be an opportune moment to begin this necessary fundamental change.
mr president, while congratulating the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the good work they have done, i would like to stress one important point which, despite my efforts, remains missing. the need to guard against the harmful effects of using subspecies outside their natural range and to prevent the continuation of this practice, which began some 50 years ago and which has placed bees in conditions to which they were not adapted. in these cases, selection is based on certain characteristics, such as honey production, to the detriment of other aspects essential to their survival, such as defensive behaviour and swarming. there has also been the introduction of parasites and exotic diseases which sometimes led to the extinction of local subspecies. it is therefore important to prevent this practice, which is harmful to all, from continuing through proper training of beekeepers and appropriate regulation.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank ms westphal for this report. this report represents a precious contribution for the european commission. as the report acknowledges, there are great differences in the demographic trends in europe which some regions are going to experience. therefore, a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach will not work. cohesion policy already supports demographic change through actions such as active labour market policies, investment in entrepreneurship, modernisation of social and health sector infrastructures, kindergartens and housing, as well as support for the economic and social integration of immigrants and minorities. regional responses to demographic change should address the challenges through integrated approaches. the cohesion policy legislative package for the period 2014-2020, adopted by the commission on 6 october, will offer a framework to fund a wide variety of investments to tackle demographic change. in this regard, the commission has adopted a number of common provisions for the three funds included in the package: the european regional development fund, the european social fund, and the cohesion fund. the provisions related to the local development approach, integrated territorial investment and sustainable urban development, will allow further flexibility and additional possibilities for funding to address demographic change at regional and local level. active and healthy aging is critical for a sustainable european society. in order to face the demographic trend to a further aging population, the eu has to reduce the differences in terms of health and must contribute to improving access to health services. the commission is now drawing up a common strategic framework that will cover the three funds mentioned, plus the european agricultural fund for rural development and the european fisheries fund. the framework will translate the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy into key actions that will be supported by the different funds. it will address the multi-dimensional aspects of demographic change and will determine how the different funds can better collaborate in this field.
the increase in average life expectancy is a breakthrough made possible by scientific and technical development and the achievements of civilization in the last century. it is true that progress has presented us with a whole new set of possibilities and challenges. in the european union this progress has been used as a pretext to impose retrogressions, that is, to call into question the rights and achievements of workers and peoples, such as social security systems. and many of the challenges have gone unanswered. the challenges are certainly in the area of cohesion policies, regional development, combating desertification, strengthening and diversifying public services, to name just a few. this report addresses the important issue of the use of the structural funds, namely the erdf and the european social fund, to address some of these challenges, particularly in the countries and regions most affected by ageing and depopulation. the increase in the absorption rate of these funds is crucial, and all the more so as we know that many of these countries and regions are faced with unacceptable so-called austerity programmes, which squeeze investment levels to the point of poverty, preventing the full use of these funds by those who need them most and at the time when they are needed most.
mr president, commissioner, this report by mr peter simon is a very balanced report. it uses economic services of general interest, within the framework of the common values of the union, as promoters of rights and of economic, social and territorial cohesion. there is certainly a legislative framework, but the framework is still very much in legal uncertainty and the principle of subsidiarity must be upheld. the report's many positive points are the clarification of the distinction between economic and non-economic activities, the reference to local and regional sgeis which do not affect competition in the internal market, the reference to project bonds, the de minimis rules for situations where sgeis operate on a limited local scale, and the status of sgei providers, which is sufficiently broad to include associations, foundations, community and voluntary organisations, ngos and social enterprises. finally, it is assumed that the definition of quality and efficiency of the sgeis should be linked to the principle of subsidiarity.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, neoliberal policies and so-called austerity programmes are aggravating poverty and social exclusion, with over 116 million people at risk of poverty and over 42 million people living in conditions of severe material deprivation and extreme poverty, which is a real scandal in this european union where the profits of economic and financial groups are high. we therefore condemn the so-called austerity policies and programmes and insist on the need for a fundamental change in community policies in the economic, financial and social fields which are at the root of present poverty, namely the stability pact, the euro plus pact, financial deregulation, liberalisation and privatisation of essential public services. as we have argued in our amendments, we call for the rejection of such pacts and insist on their replacement by a pact for social progress and development which gives priority to employment with rights, social inclusion, poverty eradication, the promotion of fundamental human rights. it is important that the commission and the council put an end to the pressure on member states to privatise and liberalise public property, public goods and services and social protection systems. there can be no effective european strategy to combat poverty without a decisive commitment to supporting production, creating jobs with rights, promoting universal public services and a fair sharing of income and wealth, including through minimum incomes, pensions and wages that guarantee everyone incomes equivalent to at least 60% of the median income of each member state. we therefore call for the proposals we have tabled in this plenary session to be adopted.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate rapporteur daerden on the quality and timeliness of this report and also commissioner andor on the initiatives announced. poverty is indeed a very serious problem which requires effective and rapid action to halt the increase in the phenomenon which currently affects more than 80 million europeans. the serious crisis we are going through has aggravated this situation and made the times we are living in dramatic, as commissioner andor said. the number of unemployed people is constantly increasing, and we all know that unemployment is a passport to poverty and social exclusion. this requires resources, will and a lot of commitment from the european commission and the member states. if this does not happen, the objective of lifting 20 million european citizens out of poverty during this decade will not be achieved. i therefore warmly welcome the initiative of the platform against poverty, which is a very important instrument for ensuring social justice. but no one doubts that the best antidote to poverty and social exclusion is the creation of jobs and the promotion of economic growth.
member of the commission. − i believe the question highlights that there is also a need to use eu funds in the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland and there is a need for adequate resources, especially in areas with specific problems like northern ireland. concerning concrete allocations, this will be decided at a later stage in cooperation and in dialogue with the national authorities, but i believe the principle which we laid down in the regulation is to respond to the concrete needs on the ground. on that basis, i believe these programmes will have to continue and the esf capacity is there to focus in particular on the labour market and social inclusion.
mr president, a point of order. i may have misheard you earlier when you announced the distribution of speaking time between the groups, but i did not hear you give any speaking time to the gue, the left group. i was here at the beginning of the debate - as were other colleagues - and we asked to speak at the very beginning. i'd like to know if it was a mistake or if you can't find more than 50 minutes in the next hour or a minute to allocate to our group.
in writing. - i approve the position at first reading taking into account the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i welcome this recasting of the coordination of the guarantees required of companies within the meaning of article 54 tfeu. the coordination of these guarantees is necessary to protect the interests of the members and third parties in connection with the formation of the public limited liability company, its maintenance and changes to its capital. the aim of this recast is to make these guarantees equivalent throughout the community.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur and the opinion of the three legal services of the european institutions that the proposal in question does not contain any substantive changes and is confined to the mere codification of existing acts without any substantive changes.
in writing. - the present report, drawn up by mr klaus-heiner lehne, concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council directive coordinating the safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies in accordance with the second paragraph of article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the european union. given that the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission has issued an opinion stating that the proposal does not contain any substantive amendments, merely codifying the unchanged provisions of the previous acts, thus limiting itself to the pure and simple codification of existing acts, i am voting in favour of this report on this proposal for a directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which provides legal certainty for the formation of limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, so that these guarantees become equivalent throughout the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive coordinating the safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the community. this text is the result of an interinstitutional agreement examined by the legal services consultative group which concluded that the proposal does not contain any substantive changes and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous act, the proposal effectively limits itself to a pure and simple codification of the existing text without altering the substance of the acts to which it relates. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. - as the directive aims to codify diplomas which were scattered (with advantages in terms of accessibility and legibility of legislation), without any changes being made in substance, and as the amendments which were introduced in each case have already been accepted by the committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report is technical in nature: it concerns the recasting of the company law directive and aims to remove from its text the second legal basis, which was found to be illegal by the court of justice of the european union. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i approve this report, whose unanimous recommendation on the protocol to the athens convention is a step forward, recalling that since 1974 many cases have been insufficiently dealt with by the convention.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the carriage of passengers and luggage by sea, referring to the athens convention of 1974, because i agree with the strengthening of the responsibilities of maritime carriers. this reinforcement is particularly felt in cases of damage or negligence, and it is also now mandatory that carriers are properly covered by insurance and that users are able to claim compensation directly from the insurers.
in writing. − whatever the means of transport used, passengers have the right to a quality and safe service, which is why i welcome accession to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, which aims to ensure the safety of passenger ships, the rights of passengers and to close certain loopholes in the rules on the liability of carriers at international level.
in writing. - this proposal for a recommendation, drawn up by brian simpson, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the protocol adopted on 1 november 2002 amending the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, with the exception of articles 10 and 11. the question at issue was as important as liability in the event of the carrier's fault or negligence, the obligation to take out insurance and the right to claim compensation. the accession negotiations, which started in 2003, were suspended and resumed only in 2007, after the commission had presented a supplementary regulation on the liability of passenger carriers in 2005. in 2009, after four years of negotiations, the european parliament and the council reached agreement on regulation (ec) no 392/2009, which provides that the eu has exclusive competence with regard to accession to the athens protocol in respect of matters covered by the regulation, with all other aspects of the protocol falling within the competence of the member states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this recommendation and welcome the overcoming of a problem which has existed for almost ten years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which allows the european union to accede to the protocol of 2002 to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, 1974, with the exception of articles 10 and 11.
in writing. - this report is based on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, 1974. the convention focuses on the safety of passenger ships and the rights of passengers. however, it was considered that the convention did not sufficiently regulate a number of important issues, such as the nature and extent of the liability of carriers and minimum insurance requirements. part of these issues were addressed through a protocol negotiated under the auspices of the international maritime organisation (imo) and adopted on 1 november 2002, amending the athens convention. however, the accession of the european union and its member states was not consensual and after 4 years of negotiations, a supplementary regulation on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of accidents with a view to the conclusion of the protocol and aiming to incorporate into community law most of the remaining substantive provisions was adopted in 2009 and is expected to apply until 2013. these steps have made accession to the convention possible. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, 1974, was amended by the protocol of 1 november 2002, which sought to introduce liability in the event of the carrier's fault or negligence, rules on the obligation to take out insurance and the right to claim compensation from the insurer. these amendments were introduced into the community legislation by regulation (ec) no 39/2009, adopted on 23 april 2009. i have voted in favour of the agreement, without putting any obstacles in its way.
in writing. the 1974 athens convention is concerned with the safety of passenger ships and the rights of passengers. the protocol in question was signed in 2002 and included liability issues in the event of the carrier's fault or negligence, the obligation to take out insurance and the right to claim compensation directly from the insurer. the eu's proposal for accession to the 2002 protocol was requested in 2010, although certain aspects of the protocol are the responsibility of the member states. the institutions therefore called on the member states to ratify the protocol, as did the union, in order to ensure a coherent legal framework within the union.
in writing. - i approve this technical report as it deals with important elements in relation to judicial and civil cooperation, as it will hopefully bring important benefits in relation to passenger rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because i consider that the measures contained in it serve the interests of european citizens by contributing to the strengthening of the responsibilities of maritime transport companies and the defence of passenger rights.
in writing. − whatever the means of transport used, passengers have the right to a quality and safe service, which is why i welcome accession to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, which aims to ensure the safety of passenger ships, the rights of passengers and to close certain loopholes in the rules on the liability of carriers at international level.
in writing. - this proposal for a recommendation, drawn up by brian simpson, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the protocol adopted on 1 november 2002 amending the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, with the exception of articles 10 and 11. the accession negotiations, which started in 2003, were suspended and resumed only in 2007, after the commission had presented a supplementary regulation on the liability of passenger carriers in 2005. in 2009, after four years of negotiations, the european parliament and the council reached agreement on regulation (ec) no 392/2009, which provides that the eu has exclusive competence with regard to accession to the athens protocol in respect of matters covered by the regulation, with all other aspects of the protocol falling within the competence of the member states. the draft decision defines the declarations to be made by the eu when depositing its instrument of accession. in these terms, i welcome the adoption of this recommendation and welcome the overcoming of a problem that has existed for almost ten years.
in writing. - this report refers this matter to the committee on transport and tourism, considering it competent to draw up the european parliament's legislative resolution on the draft decision on these articles dealing with the athens convention, while giving its support to accession to the protocol. the 2002 protocol to the 1974 athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea was intended to address certain loopholes in the regulation on the liability of carriers at international level. most of the articles of the athens protocol concern amendments to the athens convention on the liability of carriers, the obligation to take out insurance, the limit of liability for death and personal injury or for loss of or damage to luggage and vehicles and accounting and conversion matters. these points are related to transport and it is therefore right that the committee on transport and tourism should be the committee responsible for drawing up the legislative resolution of the european parliament on the draft decision on these articles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which allows the european union to accede to the protocol of 2002 to the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, 1974, with the exception of articles 10 and 11.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which relates to report a7-0356/2011. the committee on legal affairs is called upon to intervene because the legal basis of the act is in question. the committee on legal affairs unanimously proposes that parliament give its consent to accession to the protocol. all aspects of the protocol which are not covered by regulation (ec) no 392/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2009 shall be the responsibility of the member states. this is the case, for example, with the provisions relating to the possibility of setting higher limits of liability than those laid down in the protocol. the agreement is therefore a mixed agreement and must be ratified by the member states.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 329/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 23 april 2009 on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea in the event of accidents, incorporating the amendments made to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea by the protocol of 1 november 2003. the system introduced is partly based on the system established by council regulation (ec) no 44/2011 of 22 december 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. as the committee on legal affairs has not raised any reservations about the conclusion of the agreement, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the 2002 protocol is intended to regulate matters of carrier liability at international level which were expressed in the athens convention. regulation (ec) no 392/2009 has allowed these amendments to be incorporated into the eu legal order. i therefore vote in favour, because i consider it important that european legislation is consistent with the laws of the member states, and at the same time because the committees of the european parliament will have a say in future amendments to the agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report because it brings existing bilateral agreements into line with european union law.
in writing. − air services operated between the european union and jordan are based on bilateral agreements concluded between the member states and jordan. the european commission has recently negotiated a much more ambitious global agreement, replacing the bilateral set of agreements by the creation of a euro-mediterranean airspace between the european union and jordan, establishing uniform conditions for air carriers from the 27 member states. the agreement in question has the following objectives: gradual opening of the market in terms of capacity and access to routes on a reciprocal basis; non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators; alignment of jordanian aviation legislation with eu legislation in areas such as safety and air traffic management. the conclusion of the euro-mediterranean agreement with jordan is expected to increase passenger numbers by 54 000 and generate up to eur 30 million in benefits for consumers in the first year of market opening. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − the conclusion of the eu-jordan aviation agreement plays an important role in the development of the european neighbourhood policy. i therefore voted in favour of this agreement, as it will allow for the gradual opening of the constituent parties' markets in terms of capacity and access to routes. the jordanian authorities have also provided the commission with a comprehensive overview of the implementation of the relevant legislation in jordan.
in writing. − the conclusion of a euro-mediterranean aviation agreement with jordan is a longstanding priority for the eu and an important element of the european neighbourhood policy. the new agreement negotiated by the commission also has obvious advantages in that it replaces provisions in the current bilateral agreements with a horizontal agreement which restores a sound legal basis for eu-jordan relations by establishing uniform conditions for air carriers from the 27 member states. it is noted that until now the provision of these services was conditional on the existence or absence of bilateral agreements between each member state and jordan. the figures estimated by the european commission for the first year of this new common aviation area are very positive, as the benefits for consumers are around eur 30 million, and the number of passengers is expected to increase by 54 000.
in writing. - as chair of the european parliament's delegation for relations with the countries of the mediterranean, it was with great satisfaction that i voted in favour of this recommendation, particularly because this agreement represents a long-standing priority for the eu, which the commission estimates will increase the number of passengers travelling between the two destinations by a further 54 000, with a benefit of eur 30 million for passengers in the year of market opening. this agreement is part of the wider objective of creating a common euro-mediterranean aviation area and is perfectly integrated into the objectives of the future european neighbourhood policy, for which i am co-rapporteur in the european parliament. i am personally and politically very pleased to vote in favour of this recommendation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the parties shall cooperate closely in the implementation of democratic reforms and the modernisation of the jordanian economy. in addition, the eu is jordan's main trading partner after saudi arabia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because it supports the re-establishment of direct flights between eu and jordanian airspace, which i consider to be an important step towards bringing these regions closer together. i believe that this recommendation is balanced in promoting the gradual opening up of aviation markets, accompanied by the harmonization of safety and air traffic rules, and based on respect for the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. − the eu-jordan agreement on certain aspects of air services (the agreement) replaces similar bilateral agreements and harmonises common rules for air services across the union. the agreement seeks the gradual opening of the market in terms of capacity and route access on a reciprocal basis; non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators, based on the principles of the eu treaties; alignment of jordanian aviation legislation with eu legislation in areas such as safety and air traffic management, in order to constitute a euro-mediterranean airspace between the european union and jordan.
in writing. the european union is committed to the implementation of the eu-jordan euro-mediterranean aviation agreement. air services between eu countries and jordan are currently governed by bilateral agreements, which is no longer possible as of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. in 2008, an agreement with jordan brought bilateral agreements into line with eu law. the european commission has recently negotiated a broader comprehensive agreement aimed at creating a euro-mediterranean area between the eu and jordan, thus standardising the conditions of operation for all air carriers in the 27 member states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal, the agreement on which will lead to the gradual opening up of the air market in terms of capacity and access to routes on a reciprocal basis, in line with the european neighbourhood policy. in addition, the alignment of jordanian legislation in this area with eu legislation, in particular with regard to safety and air traffic management, will be verified. non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators are also guaranteed in accordance with the eu treaties.
in writing. the eu has also agreed to extend the scope of the agreement to include the following areas: the conclusion of a horizontal air services agreement with jordan in 2008 has made it possible to bring these bilateral agreements into line with european union law. the agreement sets uniform conditions for air carriers in the 27 member states, which benefit all, regardless of their nationality. in this context, european union air carriers will be able to provide their services between any point in the european union and jordan, whereas until now the provision of such services was conditional, for example, on the existence of bilateral agreements between each member state and jordan. the agreement has the following objectives: gradual opening of the market in terms of capacity and access to routes on a reciprocal basis; non-discrimination and a level playing field for economic operators, based on the principles of the eu treaties; alignment of jordanian aviation legislation with eu legislation in areas such as safety and air traffic management. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. the eu-jordan air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two countries. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as on the work of all the bodies concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's public authorities, including the public procurement authorities. the commission notes that the agreement between the eu and jordan on the air carrier aoc and the air carrier aoc is signed on behalf of the eu and jordan. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. - this report concerns air services between the european union and jordan. the commission notes that the airport operator has not provided any evidence that the airport operator has been operating in the absence of the agreement. however, the european commission has recently negotiated a much more ambitious global agreement which replaces all bilateral agreements by the creation of a euro-mediterranean airspace between the european union and jordan. the agreement establishes uniform conditions for air carriers from the 27 member states, from which all benefit, irrespective of their nationality. in this context, european union air carriers will be able to provide their services between any point in the european union and jordan, whereas until now the provision of such services was conditional, for example, on the existence of bilateral agreements between each member state and jordan. as this is an agreement with positive overall objectives, such as the gradual opening up of the market in terms of capacity and access to routes on a reciprocal basis and non-discrimination and fair conditions of competition for economic operators, based on the principles of the eu treaties, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this agreement, which aims to replace the bilateral agreements concluded between the various member states and jordan, is an essential element of the european neighbourhood policy, as it calls for closer relations between the eu and jordan. it is important to note that the european union is currently jordan's second most important trading partner and is therefore committed to the process of affirming and consolidating democracy in this area. the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union and its member states and the hashemite kingdom of jordan provides a regulatory framework to allow airlines to increase the supply of air links between the two areas, operating with great freedom. the main aims are to open up markets by introducing fairer rules and non-discrimination for economic operators and to harmonize legislation on safety and air traffic management. it is estimated that in the first year of application of the agreement, passenger numbers will increase by 54,000, with an overall economic benefit of eur 30 million. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. − the conclusion of this comprehensive agreement opening up the euro-mediterranean air market is an important step towards deepening relations with neighbouring countries and towards the european neighbourhood policy. the number of passengers is expected to be 54,000 in the first year, generating some eur 30 million. from this document air carriers from the 27 member states have uniform and non-discriminatory conditions and can operate flights from anywhere in the eu. the gradual opening of the market has also led to the alignment of jordanian legislation with european legislation in the areas of safety and traffic management. once again i am voting in favour, but i reiterate the need for the ep to be consulted and informed during the negotiations as an institution that is part of the community acquis.
in writing. - i approve this report because it brings existing bilateral agreements into line with european union law.
in writing. − this agreement aims to regulate relations in the field of aviation between the european union, its 27 member states and georgia. the aim is to create a common aviation space between the european union and georgia by extending to georgia the rules of the single market in air transport in force in the european union, creating uniform conditions of competition between all eu and georgian carriers. the application of the rules on aviation safety and air traffic management to georgia will lead to a reciprocal opening of markets, and in the future all air carriers from the union and georgia will be able to offer their services from all points in the territory of the union and in all points in the territory of georgia. the gradual establishment of the common aviation space between the union and georgia will increase the number of passengers by 25 000 in the first year and generate benefits for consumers of the order of eur 17 million. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the eu-georgia agreement on civil aviation will finally allow georgia to apply the rules of the single european union air transport market and create a level playing field between all eu and georgian air carriers. the new agreement, which i support, will bring benefits to both sides, allowing in the future all air carriers from the union and georgia to offer their services from all points in the territory of the union and all points in the territory of georgia. it is estimated that in the first year alone the benefits to consumers of this new common aviation area will be around eur 17 million. this reciprocal opening of markets also allows the participation of new operators, the use of hitherto under-explored airports and the consolidation of union air carriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that common aviation agreements are a very important area of eu action, not only because they define common rules with third countries but also because they provide for a deepening of the single market. i would point out, for example, that this agreement will make it possible to extend the rules of the single market to georgia in the field of transport, thus creating a common legislative framework which will bring greater transparency and a fairer level of competition between european and georgian carriers. i would also stress the opportunity of this agreement in the wider context of improving relations with our neighbours and at a time when we have adopted the revision of the european union's neighbourhood policy, for which i am co-rapporteur in the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because it promotes a strengthening of our bilateral relations by supporting the reciprocal and widespread opening to all economic operators, without discrimination, of both georgian and eu aviation markets.
in writing. − the eu-georgia agreement on a common european aviation area (the agreement) aims to replace similar bilateral agreements and to harmonise common rules for air services across the union. the agreement will make it possible to extend the rules of the single market in air transport to georgia and create a level playing field between all air carriers in the european union and georgia. the application of the existing rules on aviation safety and air traffic management to georgia will lead to the reciprocal opening of markets and the non-discrimination of the various economic operators on the basis of their nationality.
in writing. − this recommendation, drafted by thomas ulmer, concerns an international agreement which aims to regulate aviation relations between the european union, its member states and georgia. the agreement is intended to replace existing bilateral agreements and is part of the eu's neighbourhood policy, which aims to create a common aviation area between the eu and its neighbours. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has substantially changed the competences of several european institutions, in particular the european parliament, which in the new context is called upon to express its opinion on matters which were previously outside its competence, such as the present case of an international agreement between the eu and georgia on air services. considering that the reciprocal opening of these markets will boost their growth - facilitating the emergence of new operators and raising standards of aviation safety and air traffic management by applying to georgia the rules of the single eu air transport market, benefiting both eu and georgian citizens, i endorse this recommendation.
in writing. − the eu/georgia air agreement is very important for the future of relations between the two countries. in this regard, and following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary that the european parliament be fully informed and consulted on the work carried out by the joint committee, as well as on the work of all the bodies concerned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission notes that the agreement between the airlines and the air carriers is not binding on the air carriers concerned. this market opening could contribute to improving passenger services.
in writing. − this international agreement aims to regulate aviation relations between the european union, its 27 member states and georgia. the objective of that agreement is to establish a common aviation area between the european union and georgia. the existing bilateral agreements, which have so far regulated air services between the two parties, should be replaced by this new agreement. this step is part of the european union's neighbourhood policy, which also aims at creating a common aviation area between the european union and its neighbouring countries. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. the agreement aims to create a common aviation area between the eu and georgia and thus replace the bilateral agreements which have so far regulated air services between the two parties. the commission notes that the agreement on the air carrier's operating licence was signed on 28 june 2014 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2014. the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union and its member states and georgia thus provides a regulatory framework to allow air carriers to increase the supply of air connections between the two areas, operating with great freedom. it is estimated that in the first year of application of the agreement, passenger numbers will increase by 25 000, with an overall economic benefit of eur 17 million. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. the eu and georgia have signed an agreement on the regulation of air transport. georgia, as a member of the european neighbourhood policy, and the eu are celebrating the gradual opening of the market through the incorporation of european legislation into the national laws of the country concerned. as in the case of the other air agreements, the benefits will be felt in both economies as more airlines will have the opportunity to open new routes in different member states. the number of passengers is therefore estimated to be 25 000 in the first year and the economic benefits to be in the order of eur 17 million. although i agree with the conclusion of these air agreements, i would reiterate once again that the european parliament should be consulted during the negotiations of the various international agreements and not merely give a non-binding opinion.
in writing. - i approve this report. as i come from an outermost region, i am well aware of the permanent constraints of this type of region and it is important to study the possibility of extending these provisions to the outermost regions of the azores and madeira.
in writing. - the kingdom of spain has requested the temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the canary islands, with a view to strengthening the competitiveness of local economic operators and thus ensuring more stable employment in these regions. i therefore voted in favour of this report because the effects of this suspension will be limited to the regions concerned and will help to help smes and local farmers in economic development and job creation in this region. it is also important to consider that, in the context of the current economic crisis, the adoption of specific measures to stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment in the medium term is also part of the recovery plan for the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the canary islands, because i believe that, in the current context of the economic crisis, this will help to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to create jobs in this outermost region.
in writing. the kingdom of spain has requested, on behalf of the autonomous community of the canary islands, the temporary suspension of the common customs tariff for certain industrial products in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local businesses and stabilise employment in this outermost region. in order to ensure that imported goods do not distort competition and are used by local companies, they will be subject to periodic controls confirming that they will not be sold in other regions of the union before the end of a two-year period. like the canary islands, other outermost regions in europe are struggling with problems arising from their isolation from the main supply lines and means, which has been exacerbated by the current economic and financial crisis, justifying positive discrimination in their favour.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for special measures to support the eu's outermost regions to help them overcome economic disadvantages arising from their geographical situation. the canary islands are among the regions considered to be the outermost regions. the autonomous community of the canary islands, through the government of the kingdom of spain, has requested the extension of the current temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the canary islands in order to maintain employment for the population and ensure the competitiveness of the local economic fabric. in the light of the global financial crisis, this measure can help smes and farmers in the region to keep their economy stable and create jobs, thus helping to end the recession in almost all eu member states. in view of the socioeconomic relevance of this measure of temporary suspension of the autonomous duties of the common customs tariff, i am voting in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague, mrs danuta maria hübner, and i hope that the autonomous community of the canary islands will achieve rapid economic recovery.
in writing. the spanish government has made a request on behalf of the authorities of the autonomous community of the canary islands for an extension of the current system of tariff suspensions applicable to imports of certain industrial products. as in the case of portugal's outermost regions, the azores and madeira, these measures are designed to ensure and strengthen productivity and employment in regions which, because of their specific conditions, face a number of constraints and permanent difficulties: economic and social inequalities, geographical location, insularity and natural handicaps. the non-payment of customs duties on certain imported products is a measure which can help to overcome some of these constraints and help to promote regional development. this measure could benefit regional smes, farmers and local producers. for these reasons, we voted in favour.
in writing. - it is customary for the spanish government to make a request on behalf of the authorities of the autonomous community of the canary islands for an extension of the current system of tariff suspensions applicable to imports of certain industrial products. as in the case of portugal's outermost regions, the azores and madeira, these measures are designed to ensure and strengthen productivity and employment in regions which, because of their specific conditions, face a number of constraints and permanent difficulties: economic and social inequalities, geographical location, insularity and natural handicaps. the non-payment of customs duties on certain imported products is a measure that can help to overcome some of these constraints and help to promote regional development, in particular regional small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers and local producers. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - by approving the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the canary islands, we have helped local smes and farmers to invest and create jobs in this outermost region of the union. in the context of the current economic crisis, the need to take specific measures to stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment in the medium term can be considered to be properly integrated into the recovery plan for the european economy and the measures needed to respond to the specific problems of the outermost regions of the union.
in writing. the kingdom of spain, on behalf of the autonomous community of the canary islands, has requested the temporary suspension of the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the canary islands in order to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and thus ensure more stable employment in these outermost regions of the union. to ensure that imported products, whether raw materials, parts, components or capital goods, do not distort competition, these products will be subject to end-use controls ensuring their use by local enterprises on the islands. the capital goods will have to be used by local companies on the islands for a minimum of two years before they can be freely sold to other companies located elsewhere in the union territory. in addition, the raw materials, parts and components will have to be used for processing and industrial maintenance in the canary islands in order to benefit from the duty suspension. the effects of the proposed suspension will be limited to the regions concerned and will help to help smes and local farmers to invest and create jobs in this outermost region of the union in the current context of the economic crisis. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the outermost regions often have specific problems which, in certain cases, require differential treatment. in the present case, it is justified to suspend the application of the autonomous common customs tariff duties for the benefit of the canary islands in respect of raw materials, parts, components or capital goods used by local undertakings, subject, however, to their use for industrial purposes for a period of at least two years. i voted in favour of this measure because it is justified by the specific context of this region.
in writing. − the outermost regions of the european union face permanent constraints related to their remoteness, insularity, difficult terrain and climate, which result in a structural limitation to their economic and social situation, in accordance with article 349 tfeu. this specific status allows the treaty provisions to be adapted and, consequently, measures to be adopted at european level which take particular account of the needs of these regions. it is in this context that the report voted on today in the european parliament is aimed at temporarily suspending the autonomous common customs tariff duties on imports of a number of industrial products into the canary islands. such measures have also been adopted in other octs, such as madeira and the azores, and are intended to help strengthen the competitiveness of economic operators in these regions.
in writing. − i approve this legislative package as it continues to give special emphasis to research and development under the 7th euratom framework programme 2007-2011, extending its period of validity until the end of the multiannual financial plan which ends in 2013.
in writing. − i welcome the proposals aimed at continuing and extending the agreement in the financial perspectives of the euratom framework programme for nuclear research for the years 2012 and 2013. the euratom framework programme concerns research activities in the field of nuclear energy and radiation protection. the legislative acts of this programme correspond to draft decisions on its implementation through direct and indirect actions and on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions.
in writing. - i share the concerns of those who have serious doubts about nuclear energy: about its cost, about the fate of its radioactive waste and about the safety of its facilities (whether due to accidents of their own, to terrorist attacks or other criminal acts or to natural disasters such as those that occurred in fukushima, japan). i have an ambivalent view of mr březina's reports. i recognize that some of the lines of research may even be positive in that they focus on strengthening safety and protecting the population, but others are clearly intended to continue the efforts of an industry which is in several european states in the process of phasing out. that is why i decided to abstain in the final vote on both the reports on the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (direct and indirect actions) and on the report on the proposal on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under this programme and for the dissemination of research results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training (indirect actions) because it is part of a legislative package which aims to continue support for research and development activities under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011) by aligning it with the current eu multiannual financial framework until 2013.
in writing. - coordination in the field of atomic energy is one of the origins of the current process of european integration. from the very beginning of this process, it has been necessary to make a joint effort to seek to research and develop technology which would enable europe to keep pace with the development and use of this energy. nuclear energy is currently part of the energy mix of some member states of the european union, and the provision of adequate means for the ecsc to pursue its objectives could enable it to contribute to ensuring safer and cleaner nuclear energy for citizens, while maintaining its use. this resolution is one of the measures designed to achieve this, where appropriate by implementing the framework programme through indirect actions.
in writing. - this report, by jan březina, deals with the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013), to be implemented through indirect actions by the joint research centre. despite the disasters at chernobyl and, more recently, at fukushima, the nuclear question remains very topical, not only because of the need to accompany the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations and ensure the safety of waste management, but also, and fundamentally, because of a scientific and technological modernization issue, both in terms of energy production and medicine. over the past few years the european union has been making a decisive contribution to the advancement of research in this area by supporting various programmes and in particular the iter project, which is more than 50% funded by the eu. despite the economic and financial crisis, i believe that the eu must remain at the forefront of research in this area, so as not to lose its leadership and to call into question all the know-how acquired over the years. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - independently of the debate on the nuclear option for energy supply, which must be pursued, taking into account the limits, potential and dangers of this option, we consider that training and research in this area, which has many other applications besides the above, are necessary. the training of technicians and researchers specialised in this field and the existence of a body of research, monitoring and control infrastructures is a necessity for any country, whether or not nuclear is an energy option. the same applies to portugal, where the present government has plans to close down the nuclear technological institute, which have been rightly contested by technicians and researchers. as regards the content of the report, we are very concerned about some of its assumptions, particularly those which end up promoting nuclear energy. the way in which it does so is not in keeping with the debate which needs to be held in view of the well-known risks and consequences for people and the environment, as well as the recent accidents of alarming proportions.
in writing. − in times of crisis we need to ensure that the implementation of the framework programmes of the various eu bodies is well implemented. in the specific case of the european atomic energy community it is important that the funds are well used to safeguard potential safety risks as well as in research towards the discovery of cleaner atomic energy with less environmental risks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented through indirect actions for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013). this proposal concerns research in the fields of fusion, fission and radiation protection. its main intention is to ensure the continuation of eu-funded research activities in these areas for more than two years, taking into account the activities successfully carried out in the period 2007-2011. to this end, the proposal describes in detail the scope of r & d activities.
in writing. - following the evaluation carried out by the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the proposal for a specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities to be carried out by means of indirect actions, as i believe that it meets the objectives of the community's energy policy.
in writing. − the euratom framework programme (euratom fp7) 2007-2011 consists of two specific programmes (one for indirect actions and the other for direct actions) and ends at the end of this year. the european commission has put forward a proposal dealing with indirect actions such as research into fusion and nuclear fission energy and radiation protection, with the intention of extending the programme specifically designed for this purpose for a further two years. i agree with the commission's present initiative because i believe it is important for the european union to take measures to continue the activities being developed and to start implementing the european strategic plan for energy technologies approved by the council in march 2008. finally, i believe that the new fp for 2012-13 should be simpler and less bureaucratic, with increased transparency and legal certainty in line with the european parliament's suggestions for the implementation of the research fps.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting the achievements of the s&d group. it is always worth stressing the importance of a europe which defends the welfare state in order to protect the weakest and which should not, by amending labour laws, jeopardise the rights of workers, particularly in insolvency proceedings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on insolvency proceedings in the context of eu company law, as it aims to develop a useful discussion on the harmonisation of insolvency proceedings in the different eu countries. this harmonization, carried out at different levels, would be positive for europe, as it would make an important contribution to the strengthening of the single market and european integration.
in writing. - the recommendation follows a study carried out by this parliament in an attempt to identify specific areas of harmonisation between the various national insolvency laws. there is certainly a clear interest in exploiting the conclusions presented there, as well as in the proposals subsequently drawn up by the rapporteur. however, i would like to stress that although such harmonization will resolve possible conflicts in international insolvency law, it is not sufficient on its own. it therefore lacks a stronger community approach and coordination and an agreement between member states to enable more effective mechanisms for coordination of procedures.
in writing. - the current financial and economic crisis is forcing society at large to reflect on all the administrative and legal procedures involved in economic activity. one of the problems affecting modern societies is the functioning of the business fabric, which, when it grows, generates wealth and creates employment, and, when it falls, throws millions of workers into unemployment with the social consequences that we all know. one of the causes of unemployment is the failure of companies, often due to insolvency. at present, each member state has its own specific legislation on this matter, and therefore, in the spirit of the functioning of the single market, it is essential to harmonise insolvency proceedings at european union level. the recommendations in this report by klaus-heiner lehne, which will serve as guidelines for the commission, are based on a four-pronged approach: harmonisation (where possible), revision of the insolvency regulations (where possible improvement), improvement of trustee cooperation and cooperation in general, and the creation of an eu-wide insolvency register. because i believe that this report will help to improve the functioning of eu societies, i voted in favour.
in writing. the rapporteur makes some positive proposals. among these, we highlight the attention paid to workers, as evidenced by relevant statements such as the following: although labour law is the responsibility of the member states, it may be affected by insolvency law; in a context of increasing globalisation and, admittedly, economic crisis the question of insolvency must be examined from the perspective of labour law, as workers' rights should not be undermined in the event of insolvency by divergent definitions of employment and employed person in the member states; - considers it necessary to give greater priority to workers' claims over those of other creditors; the report is not without contradictions, however, notably the attempt to harmonize the conditions under which insolvency proceedings may be opened. moreover, the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises are not always safeguarded. while there are some positive points in opening up the processes, it will always be the most powerful who will benefit the most.
in writing. - there are several contradictions in this report, such as the attempt to harmonize the conditions under which insolvency proceedings may be opened. the rapporteur points out that there are positive aspects to the opening of the procedures, but the interests of smes will not always be safeguarded. in general, it's always the most powerful who will benefit from the process. there are positive aspects to this report, however. the attention paid to the workers is outstanding. this is the case, for example, with the following statements: it stresses that although labour law is the responsibility of the member states, it can be affected by insolvency law and that, in a context of increasing globalisation and, admittedly, of economic crisis , the issue of insolvency must be examined from the perspective of labour law, as workers' rights should not be undermined in the event of insolvency by divergences in the member states' definitions of employment and employed person. it considers it necessary to give greater priority to workers' claims over those of other creditors.
in writing. - the legislation on insolvency proceedings needs to be improved. in a climate of crisis, the number of insolvencies is increasing and it is necessary to speed up the procedures. on the other hand, there were gaps in the old legislation which need to be filled, in particular with regard to the insolvency of groups of companies. the insolvency regulation applies only to individual companies and there is no legislation at eu level applicable to the insolvency of groups of companies, despite the fact that groups are a very common form of business model in economic life. this omission has important negative consequences. it is necessary to be aware of the wide variety of different group structures and relationships between companies belonging to the same group and, consequently, also of the fact that the same solution cannot be applied to all types of groups, at least if we take into account the current situation of insolvency laws in force in the union. ideally, the insolvency of groups of companies should be administered by a single court which would apply its own insolvency law. this solution facilitates coordination and information transfer, saves costs, maximises the value of assets and facilitates recovery.
in writing. − on 23 march 2011, the committee on legal affairs held a seminar on the subject 'harmonisation of insolvency proceedings at eu level'. the aim was to identify areas in national insolvency legislation which could be harmonised. in preparation for the hearing, the committee on legal affairs commissioned a study on 'harmonisation of insolvency law at eu level'. the recommendations made in this report take into account the ideas put forward by the experts in that study and during the hearing and specified in detail in the documentation. this report thus contains recommendations to the commission on insolvency proceedings in the context of eu company law and sets out the actions to be taken in future legislative proceedings. as this is a process with constructive measures in an area where harmonization could bring more value, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the insolvency regime remains one of the areas of law in which the laws of the member states differ most. this is, however, an extremely important matter in which closer approximation of the laws of the various states is warranted: the way in which the insolvency proceedings are structured ultimately determines the satisfaction of the company's claims; on the other hand, it is also the last chance for a company to recover economically. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − when the insolvency regulation was adopted at european level in 2000, some important issues were not properly integrated and now need to be given special attention. the disparity between national legal systems on insolvency proceedings calls for harmonisation to allow for better restructuring of the various european companies, which should be reflected in the forthcoming legislative proposals. among the various items covered are harmonisation of the conditions for opening insolvency proceedings, a review of certain definitions in the regulation and its scope, improved promotion of cooperation between winding-up bodies and administrative bodies and the creation of a european-wide case register.
in writing. - i welcome this report, drawing attention to the fact that demographic change is a factor that must be taken into account in policy-making, with particular emphasis on the outermost regions and the most fragile regions supported by the convergence objective.
in writing. - demographic change is a reality in the european union. europe's population is ageing, with the oldest population and the slowest population growth rate in the world. demographic change is therefore considered the most important trend of the 21st century and will radically change the political, social and economic situation in europe. the report, which i supported, identifies the following priorities: better adaptation of the structural funds to the challenges of demographic change; avoiding the exodus of people and the social exclusion of the elderly; the need to combat unemployment among women and youth; and taking advantage of the knowledge and experience of the elderly. in order to achieve an adequate response to demographic change in europe, it is important that these changes can be measured in appropriate statistical terms and that there is better coordination between the responsible bodies at all levels and the exchange of best practice.
in writing. − europe's populations are ageing, life expectancy is increasing and demographic change is increasingly becoming a reality with social and economic impacts, both on social security and on migratory pressure. it will be important to address the challenges associated with the very different developments at regional level in order to counteract the displaced flow of young people to the cities at the expense of rural areas. otherwise, there will be an alarming 10% population decline in some 20 regions of the eu. demographic change has undoubtedly been affecting the elderly, children and families. therefore, countermeasures aimed at restructuring urban planning, particularly with regard to higher quality public transport, the granting of erdf funds with the intention of granting loans at lower interest rates so that beneficiaries can adapt houses according to the needs of the elderly, to an extended coverage of medical care and to a better use of the knowledge and experience of the elderly in counselling are indispensable to prevent population exodus and an exclusion of the elderly.
in writing. - the demographic structure of europe is changing radically. it's a fact. alongside an ageing population and lower birth rates worldwide, demographic changes in several regions of the european union bring new challenges which must be objectively considered in future eu cohesion policy. in some regions there is depopulation, in others considerable population inflows. i therefore consider it absolutely essential that an appropriate infrastructure policy be designed and implemented, one which is adapted to the needs of each area. the structural and cohesion funds play a central role here. it is therefore necessary to develop specific policies for rural areas suffering from depopulation on the one hand and specific policies for urban areas receiving significant population inflows on the other. the report gives good examples of what should be done. i voted in favour of it, and i believe that it provides relevant, objective, clear and easily understandable input to the discussion which has recently begun on the future of eu regional policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that gender equality policies can make an important contribution to tackling demographic change. in addition to measures to increase female employability, special attention should be given to incentives for employers to promote work-life balance.
in writing. - demographic change is evident in the european union, which is increasingly ageing and lacking the capacity to replace itself. this is a matter of concern to experts and policy-makers who cannot ignore the harmful consequences of the loss of vitality of their societies and who must instead look for ways of alleviating the problems arising from this and of adapting the social state to the new reality. while population ageing is not an evil in itself, but rather a reflection of how average life expectancy has increased, the low birth rate should merit our more vigorous attention in supporting the reconciliation of personal and family life and the adoption of family-friendly public policies.
in writing. - this report, by kerstin westphal, deals with a subject of major importance for the future of europe. we cannot, in fact, be indifferent to the demographic changes that have occurred, essentially, in the last three decades. the sharp fall in the birth rate, the increase in life expectancy, the depopulation of rural areas and migratory flows are some of the phenomena on which the european union must reflect and which it must address in the context of a future cohesion policy. since demographic change is 'the most important trend of the 21st century, which will radically change the political, social, societal and economic situation in europe', it is essential that the structural funds be directed towards mitigating the negative effects of this change: investments in rural areas to prevent exodus, urban infrastructure for reception, social support for the elderly, children and families, an increase in the female employment rate and a new policy for the integration of skilled immigrant workers. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's view that demographic change is not a problem but an opportunity to deal with the ageing of the european population, and i welcome the adoption of this report which takes a proactive view of demographic developments.
in writing. - demographic changes in europe are the expression, on the one hand, of civilizational advances such as the increase in average life expectancy, but also of worrying aspects such as the low birth rate, particularly worrying in some countries, such as portugal. the rapporteur, in view of these changes, intends to examine and explore the consequences of demographic change from the point of view of opportunities. as we said during the debate, we are concerned that this debate is often used, more or less covertly, to pave the way for the imposition of measures which call into question the fundamental rights and achievements of workers and peoples, such as social security systems; to impose the raising of the retirement age, the reduction of the value of pensions, the overcrowding and degradation of social infrastructures, the loss of rights to health care. all this has happened with the implementation of the so-called austerity measures. ensuring the existence and universality of quality public services, diversifying and strengthening them in the light of the new needs arising from demographic change, safeguarding their public character and changing the policies that have led to low birth rates are some of the conditions for demographic change not to represent a retreat from civilisation or to jeopardise economic and social cohesion.
in writing. - scientific and technical developments and the achievements of civilization in the last century have made possible a breakthrough which presents us with a whole new set of possibilities and challenges. but in the institutions of the european union this progress has been used as a pretext for imposing setbacks, that is, for calling into question the rights and achievements of workers and peoples, such as public and universal social security systems. many of the challenges have not been adequately addressed, whether in the context of cohesion policies, regional development, the fight against desertification or the strengthening and diversification of public services. this report addresses the important question of the use of the structural funds, namely the erdf and the european social fund, to address some of these challenges, particularly in the countries and regions most affected by ageing and depopulation. the increase in the rate of absorption of these community funds is all the more important as we know that many of these countries and regions are faced with unacceptable so-called austerity programmes, which squeeze investment levels to the point of poverty, preventing the full use of these funds by those who need them most and at the time when they are most needed.
in writing. − demographic change is a reality in the eu and how to manage this situation is one of the key tasks of the future. the european populations are ageing. europe has the oldest population and the lowest population growth rate in the world. in most member states, birth rates are below the replacement level of 2.1 children per woman (and will continue to decline in some cases) while life expectancy is increasing. demographic change will create new challenges in many regions of the eu. in this context, demographic trends will have to be analysed predominantly at the level of regions where very different trends are visible.
in writing. - i share the rapporteur's general conviction that difficulties are also opportunities for new forms of development. however, this is not always the case and demographic issues can be dramatic in a future without opportunities. i am referring specifically to the process of desertification of some of the azores islands. in particular, on the islands of graciosa, flores and s. jorge, the population is decreasing and with it economic, social, cultural and recreational activity and all hope of personal and collective development. in relation to these borderline situations, specific and effective policies and adequate funding are urgently needed, but are slow to emerge.
in writing. - demographic change is now a reality in the european union, with a gradual ageing of the population on the one hand and an increasing exodus from less developed areas to urban centres on the other. the european union has the lowest birth rate in the world, which not only increases the need to attract labour from non-eu countries, but also puts a very heavy burden on social security systems. the commission's proposals for the reform of the structural funds are therefore not in line with the commission's proposals. i voted in favour of this guideline.
in writing. − last october 2011, the european commission presented the legislative package for the future of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, introducing new measures which i consider to be of the utmost importance to reduce bureaucracy and increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy. the fifth report on economic, social and territorial cohesion from dg regio states that demographic change is increasingly high on the political agenda, demonstrating the importance of the issue for the future of cohesion policy. i agree with this report because it sets out measures that can avoid the negative consequences of demographic change, lists various solutions for the elderly, children and families and reinforces the role of cities as poles that aim to stimulate greater social integration. finally, i believe that the structural funds in the period 2014-2020 should contribute to meeting the challenges arising from demographic developments in the european union, in particular with regard to the decline in the young population and the increase in average life expectancy.
in writing. - i approve this report, stating that the socialists have fought and are fighting hard to put an end to speculation with an impact on the interest rates of sovereign debts in europe. the end of short selling and certain aspects of default swaps as policies in the field of european economic governance contribute to a more transparent global financial system.
in writing. − since the financial crisis, several member states have taken measures to suspend or prohibit short selling. however, the powers of national regulators to restrict or prohibit such sales still vary from one member state to another. this new regulation will create a harmonised framework for coordinated action at european level. this regulation prohibits or restricts such transactions and makes it more difficult to speculate on a country's sovereign debt. the new legislation aims to increase transparency and enable regulators to more easily detect risks in the debt market. the regulation will also make it impossible to buy credit default swaps (cds) for the sole purpose of speculating on a country's default, due to the negative impacts on the stability of sovereign debt markets that these instruments can cause. the european securities and markets authority (esma) will be at the heart of the monitoring and supervisory activities. the regulation also introduces enhanced information and notification requirements for national and european regulators to enable them to monitor markets and more easily detect risk accumulation. i therefore support this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. much of this speculation has been fuelled by the sale and resale of credit default swaps (cds), the price of which serves as an indicator of the level of risk of the respective sovereign debt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. these measures are designed to prevent anyone across the eu who does not hold sovereign debt from any eu country from buying these risk management products (rms) to speculate against their debt. finally, these proposals will also make it possible to achieve greater transparency in the short selling market (sale of securities which one does not own), with a view to better regulating an area which is also a source of much speculation.
in writing. - this report represents the culmination of an intensive process of negotiations between the two co-legislators and results, in my view, in a balanced position as regards the limit on sovereign debt speculation and the future of short selling. i would point out that the european union is thus the first region in the world to restrict the activity of short selling and default swaps and i welcome the option of limiting its activity as opposed to simply excluding it. i would also like to highlight the enhanced role given to the european securities and markets authority, which will allow for greater monitoring and supervision of the rules listed here and which accompanies the position of this parliament with regard to the european supervisory authorities. finally, i welcome the work carried out by the whole team of rapporteurs, which will bring about greater harmonization at european level of this type of activity.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis - as most experts say - has revealed the economic, social and political costs of a self-regulated financial system. the attention of experts is now focused on the search for a methodology that can identify the behaviour of the financial system that can provoke new crises. this report, by pascal canfin, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on short selling and certain aspects of default swaps, which were banned in some member states at the height of the financial crisis. bad debt can't be classified as good and no one can sell what they don't have. for the safety and smooth functioning of financial systems within the eu, it is essential that legislation harmonises the potential risks arising from short selling and default swaps. i welcome the adoption of this report which will bring more powers to european regulators, more transparency to financial markets and more security to all investors, who will now see reduced risks of losing their investments.
in writing. − as the report shows, at the height of the financial crisis in september 2008, the competent authorities in several eu member states and other countries, such as the us and japan, took emergency measures to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or all securities, with concerns that, in a period of considerable financial instability, short selling could exacerbate the vicious cycle of falling share prices, particularly of shares of financial institutions, in a way that could ultimately threaten their viability and create systemic risks. but within the european union, member states have taken differentiated measures in view of the absence of common regulatory measures. only now, two years later, are some measures being taken, although very insufficient, to harmonize the rules on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps (cds), requiring notification in duly typified cases, which may help to reduce some speculation, especially with sovereign debt. unfortunately, they will not come into force until 2012 and even after that date, the exceptions provided for still allow this practice in some cases.
in writing. − as noted in this report, at the height of the financial crisis in september 2008, the competent authorities in several eu member states and other countries, such as the us and japan, took emergency measures to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or all securities, with concerns that, in a period of considerable financial instability, short selling could exacerbate the vicious cycle of falling share prices, particularly of shares of financial institutions, in a way that could ultimately threaten their viability and create systemic risks. but within the european union, member states have taken differentiated measures on the basis of the absence of common regulatory measures. only now, two years later, are some measures being taken, although very insufficient, to harmonize the rules on short selling and certain aspects of default swaps, requiring notification in duly typified cases, which may help to reduce some speculation, especially with sovereign debt. unfortunately, they will not come into force until 2012. i also regret that it is said that, although in certain situations they may have negative effects, in normal market conditions short selling plays an important role in ensuring the proper functioning of financial markets.
in writing. - the economic crisis has shown us that short selling of securities, as well as other more or less sophisticated forms of financial engineering, carry enormous risks and have led to market instability and the emergence of serious systemic risks, without any evidence of any benefits for the functioning of the economy. as regards short selling, i believe that we should have been even more ambitious in regulating transparency obligations and asset retention guarantees as a way of combating financial speculation, so i abstained.
in writing. − the financial products that financial institutions have created over the years have not been properly regulated, which has contributed to the severe financial crisis that has broken out in the past. the new rules on short selling and credit default swaps (cds) are also aimed at creating greater transparency for both regulators and markets and at enabling regulators to detect risks in the sovereign debt market more easily. regulators will also have powers to restrict or prohibit short selling in certain circumstances. we hope that these new measures will fill the gaps of the past.
in writing. − at the height of the real estate-related financial crisis in september 2008, the competent authorities in several eu member states and the us took emergency measures to restrict or prohibit short selling of some or all securities. the commission's action was prompted by concerns that, in a period of considerable financial instability, short selling could exacerbate the downward spiral of share prices, in particular of shares of financial institutions, in a way that could ultimately threaten their viability and create systemic risks. member states have taken different measures as the union lacks a specific legislative framework for the issues associated with short selling. this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on short selling and certain aspects of default risk swaps fills this lack of a specific legislative framework for a measure 27 on short selling. in this context, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − following the financial crisis, the need arose to provide the legal systems of the various states with regulatory instruments to prevent the risk of new systemic crises. in this context, it is justified to adopt a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on short selling and certain aspects of default swaps, which would provide ways of protecting consumers and investors and, at macroeconomic level, reduce the risks of systemic crises. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission presented a proposal in september 2010 on short selling and certain aspects of default swaps, aimed at addressing the regulatory fragmentation between member states. i agree with this regulation given the urgency to standardise the response of member states to short selling risk by applying this regulation to financial instruments admitted to trading on a trading venue in the union, even when traded outside a trading venue, derivative products and debt instruments issued by a member state or by the union. i would also like to mention that the european union urgently needs to find sustained and lasting answers to the sovereign debt crisis by developing cross-cutting solutions for the euro area.
in writing. - i approve this report, as this political commitment proposes a common legal framework for the systematic collection, compilation and transmission of permanent crops in the different member states, information which is important to make available.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on european statistics on permanent crops, recognising the need to adapt the common regulatory framework for european statistics on permanent crops to the current needs of users and the market, and to simplify the administrative burden of producing data, in particular by exempting small farms.
in writing. statistics are an indispensable method and means of evaluation in virtually all areas of policy action and are extremely useful both in predicting certain events and in providing goods or services. these are also important for agricultural activity, since they enable us to know more precisely both the production and the production potential of certain areas and the whole framework of the respective market. updating, simplifying and optimising these statistics increases the possibilities of their use and takes some of the burden off them, allowing them to be carried out without undue constraints for the respondents.
in writing. statistics is an essential technique for the substantiation of most scientific work. if we have the best information on a given subject, we can make a more correct and informed decision. bureaucracy is a necessary evil which must be reduced to a minimum without affecting transparency or jeopardizing the achievement of the objectives set. in this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on permanent crops, mariya nedelcheva points out the advantages of this proposal, particularly in terms of reducing the administrative burden on respondents and simplifying procedures. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, because i believe that the procedures for obtaining statistics are usually too bureaucratic and uniform for large and small farms, which often makes it difficult for the latter to operate.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to update the regulatory framework for european statistics on permanent crops, adapting them to the current needs of users and the market. the report improves on the european commission's initial proposal in some respects, notably by removing the possibility for the commission to amend the list of permanent crops (by delegated acts) without prior approval by parliament. the proposal for simplification is important, by reducing the administrative burden on respondents, which should initially involve smaller samples. the committee also expressed concern that the amendments would not impose an additional burden on the national competent authorities. it is not clear to us, however, that the changes now proposed to statistics will produce the necessary answers to the specific difficulties of small farmers and smallholders created by the current system of data collection. this is of course more relevant for countries such as portugal, where despite the strong concentration of ownership over the last few years (favoured by the cap), small and medium-sized ownership is still very prevalent, accounting for about four fifths of all farms. in view of the doubts and concerns raised, we supported the improvements proposed by parliament but did not support the final legislative proposal.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to update the regulatory framework for european statistics on permanent crops, adapting them to the current needs of users and the market. the report improves on the european commission's position in some respects, for example by removing the possibility for the commission to amend the list of permanent crops (by delegated acts) without parliament's approval. the proposal for simplification is also important, by reducing the administrative burden on respondents by introducing thresholds at farm and territorial level, which should initially involve smaller samples. it is not clear, however, that these statistics will produce the necessary answers to the concerns of small and mediumsized farmers, since they will be the technical support for decision-making in the fields of production and the european market. in countries with weaker economies and greater dependence on agri-food, such as portugal, the course of the last decades has been the decline of the agricultural sector, especially family farming, with the successive neoliberal reforms of the common agricultural policy. for all these reasons we supported the improvements proposed by the majority of the european parliament, but we did not support the final legislative proposal.
in writing. − the aim of this regulation is to update the existing regulatory framework for european statistics on permanent crops, adapting it to the current needs of users and the market. the aim of simplification should be emphasised and the efforts made by the commission to reduce the administrative burden on respondents should be commended. the aim is to use statistical data on permanent crops as a reliable basis for appropriate decision-making in the fields of production and the european market. it is however possible and desirable that the administrative burden can be reduced by modifying the data accuracy requirements to exclude all small holdings (less than 0,2 hectares)
in writing. − the aim of this report is to update the existing regulatory framework for european statistics on permanent crops, adapting it to the current needs of users and the market. the aim of simplification should be emphasised and the efforts made by the commission to reduce the administrative burden on respondents should be commended. the aim is to use statistical data on permanent crops as a reliable basis for appropriate decision-making in the fields of production and the european market. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to strike a better balance between the needs of users and the administrative burden of producing data. the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the administrative burden by amending the data accuracy requirements, excluding all small holdings (less than 0.2 hectares) from the scope and deleting the nuts 3 breakdown of some data on vineyards for purposes other than table grape production should be considered. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the effectiveness of the application of community law depends to a large extent on its ability to adapt to the challenges that arise. to this end, it is necessary to have recourse periodically to procedures for reviewing the texts of the rules in order to determine in concrete terms which points can be improved. it is in this context that the commission's recent proposal to reduce the administrative burden on respondents for the purposes of european statistics on permanent crops is to be found. it is an initiative which deserves applause, since it contributes to the protection of citizens' confidence and to the simplicity of community legislation. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − in may 2010, the european commission drew up a proposal for a regulation on european statistics on permanent crops, in which it advocates the need to update, simplify and optimise the existing regulatory framework for european statistics on permanent crops by replacing the two existing legal acts with a single one. i agree with the amendments to this regulation, as it is necessary to encourage greater cooperation between the authorities involved in the production and publication of european statistics, to consult a wide range of decision-makers, including experts with extensive knowledge of the subject, and to take into account best practices adopted at international level. i also consider it important that this regulation establishes a common framework for the systematic production of european statistics on permanent crops, facilitating greater integration and comparison at european level.
in writing. - i support the amendments suggested by parliament and note the importance of one of the general objectives of the original document which stresses the need to increase the safety, performance, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness of nuclear fission and the uses of radiation in industry and medicine. i would also stress the importance of international cooperation in many areas, particularly in the area of advanced nuclear systems which are being studied in the framework of the international generation iv forum.
in writing. − i welcome the proposals for the continuation and extension of the agreement under the euratom framework programme for nuclear research for the years 2012 and 2013. the legislative acts of this programme correspond to draft implementing decisions through direct and indirect actions and stipulate the rules for the participation of companies, research centres and universities in direct actions.
in writing. - i share the concerns of those who have serious doubts about nuclear energy: about its cost, about the fate of its radioactive waste and about the safety of its facilities (whether due to accidents of their own, to terrorist attacks or other criminal acts or to natural disasters such as those that occurred in fukushima, japan). i therefore have an ambivalent view of mr březina's reports. i recognize that some of the lines of research may even be positive in that they focus on strengthening safety and protecting the population, but others are clearly intended to continue the efforts of an industry which is in several european states in the process of phasing out. that is why i decided to abstain in the final vote on both the reports on the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (direct and indirect actions) and on the report on the proposal on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under this programme and for the dissemination of research results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training (direct actions) because it is part of a legislative package which aims to continue support for research and development activities under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011) by aligning it with the current eu multiannual financial framework until 2013.
in writing. − the main objective of the joint research centre is to provide scientific and technical support for the policies of the european union. more specifically, it provides an interface between technological research and its practical applications in the context of community policies. the joint research centre carries out fundamental research and contributes know-how and scientific and technical support to the policies of the european union. one of its key functions is to promote the transfer of technologies derived from research results in order to create industrial added value and to support community policies in the field of innovation. the importance of the energy issue for europe calls for the centre to be provided with the appropriate means to pursue the specific objectives in this area.
in writing. - the chernobyl and, more recently, fukushima disasters have cast doubt on nuclear technology and its economic and social added value. however, despite all the disagreeing voices, the nuclear question remains very topical, not only because of the need to monitor the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations and ensure the safety of waste management, but also, and fundamentally, because of a scientific and technological modernization issue, both in terms of energy production and medicine. this report, by jan březina, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013), to be implemented through direct actions by the joint research centre. despite the economic and financial crisis, i believe that the eu should continue to support the implementation of this framework programme, in particular through educational programmes in the nuclear energy sector promoting high-level training, the award of research grants and the operationalization of methodologies that take into account the safety of decommissioning of inactive or obsolete nuclear reactors.
in writing. - in times of crisis we have to ensure that the implementation of the framework programmes of the various eu bodies is well implemented. in the specific case of the european atomic energy community, it is important that funds are well used to safeguard potential safety risks as well as in research towards the discovery of cleaner atomic energy with less environmental risks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council decision on the specific programme to be implemented through direct actions by the joint research centre, implementing the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013). this report relates to a7-0358/2011, which also concerns research in the field of fusion, fission and radiation protection. however, this report deals with direct action whereas the previous one dealt with indirect action. the main intention of these reports is to ensure the continuation of eu-funded research activities in these areas for another two years, taking into account the activities successfully carried out in the period 2007-2011.
in writing. - following the evaluation carried out by the committee on industry, research and energy, i voted in favour of the proposal for a specific programme for the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities to be carried out by means of direct actions by the joint research centre, as i believe that it meets the objectives of the community's energy policy.
in writing. − the euratom framework programme (euratom fp7) 2007-2011 consists of two specific programmes (one for indirect actions and the other for direct actions) which will end at the end of this year. the european commission has put forward a proposal to extend the specific programme of 'direct actions' for a two-year period (2012-2013) to ensure the continuation of nuclear research and training activities funded by the european union (eu). i am voting in favour of this decision of the european parliament because it is important to increase funding for the sector and to provide more grants for nuclear researchers, as this is the only way to ensure that the eu does not lose its leading role on a global scale. i also believe that a multiannual programme should be drawn up setting out the scientific and technological priorities, the objectives of research and training activities and the dates for their implementation.
in writing. − i approve this legislative package because it confirms the continuation of support for research and development under the 7th euratom framework programme 2007-2011, extending the period until the end of the multiannual financial plan which ends in 2013.
in writing. - i share the concerns of those who have serious doubts about nuclear energy: about its cost, about the fate of its radioactive waste and about the safety of its facilities (whether due to accidents of their own, to terrorist attacks or other criminal acts or to natural disasters such as those that occurred in fukushima, japan). i have an ambivalent view of mr březina's reports. i recognize that some of the lines of research may even be positive in that they focus on strengthening safety and protecting the population, but others are clearly intended to continue the efforts of an industry which is in several european states in the process of phasing out. that is why i decided to abstain in the final vote on both the reports on the implementation of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training (direct and indirect actions) and on the report on the proposal on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under this programme and for the dissemination of research results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the participation of companies, research centres and universities in indirect actions of the european atomic energy community framework programme, because it is part of a legislative package which aims to continue support for research and development activities under the 7th euratom framework programme (2007-2011) by adapting it to the current eu multiannual financial framework until 2013.
in writing. - scientific knowledge is hardly bound by borders or types of institutions, and the need for cooperation between public institutes, companies and universities and the substantial gain that comes from these partnerships for all those involved is now evident. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. - this report, by jan březina, focuses on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013). despite the disasters at chernobyl and, more recently, at fukushima, the nuclear question remains very topical, not only because of the need to monitor the dismantling of obsolete nuclear power stations and ensure the safety of waste management, but also, and fundamentally, because of a scientific and technological modernization issue, both in terms of energy production and medicine. the eu needs to allocate funds so that the eu framework programme in this area continues to promote the participation of institutions dedicated to innovation and technological development such as certain companies, research centres and universities. despite the economic crisis, the eu must remain at the forefront of research in this area, so as not to lose its leadership or to put in question all the know-how acquired over the years. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the extension of the indirect actions of the framework programme of the european atomic energy community is not only desirable but also welcome. it can provide new discoveries, so important in the safe use of atomic energy, an increasingly pressing topic on the alternative energy agenda.
in writing. − this report, supplementing a7-0358/2011 and a7-0340/2011, refers to the proposal for a council regulation (euratom) laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013). the report by the committee on industry, research and energy was voted unanimously, and the european parliament, through its rapporteur, inserted in the commission's text certain guarantees concerning the implementation of the programmes and the penalties for non-compliance. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the european atomic energy community and for the dissemination of research results, as i believe that it is essential that non-public bodies are involved in research activities, as this is the most appropriate way of building a genuine knowledge society.
in writing. − the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for 2012-13 should include further actions to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in terms of scientific excellence and implementation of key innovations in the field of nuclear energy. i support this report because i believe that it is a positive step to increase investment in education, training, innovation, industry, employment and the environment, and that this programme will help to increase the competitiveness and modernisation of european enterprises. i would also like to emphasize that the new fp will promote the participation of the outermost regions and stimulate the creation of networks between companies, research centres and universities.
in writing. − nuclear energy has been referred to as one of the lowest carbon forms of energy, but its use is always the subject of great controversy, whether because of the difficulty of dealing with nuclear waste or because of safety issues. but we think it is important that research should also be carried out in this area and that, along with other research, particularly in renewable energies, it can contribute to understanding and solving the decline in the fossil fuel bill and dependence which is now being experienced in several member states of the european union. we are concerned about some of the assumptions in this report, especially those which end up promoting nuclear energy, when we know the dangers to the population and the environment arising from aspects relating to the safety of power stations and reactors, the treatment and transport of waste from the production of this type of energy and the decommissioning of installations.
in writing. - i approve this report, which is unanimous in most of the proposals. i note that, in line with the view of my group, the effective implementation of this directive would be greatly facilitated by the introduction of a european-wide professional portfolio.
in writing. − professional mobility is an essential element for economic development, sustainable economic recovery and the relaunch of the internal market. while citizens expect recognition of their professional qualifications to be easy and automatic, they are often disappointed. this report, which i supported, argues that the future revision of the vocational qualifications directive should be based on the following objectives: to simplify the procedures for the recognition of qualifications; to modernise the existing legislative framework; to strengthen trust and cooperation between member states. the european commission should also develop guidelines for the time limit for obtaining a decision from the competent authority on the recognition of qualifications. citizens should also be given the possibility to apply electronically for access to a regulated profession, thus reducing waiting times. finally, it should be stressed that the question of mobility should not be dissociated from the question of the transferability of social security rights and pension rights.
in writing. − there are still many barriers, directly or indirectly, which continue to hinder the free movement of people within the eu and the ability of citizens to fully benefit from the benefits of the single market, including the right to work or provide services in another member state. the right to recognition of academic qualifications and professional qualifications can only truly exist when national rules which tend to make it disproportionately difficult to exercise the right to skilled employment are eliminated. the evolution of markets itself calls for greater transparency, simplification and flexibility of the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications, where cross-border mobility should contribute to a more efficient functioning of labour markets and foster economic growth and competitiveness in the eu. i therefore support the need to modernise and improve this directive in order to ensure a clear legal framework, by strengthening the system of recognition of professional qualifications, by establishing measures for automatic recognition, by removing prejudices and formal obstacles to such recognition. while ensuring that the transposition and implementation of this directive is finally completed in all member states. i also welcome the use of more efficient and appropriate technologies to facilitate and speed up the recognition process.
in writing. - in the current economic and financial context, skilled managers often seek and exploit economic dynamics within the european area itself to their advantage. the free movement of persons, the freedom to provide services and the freedom of establishment are some of the basic pillars of the process of european integration. these are distinct principles and have been the subject of judgments by the ecj, as identified in the report. i therefore believe that the community legal framework governing internal labour migration should be improved, optimized, simplified and made clearer in order to fully respect the rights of european citizens and promote a more competitive internal market, as the rapporteur has advocated. the simplification of the process of recognition of qualifications, the full integration of professionals and the introduction of a professional portfolio for some professions to strengthen confidence in the system are procedures listed in the report and which i believe the union should apply. i am voting in favour of this report because it represents a further step forward in the process of european construction which is planned and under way and which we hope to see completed one day!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the free movement of skilled workers to be one of the fundamental benefits of european cooperation and a competitive internal market. cross-border mobility will contribute to more efficient functioning of labour markets and will favour economic growth and the eu's own competitiveness.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of professionals, especially in terms of the recognition of their qualifications, is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery. in addition, the free movement of professionals is only truly possible if there are simple rules for the recognition of qualifications which do not act as a barrier to mobility. this is why we should welcome this report, which aims, among other things, to reduce the length of the procedures for the recognition of qualifications through the use of information technology and to update uniformly and regularly, and in line with scientific and technical developments, the minimum training conditions for professionals in the various sectors of activity.
in writing. - bureaucracy is a problem which has led the european parliament on several occasions to reflect and take measures to deal with it. the aim of a free and functioning single market often comes up against administrative procedures that are incomprehensible to many european citizens. this report, by emma mcclarkin, looks at the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications (doctors, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, etc.) by many european citizens who would like to practise their profession in any member state of the european union but who are currently faced with the complexity and time-consuming nature of recognition procedures. this is therefore a priority issue, but it must take account of certain essential aspects, such as the language of the host state, the responsibility of the professional and the safety of citizens by means of a proactive alert in the event of a non-qualified professional. i welcome the adoption of this report which will help to improve the mobility within the eu of various professionals, which will not only help to reduce unemployment rates within the community but also fill many shortages of skilled human resources in some of the member states.
in writing. - the report has some positive aspects, although it is not without some contradictions. the current economic and social context, characterized by a deep crisis in several countries, such as portugal, is a factor of pressure on many workers, especially the youngest, to emigrate in search of work wherever it exists. mobility thus arises not as a desired option, determined by a choice between different possible alternatives, but as an exit towards which one is pushed by the absence of an alternative in the country of origin. it is of course important for those who want to work in a country other than their own to want their professional qualifications to be recognised. but there are issues that need to be taken into account, whether in relation to health professions, the historical and cultural component of the country concerned or the language itself. it is therefore necessary that the recognition of professional qualifications should not affect the rights of consumers and users of services. but above all, it is necessary to encourage and support the creation of jobs with rights in all member states so that people can actually work where they want, and are not forced to leave their country just because they do not have a job.
in writing. − the free movement of an increasing number of highly qualified workers is one of the fundamental benefits of european cooperation. i believe that all indirect obstacles to citizens' mobility in europe must be removed, without compromising labour rights and protection, and by striking a balance between mobility and the quality of vocational qualifications. the mobility of european workers has been particularly marked in the area of health and, given its immediate impact on public health, needs clear and transparent rules to ensure mobility and safety. this directive is in that direction, and i have therefore voted in favour. although it is not within the scope of this directive, i believe that the free movement of citizens within the union should be further developed, in particular by giving equal rights to citizens of all countries of the european union.
in writing. − the implementation of this directive is very important to facilitate doctors, engineers, dentists and all other professions the opportunity to work in another eu country. we have thus increased the flexibility of the labour market. this can only happen through the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and their rapid implementation, with due regard to the reliability and safety of their performance. accelerating the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications would also help young europeans to believe that a professional experience is possible in any member state. in this context of crisis, all european professionals are looking forward to increased mobility to pursue their professions. one way of simplifying the overly bureaucratic procedures is the introduction of a voluntary occupational passport to be inserted immediately into the existing information system in the internal market, capable of connecting to public authorities throughout the eu.
in writing. − this report on the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications calls on the commission not to fragment the process of modernising automatic recognition as proposed in the green paper and to ensure that any substantial changes to the directive are subject to parliament's scrutiny. i would stress in this report the call for greater mobility of graduates and for compliance with the judgment in morgenbesser, which held that member states should encourage paid supervised traineeships for graduates from other member states when they also offer the same possibility to their own nationals. professional experience acquired during supervised traineeships shall also be recognised in the home member state of the holder of the licence.
in writing. the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications has proved to be an important instrument for enhancing the mobility of workers between the different member states and ensuring that supply and demand match in the european labour market. in the context of the evaluation of the results achieved in the meantime, the need is emphasized not to create additional difficulties for the mobility of workers, without prejudice to the recognition that measures should be taken to prevent mobility from jeopardizing the safety and health of consumers. this will be the case, for example, of health professionals who, having been prevented from exercising their activity in one member state, move to another country, thus avoiding being held liable. in general, the integration process must continue, not only by promoting the mobility of workers but also by creating coordinated mechanisms to combat fraud. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − mobility within the eu's borders is one of the four freedoms of the eu and a sine qua non for the completion of the single market. the recognition of qualifications, which is necessary to boost the mobility of highly qualified people and workers, should be a process that is not bureaucratic. this directive distinguishes between the freedom to provide services and the freedom of establishment, in accordance with the criteria established by the court of justice: duration, frequency, regularity and continuity of the provision of services. the automatic recognition process has been hugely successful, whereas the recognition process under the general system, based on professional experience, is excessively time-consuming and complex and therefore incompatible with the free movement of citizens. the creation of a proactive alert system is also essential to prevent professionals who are suspended or prevented from exercising their profession from doing so in another member state. the eu's competitiveness is based on its know-how, so the process of simplifying the recognition of professional qualifications and diplomas is urgently needed to tackle the obstacles to economic growth in the european area. the creation of an information portal will inform european citizens of their rights.
in writing. - i vote in favour. i believe that, following this report, the commission should take an important step, as envisaged, towards improving policies in this area and, in particular, towards ensuring greater consumer protection, in particular by creating a consumer agenda, while at the same time taking constant account of the statistics of the consumer assessment panel.
in writing. − the european commission intends to publish a consumer agenda in may 2012, following up on the community strategy on consumer policy 2007-2013. this report argues that the consumer agenda should cover all the relevant issues and challenges we face in these areas. as regards food products and health and safety, the new consumer agenda should address the threat posed by antibiotic-resistant bacteria, starting with the phase-out of the widespread and clinically unfounded use of antibiotics in the meat industry. it is also important to take initiatives to reduce the exposure of consumers and the environment to hazardous chemicals. the rapex notification system should be made more transparent and efficient. the agenda should also address the issue of protecting children from advertising and unhealthy food. finally, as regards promoting the interests of the digital consumer, it is important to provide the consumer with a safe social environment, to guarantee access to telecommunications networks as a means of social and economic inclusion, while respecting the fundamental rights of the consumer, in particular the protection of his personal data. for these reasons i have supported this report.
in writing. − promoting the rights, prosperity and well-being of consumers is one of the eu's core values. i welcome the european commission's initiative to create a consumer agenda which should cover all relevant issues and challenges in the area of consumer protection. it is urgent to reduce the disparities between european consumers in this sector, to apply and enforce existing legislation and to face the new challenges facing society today: the globalisation of markets, the digitalisation of the economy, the ageing of the population, carbon emissions and food protection. there is a lack of awareness among consumers of their rights, which should be addressed through better information, better labelling and an active role of public authorities as well as consumer organisations, ensuring special protection for particularly vulnerable categories of consumers (whether because of disability or weakening of their social and financial situation). i think it is important to provide adequate financial support, and not just financial support, to consumer organisations as a means of combating the lack of consumer information and, as a result, to give the european supervisory authorities more powers and responsibilities.
in writing. − this own-initiative report analyses the unavoidable need to safeguard and strengthen existing consumer policy legislation, which i believe is crucial for the proper functioning of the european internal market. the rapporteur examines the challenges facing the european consumer protection policy, and in particular the commission's forthcoming communication on the consumer agenda, and makes a number of proposals, which are currently being negotiated between the various political groups. the idea of putting the consumer at the centre of the common market legislative framework, while obvious, is often forgotten by legislators, both at european and member state level. the report also highlights the principles of consumer empowerment and reducing inequalities, encouraging sustainable consumption, reducing exposure to dangerous products and protecting against misleading advertising, especially to children. i voted in favour of this report and i congratulate my colleague on the conciliation effort with the various political groups in parliament, stressing that in times of economic and financial crisis consumer protection is essential for a rational, effective and fair structure of the whole system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the commission's proposal to revise the european consumer policy and its legislative strategy. i would, however, stress the need for better coordination between consumer policy and social and environmental objectives in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − consumer rights and their protection in community law is one of the main pillars of the functioning of the internal market. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to put the consumer at the centre of policies aimed at the better completion of the internal market. i would like to reiterate that i believe that adequate consumer protection and safety is fundamental to the proper functioning of markets and trade, which is an essential condition for competitiveness and growth. in this connection, it is essential to strike the necessary balance between a high level of consumer protection, particularly in terms of the information provided to consumers and the level of liability for damage caused to them, and the costs this will impose on businesses. i would now like to commend the commission's work on the proposal on unfair trading practices, which is crucial for a proper consumer protection policy and the internal market.
in writing. − the primary objective of european union policy is to improve the quality of life of european citizens. in a liberalised society, where we need consumer products to live, we are often exposed to certain opportunistic markets that take advantage of the weaknesses of consumers. the eu is implementing a community strategy on consumer policy from 2007 to 2013. with the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy, the issue of consumption has gained further importance due to the need to combat climate change, poverty and social exclusion and to increase employability. given that private consumption accounts for 56% of eu gdp, it is imperative that private consumption becomes more sustainable. to this end, the consumer agenda is planned to be launched during the month of march 2012. this is a key initiative to tackle a number of issues: ensuring consumer safety, promoting a low-carbon economy, preventing food waste, promoting recycling, reducing consumer inequalities, ensuring financial and food services protection and providing better information. i therefore voted in favour of this report by mr kyriacos triantaphyllides.
in writing. the alternative proposal on the new strategy on consumer policy put forward by the rapporteur, on which consensus was reached, should be registered as positive. this proposal better reflects the concerns about neoliberal policies which are undermining the fundamental rights of citizens. the commission also pays greater attention to the problems of consumers, especially the most vulnerable sections of the population, in the context of the current serious economic and social crisis in several member states. in addition to information campaigns, monitoring and product testing, it is essential to ensure that all populations, including workers, children, young people, women and migrants, have sufficient income to access essential goods and services such as food, health, energy, transport and housing.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers. the commission has thus better reflected the concerns about neoliberal policies that are undermining the fundamental rights of citizens and has thus sought to give greater attention to the difficulties of consumers, especially the most vulnerable sections of the population, in the context of the serious economic and social crisis in several member states. in addition to information campaigns, monitoring and product testing, it is essential to ensure that all populations, including workers, children, young people, women and migrants, have sufficient income to access all essential goods and services, such as food, health, energy, transport and housing, which enable them to live in dignity.
in writing. - this report is a step forward in consumer protection. it intends to launch the strategic lines to be covered by the consumer agenda, to be published by the european commission next year. this agenda should give top priority to food, health and product safety, including financial products. the implementation of these measures should also contribute to reducing inequalities between consumers in europe, to promoting a low-carbon economy and to better protecting children from advertising, as well as older people and those who have become more vulnerable in the current crisis. i voted yes.
in writing. − the inconsistency in vat rules applicable to products sold in physical cultural content in electronic form has long been a matter of concern to the eu. this new strategy is welcome and in line with the evolution of european consumers, who are increasingly buying cultural content (music, newspapers, magazines, books, etc.) via the internet. given that member states may apply reduced vat to cultural goods by physical means in order to promote access to these products, it does not seem to me right that the same products, because they are sold online, should be treated differently. we are therefore talking about an aspect of the vat directive which is completely obsolete in the face of new consumer trends. it is therefore important that this point be revised so that there is no different vat just because the same products are sold through different distribution channels. this development, together with the copyright reform, will facilitate the free circulation of audiovisual content online, thus contributing to the creation of a true digital internal market.
in writing. − the european commission intends to publish a consumer agenda in may 2012 as a follow-up to the community strategy on consumer policy for 2007-13. this agenda will be published in the form of a commission communication and will include all consumer initiatives from 2012 onwards, but will be broader in scope than the consumer policy strategy 2007-13. the european parliament, in this report, welcomes this ambitious approach and calls on the commission to also launch a green paper on the subject so that a concrete basis for debate with consumer rights organisations, citizens, parliaments and national governments can be provided. this would be an important milestone in eu consumer policy, giving for the first time concrete meaning to the principle enshrined in the eu treaty that consumers' interests must be taken into account in all other relevant eu policies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - since its inception, the european union, as an area of freedom, has taken consumer protection as its flag. a new strategy on consumer protection is now before the european parliament. this new strategy is an important milestone in consumer policy in that it is the first time that the principle enshrined in the tfeu that the interests of consumers must be taken into account in all other union policies is given concrete meaning. the strategy, which was put into practice with the publication of the consumer agenda, focuses on more sustainable private consumption, food and product safety, the protection of children from today's aggressive advertising, and the development of a digital environment that enables consumers to absorb the maximum amount of information. the aim is essentially to adapt the regulatory instruments available to the challenges that have emerged, promoting the improvement of service provision and safeguarding consumer health and the environment itself. i voted in favour of this approach because i considered it appropriate.
in writing. − this report advocates a broader perspective on the consumer agenda, which requires a coherent legal framework and an approach that puts consumers at the centre of the internal market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the directive and will continue to monitor the implementation of the directive. the european parliament therefore calls on the european commission to improve the criteria and conditions for carrying out impact assessments and to review european legislation where necessary, as well as to promote good practice among member states to improve the implementation of existing legislation.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it sets out balanced measures to better control online gambling. the most important thing in this area is to punish and detect illegal operators, and in this respect it is crucial to keep up to date on a subject like this, which is constantly expanding.
in writing. − there is a significant supply and demand for online gambling in the eu, and the economic importance of this sector is growing. online gambling is the fastest growing segment of the gambling market, accounting for around 10% of the overall annual revenues of this market. the challenges posed by the coexistence of different regulatory models have led to the development of important so-called illegal online grey markets in all member states. this market should be open and sufficient incentives should be created for firms to offer a legal offer, the best model being licensing, provided it is based on the principle of non-discriminatory competition. an open and regulated online gambling market presupposes an independent and strong national regulatory body. given the cross-border nature of the internet, strong cooperation between national regulatory authorities is indispensable and institutionalised cooperation is necessary, based on the internal market information system. equally important is the establishment of minimum rules for the protection of minors, the fight against gambling addiction and the fight against money laundering and other forms of gambling-related crime. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − with the increase in internet use, the increasing prevalence of betting on online gaming services and the fragmentation (or lack thereof) of legislation at eu level, action on this activity at community level is necessary to control a fast-growing market with about 85% of its activity unregulated. the internet is by its very nature a platform for cross-border connectivity. given the nature of the phenomenon, it is necessary to take regulatory measures to control this activity and to make it profitable in the context of the european internal market. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which has already been confirmed by a decision of the ecj, gambling has been excluded from the services directive, so that member states can continue to regulate their markets, provided that such regulations are consistent with the objectives pursued, for example, in combating gambling addiction. i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that there is a need to set up an institutionalized cooperation network, coordinated by the commission and based on the internal market information system, in order to share information in a rapid, efficient and effective way in the european area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that member states should continue to decide on the regulatory systems they wish to apply in their respective territories in line with the case law of the cjeu, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity and takes account of public policy requirements and different national cultures and traditions. i believe, however, that the eu has an important role to play in this area, in particular by strengthening cooperation between the regulatory authorities of the member states, where the fight against illegal gambling on the internet is of paramount importance.
in writing. − the online gambling market is growing steadily, representing today some 10% of all gambling in europe and a turnover of over eur 10 billion. however, this is a market which remains largely unregulated, with all the dangers this poses to consumers. at present, of the 14 823 online gambling sites in europe, more than 85% operate without any licence. this is therefore an area which lacks attention and self-regulation. however, in line with what is advocated by the vast majority of states, the competences in the field of gambling should remain with the member states, and the eu may establish guidelines and directives in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the report by jürgen creutzmann deals with online gambling in the european internal market. the widespread availability of the internet has brought new problems for governments and their controllers. one of the fastest growing markets on the internet or similar distribution channels (mobile phones or interactive television platforms) is the online gambling market, which currently represents around 10% of all gambling in europe. if there are member states where these games are properly controlled, as in france, there are others where there is no regulation or control whatsoever, which, in addition to representing a significant loss of revenue, allows indiscriminate access to these platforms, in particular by minors who end up becoming addicted. because the internet is a cross-border medium, legislative harmonisation is urgently needed not only for the sake of fairness (unfair competition against licensed online operators by illegal operators), but also to control the black market and prevent the tax evasion of millions of euros that could, and should, be spent on public works or social programmes. i therefore voted in favour and hope that the member states will quickly implement the measures now adopted.
in writing. - the development of common community rules on this subject of online games is very problematic, given their specific nature and the social risks involved. it is important to take into account the cultural aspects and traditions which differentiate the member states in this field. in some of them, public entities control this sector of games of chance and luck, with their revenues channelled to social intervention, important in supporting the most deprived populations. this is the case in portugal. these specificities should be recognised and maintained, ensuring that this area is always a matter for member states to decide, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity and sovereignty. we are also concerned about the already serious problem of gambling addiction, which could worsen if access to gambling is made easier, particularly for young people. even with the care that is mentioned in the report, there is no guarantee that access to drugs will not become easier and that the problems of addiction will not multiply, especially among young people.
in writing. - the development of community positions on this issue of online games is very problematic, given their specific nature and the social risks involved. of course, because it can serve to increase the already serious problem of gambling addiction by making it easier to access, especially for young people. even with the care that is mentioned in the report, there is no guarantee that access to it will not become easier and that the problems of addiction will not multiply, especially among young people. in particular, account must also be taken of the different cultures and traditions of the member states, particularly those where there are public entities that control this sector of games of chance, earmarking their revenues for the fundamental social intervention to support the most deprived populations, as in the case of portugal. this must be maintained and protected, ensuring that this area is always a matter for the member states to decide, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity and sovereignty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims to achieve two fundamental objectives when it comes to gambling: the protection of minors and the prevention of addiction. the report calls for the regulation of online gambling to be ensured through the issuing of gambling licences, which also allows the fight against illegal gambling. more than enough reasons to vote for it.
in writing. - the online gambling market is growing steadily. according to current figures, around 10% of all gambling in europe takes place on the internet or through similar distribution channels such as mobile phones or interactive television platforms, with a growing trend and a market volume of over eur 10 billion. the face-to-face and online gambling markets are characterised by a wide range of products: on the one hand, classic lottery and lottery games, but also sports betting, poker, bingo and horse and greyhound racing betting, as well as the mutual betting process. the internet is naturally a cross-border medium. so online gambling does not stop at borders. the current fragmentation of the european market in this area is becoming more and more apparent, as supply is constantly increasing and the number of players is increasing. in several member states there are total bans or bans subject to authorisation, but others have a completely open and liberalised market.
in writing. - this report on online gambling in the internal market comes at a time when the online gambling market is booming. according to current figures, around 10% of all gambling in europe takes place on the internet or through similar distribution channels, with an increasing trend and a market volume of over eur 10 billion. in view of the many cases of sports betting fraud which have called into question the integrity of sport, it is in the direct interest of all stakeholders, namely sports associations, fans, gambling operators and players, that the integrity of sport is ensured and betting fraud is prevented. i voted in favour of the concerns of the sector in portugal, defending the rapporteur's initial proposals which better defended the fight against illegal gambling and the dangers it poses. the surgical amendments proposed further reduce consumer protection, make the world of financial transactions more opaque and prevent effective combating of crime and fraud (specifically money laundering), so i voted against these amendments.
in writing. - the online gambling market has experienced strong growth over the last decade. it is estimated that it already represents 10% of the market. however, the ease of access by consumers, regardless of their age and where they access, leads to an increase in situations of gambling addiction on the one hand and of difficulty for states to control the exercise of these activities on the other. this justifies a joint eu approach guided by the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - this own-initiative report is the european parliament's position on the european commission's green paper on online gambling in the european internal market. the development of the internet and the increase in the supply of online gambling services require particular attention, which the commission is trying to promote in its proposal by means of a number of issues: better definition and organisation of these services, consumer protection, prevention of fraud and money laundering and the guarantee of secure online payment systems. however, according to the position of the court of justice of the eu, the organisation of online games is a competence of the member states, and there should, however, be strong cooperation between the various national authorities due to the cross-border nature of these games. it should also be noted, as a regulatory principle, that online gambling operators may only provide services or apply for licences in member states if they do not act unlawfully in another member state.
in writing. - i approve this report. it is important to stimulate and develop this important sector, which is the source of income for some 600 000 european citizens. i note that as an economic and social activity it plays a key role in the sustainable development of rural areas, generates employment and provides an important service to the ecosystem through pollination, which contributes to the improvement of biodiversity by maintaining the genetic diversity of plants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on bee health and challenges for the beekeeping sector, for it contains proposals to increase the funding available for the beekeeping sector, support research and development of new veterinary medicines specifically for bee diseases and promote the enforcement of legislation on pesticides. it should be underlined that beekeeping is a crucial sector for society, given its contribution to biodiversity, the sustainability of agriculture and food security.
in writing. − beekeeping is a very old form of food gathering by humans and has a very long tradition on the european continent. the need to protect this sector and to develop studies to ensure the good health of bees, which are facing increasing threats, is clear. despite the fact that this sector is most closely linked to honey production, the impact of bee action on nature goes far beyond honey production, with many plant species dependent on bee pollination. bees are therefore an essential element for the preservation of ecosystems as we know them and should deserve particular attention from veterinary authorities and be considered in the context of european agricultural policy.
in writing. − most eu citizens are unaware of the role bees play in preserving ecosystems and, consequently, the survival of the human species. einstein said that if there were no bees, life on the planet would end in four years. this report, by mr csaba sándor tabajdi, focuses on the problems facing the beekeeping sector, particularly as regards bee health, and the challenges facing the sector. as well as providing an income for over 600 000 eu citizens, beekeeping, an integral part of european agriculture, not only contributes to the preservation of biodiversity but is also vital to agricultural activity due to pollination. unfortunately, this is a poor sector because of the lack of support from the pharmaceutical industry. on the other hand, the lobby of plant protection products is against the removal of active substances harmful to bees in these products. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report and hope that these measures will soon be adopted by all the member states and implemented by farmers and, in particular, beekeepers.
in writing. the report addresses a problem whose persistence, without a consistent solution to stop it being found to date, is a matter of serious concern: the general and continuing weakening of bee colonies and the decline of natural pollinator populations. while we are certain that some of the specific proposals in the report may be important, especially in the short term, we do not think that the approach taken and the philosophy behind it are the most correct. in particular, the report does not touch on a fundamental issue which is inseparable from this problem, namely the need to change existing production models and the policies - such as the cap - which support them. that is why we supported the alternative resolution, which unfortunately was not adopted. the resolution makes a strong criticism of intensive farming models based on a high incorporation of pesticides and proposes alternative sustainable production methods that respect and promote biodiversity, with concrete proposals to achieve them. it is not, however, without contradictions, particularly with regard to gmos and the manifest reversal of the precautionary principle, since the moratorium on cultivation should be prior to the studies and not subsequent, as is wrongly advocated.
in writing. − this report calls for increased support for research and development of veterinary medicines to combat the current pathogens affecting bees in the eu, especially the varroa destructor mite. but the report does come up against some contradictions. the commission should also be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. but the report also stresses the need to provide incentives to the pharmaceutical industry for the development of new medicines to combat bee diseases. however, we agree to insist on more financial resources for beekeeping, by strengthening support for the beekeeping sector under the cap after 2013, and by ensuring the continuation and strengthening of existing support programmes. it is also good to insist on the creation of a safety net or a common insurance system for beekeeping in order to mitigate the impact of crisis situations on beekeepers or to support training programmes for beekeepers on disease prevention and control.
in writing. - 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination. the report recognises that pesticides and genetically modified organisms are adversely affecting these populations. monoculture is responsible for the disappearance of the honeybees. however, it calls for more control and studies of the effects of pesticides and monoculture, but maintains the paradigm of industrial intensive agriculture. it merely calls for training on the use of plant protection products beneficial to bees. the gmo case is more serious. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by road. the report calls for incentives for the pharmaceutical industry. i disagree. supporting producers to adopt new production methods and supporting the fight against identified causes is necessary, but not creating a new pharmaceutical business to ensure the perpetuation of bad practices and the creation of new risks. i welcome the ban on the import of exotic bombus sp. and the harmonization of labels and the increased traceability of honey. i think it is essential for parliament to identify the causes of the problems, and this report does that. but it is taking too few steps towards resolving these causes, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − bee mortality is a serious problem that must be tackled, as if it is not addressed it will have a 'profound negative impact on agriculture, production and food security'. it is therefore necessary for the commission to increase support for research into the prevention and control of diseases affecting bees and for the allocation of more resources to beekeeping under the cap after 2013. increased support for research and development of veterinary medicines to combat the current pathogens affecting bees in the eu, in particular the varroa destructor mite, is essential. some 76% of food production in the eu depends on bee pollination. this number gives us a sense of the seriousness of the problem for agriculture, for food production and security, for biodiversity, for environmental sustainability and for ecosystems. more flexible rules should be laid down for the authorisation and making available of veterinary products for bees, including medicinal products of natural origin and other medicinal products which are not harmful to insect health.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the portuguese case is of particular importance in this context, since portugal is part of the group of member states with professional beekeeping. it should be noted that the importance of this sector is not only due to its economic dimension, despite all the relevant factors - some 600 000 community citizens depend on it directly or indirectly - but also to its environmental impact, since bees play a central role in the ecological balance. a holistic approach is therefore warranted to address the difficulties facing the sector, such as the recent increases in bee mortality, the presence of toxic agents that have impaired the health of the hives and the increasing average age of beekeepers, which are putting the sector's survival at risk. by making these concerns my own, i voted in favour.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on agriculture proposes a series of measures to help meet the challenges facing the beekeeping sector in recent years, which have contributed to the decline in products derived from bee activity. it calls for further studies to understand the factors that have led to the disappearance of a large number of bees whose activity is an integral part of european agriculture and contributes to the balance of ecosystems and biodiversity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive which provides for the reform of eu state aid rules applicable to services of general economic interest. these services are crucial for the individual, but they also play a vital role in the well-being of society as a whole. the amendments proposed in this reform focused mainly on clarifying the application of state aid rules, taking into account their enormous diversity, in particular clarifying the relationship between the internal market and the provision of public services, ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is applied in the definition, organisation and financing of these services. it was also stressed that any legal instrument should have to ensure satisfactory legal certainty.
in writing. - the importance of services of general economic interest in promoting fundamental rights and social, economic and territorial cohesion is undeniable. they thus contribute to combating social inequalities and promoting sustainable development, as well as to improving the economic performance and competitiveness of member states. they should undoubtedly play an important role in the europe 2020 strategy in pursuing the growth objectives, particularly in the areas of employment, training and social inclusion. in order to serve citizens properly, these services should be characterised by a high level of quality, safety and affordability, equal treatment and the promotion of universal access and user rights. despite the improvements introduced by the altmark package in 2005, there is still a need to make the legal instruments clearer, simpler, more proportionate and more effective in order to ensure a minimum satisfactory level of legal certainty. i welcome the commission's plans to review the state aid rules applicable to services of general economic interest in order to enhance the contribution that these services can make to the recovery of the eu economy as a whole and the promotion of sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, as it calls for greater simplification, clarity and proportionality in the application of community rules on services of general economic interest (sgei). this report responds to the need to create a more effective legal framework in support of these services. the measures advocated will also help to dispel uncertainties about what should be considered a legitimate defence of the sgeis or an unjustified breach of the european treaties.
in writing. − compensation granted by the state or public authorities to undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest is subject, in accordance with article 106 tfeu, to the provisions on state aid. in the context of the reform of eu state aid rules, it is necessary to ensure that competition rules do not preclude appropriate compensation for undertakings entrusted with the provision of services of general economic interest, and to take account of the importance of the services provided for the promotion of fundamental rights; for social, economic and territorial cohesion; for combating inequalities in society and for promoting sustainable development.
in writing. − the quality of life of european citizens a maxim found in all the treaties implies the existence of fully functioning services of general interest. these are basic services that we only become aware of when something goes wrong, such as a strike in the solid waste collection services, a breakdown in a high-voltage line that causes a blackout, or a rupture in a water supply pipe that prevents us from taking a shower in the morning. the report by peter simon focuses on the reform of the european union (eu) rules on state aid for economic services of general interest (sgeis). undeniable in their social function and in promoting economic and territorial cohesion, they also promote the europe 2020 strategy in the fields of employment, training and social integration. as such, we cannot expect them to be profitable services, but to benefit from state support. however, in view of the current economic and financial crisis, it is imperative to improve the rules for the granting of such aid. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, which establishes a new legal framework for support for sgeis, based on the principles of simplification, regulatory clarity and proportionality.
in writing. - the report contains undoubtedly positive aspects, including several considerations which run counter to the dominant neoliberal view in this parliament, which views public services as business areas, in a mercantilist perspective. some of the positions expressed have long been held by us, but are often rejected by the majority, including the main political groups (including the social democrats). for example: the position that public services should be of high quality and universal; the strengthening of investment in the modernisation of infrastructure in various areas; the opposition to the commission's imposition of the liberalisation of public services in third countries in free trade agreements (in the various names they may take: association agreements, economic partnership agreements, etc.); the provision of compensation amounts for all public services of general economic interest which member states consider to meet essential social needs, as well as the maintenance of unlimited exemption in favour of hospitals and social housing. however, the report insists on the division between services of general interest and services of general economic interest, which we disagree with. the fact is that many of these services are subject to competition rules and the possibilities for state intervention in defence of the common good and the pursuit of national interests are severely limited. that is why we abstained.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. examples of such cases are the positions we support, but which are not always supported by the majority of the ep, namely: that public services should be of high quality and universal, increased investment in the modernisation of infrastructure in various areas, the request that the commission not impose the liberalisation of public services in third countries, and that it ensure compensation amounts for all public services of general economic interest which member states consider to meet essential social needs, as well as the maintenance of unlimited exemption in favour of hospitals and social housing. but unfortunately it insists on the division between services of general interest and services of general economic interest, which in itself weakens the scope of the report. it provides for state aid only for these services as compensation granted by the state or public authorities to undertakings entrusted with the provision of services of general economic interest, subjecting them in many cases to the rules of competition. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the reform it advocates is to allow the economic services of general interest (seig) to be subject to clearer and simpler rules on state funding. i believe, however, that much remains to be done in this area and that the report does not fully meet all the needs identified. i believe that the road to universal and quality imps cannot be made without public funding and that we must therefore establish strict and fair funding rules. as it is a step towards a more just and supportive society, it deserves my vote.
in writing. − services of general interest play a decisive role for individual citizens and are also of paramount importance for the prosperity of society as a whole. the range of services is wide, and in the european union it is up to national, regional or local authorities to define what can be considered a service of general interest, i.e. what service should be offered in the general interest. however, these services have one common feature: services which the state or public authorities consider to be of particular importance for all citizens but which could not be provided without state intervention or could not be provided to a sufficient extent. the state intervention aims to ensure that all citizens have access to the services in question and that a supply of quality services at prices that are affordable to all citizens is possible. the provision of services of general interest also contributes to the successful implementation of the europe 2020 growth strategy, particularly in the fields of employment, training and social inclusion. particular importance is attached to social services of general interest, which play an important role in the defence of fundamental rights and make a crucial contribution to equal opportunities.
in writing. − this report deals with the reform of eu state aid rules for services which the state or public authorities consider to be of particular importance to all citizens and which could not be provided without state intervention. the state intervention aims to ensure that all citizens have access to the services in question and that a supply of quality services at prices that are affordable to all citizens is possible. the objectives of the reform the commission is pursuing are to bring greater clarity to the application of state aid rules to services of general economic interest and to ensure a differentiated and proportionate response to the different types of services of general economic interest. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - services of general economic interest are, in a sense, a reflection of the community economic model. while the aim is to ensure the universal provision of a given range of essential services, the aim is to assign their operation to private operators in order to achieve a higher degree of efficiency. however, given their obligation to provide services on a universal basis, private entities are entitled to compensatory allowances to cover the non-profit-making aspect of the activity. a proposal to revise the system of such compensation was submitted to the european parliament for its consideration. in this connection, i believe that, in addition to ensuring transparency in the application of the rules for awarding compensation, there is also a need to speed up the procedure, so that it is efficient. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − services of general economic interest (sgei) play a fundamental role in society and are of paramount importance to citizens. the state intervenes to ensure quick and efficient access to the services in question, with the aim of providing them at affordable and high quality. i agree with the report which aims to bring greater clarity in the application of state aid rules to sgeis, to increase overall legal clarity, to avoid bringing cases before the court of justice of the european union and to provide public services with greater operational efficiency. i would also like to stress that the sgeis are an important part of the common values of the european union, promoting fundamental rights and social, economic and territorial cohesion, and that it is crucial to adopt measures to simplify the application of state aid rules in the context of a more diversified approach.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the eu. the objective of reducing the number of poor people by some 20 million by 2020 should remain a top priority and the necessary budgetary resources should be allocated to this end.
in writing. − the phenomenon of poverty is multifaceted and its combating should be the subject of tailor-made policies, depending on the age group to which it is addressed and the objective needs of each person or group of people, which should be based on the universal principles enshrined in the european convention on human rights, because poverty and social exclusion are not compatible with the european social model that we are so proud to defend. it is important that action is taken at community level not only in terms of prevention and awareness-raising but also through greater coordination, through measures to effectively combat poverty and social exclusion and, of course, through micro-financing of specific policies implemented by the different member states, provided that they are in line with the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy. this mission is made all the more evident by the eu's repeated commitment to eradicating poverty, social exclusion and territorial cohesion. i generally agree with the content of the report, and i therefore voted in favour of it, mainly because of the commitments made by the rapporteur after hearing the other political groups, in particular the ppe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that although the fight against poverty and social exclusion is essentially the responsibility of national governments, the union should play a more prominent role in raising awareness, coordinating and financing. this platform, which is part of a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, will play a major role in reducing poverty, optimising european funds and improving the effectiveness of social protection systems.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis raises fears of a worsening of poverty and exclusion across europe. unfortunately, the ambitious objectives set by the lisbon strategy have proved difficult to achieve. in view of the multiple and large scale of the problems, greater european coordination is needed in this area in order to lift 20 million people out of poverty, as the europe 2020 strategy aims to do. the european union must not lose sight of the fact that it exists for the people, and that any initiatives it takes to combat poverty and social exclusion must not lose sight of the dignity of every human being, nor confuse the establishment of large bureaucratic structures with the effective help to those who need it most. if the multidisciplinary nature of the problem calls for a multidisciplinary response, the sensitivity of the programme calls for the fundamental rights of every human being to be kept in mind, bearing in mind the financial difficulties faced by the member states and the realism which this limitation imposes.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy sets the objective of reducing the number of people in precarious situations by 20 million by 2020. one of the seven flagship measures of this strategy is the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, whose framework for social and territorial cohesion was presented by the commission on 16 december 2010, as the european year against poverty and social exclusion was about to close. this report, by frédéric daerden, looks at the european platform against poverty and social exclusion and argues that solidarity between states and citizens must be a priority for the european union. the economic and financial crisis since 2008 has hampered economic growth and, consequently, job creation, one of the pillars of the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the eu should encourage member states to ease austerity policies through new investment, both public and private. i welcome the adoption of this report and hope that it will contribute to significantly reducing the number of 80 million european citizens at risk of poverty, including 20 million children.
in writing. - we regret that our proposals, which denounced the causes of poverty and proposed the alternatives needed to eradicate it, were not adopted, in particular the following: condemns the so-called austerity policies and programmes which are aggravating poverty and social exclusion; insists on the need for a fundamental change in community policies in the economic, financial and social fields which are at the root of current poverty, in particular the stability and growth pact, the euro plus pact, liberalisation and privatisation of essential public services; calls for the rejection of the jep and the euro plus pact and insists on their replacement by a pact for social progress and development which gives priority to employment with rights, social inclusion and poverty eradication; considers that the poverty affecting people who already have a job does not reflect fair working conditions and calls for efforts to be concentrated on changing this situation so that remuneration in general and minimum wages in particular, and regardless of whether they are defined by law or by collective agreements, can ensure a decent standard of living.
in writing. - this report comes at a time when we are witnessing the escalation of poverty in europe. more than 116 million people are at risk of poverty in the european union and some 42 million people live in situations of extreme deprivation. social protection standards are needed and the establishment of a roadmap for the european union and the member states is crucial in this serious socioeconomic context. however, if we are to effectively eradicate poverty, we must put an end to austerity policies and focus on job creation. i therefore abstained.
in writing. the european union, one of the richest regions in the world, has more than 80 million people at risk of poverty, including 20 million children and 8% of the working population. this situation is unacceptable in the light of the european values of justice and solidarity enshrined in the treaties. however, poverty and social exclusion have increased in recent years, despite the union's commitments to reduce them. the 2008 crisis and its aftermath have further exacerbated this problem, putting pressure on the most vulnerable populations. while the fight against poverty and social exclusion is primarily the responsibility of national governments, the union can nevertheless play an important role in raising awareness, coordinating and financing. to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth, it is essential to integrate the most vulnerable categories of people at the heart of the european project, given that poverty reduction is a driving force for future growth.
in writing. − poverty and social exclusion have increased in recent years, despite the european union's commitments to reduce them. the 2008 crisis and its aftermath have further exacerbated this problem, putting pressure on the most vulnerable populations. while the fight against poverty and social exclusion is primarily the responsibility of national governments, the union can nevertheless play an important role in raising awareness, coordinating and financing. to this end, and to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth, it is essential to integrate the most vulnerable categories of people at the heart of the european project, given that poverty reduction is a driving force for future growth. listening to the people on the ground was the concern that guided the preparation of this report, to which the actors involved have made a significant contribution by presenting proposals aimed at eradicating the scourge of poverty and social exclusion. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − poverty and social exclusion represent major obstacles to the integrated development of the various communities. a society with great social asymmetries is, in fact, prone to suffer situations of enormous instability, with clear losses ultimately for the citizens. unfortunately, even today, almost 20% of european citizens live below the so-called poverty line. it is therefore justified for the community institutions to adopt policies to help member states to deal with the social imbalances that are felt, so as to reduce and ideally eradicate the remaining poverty situations (which, in aggregate, cover 80 million community citizens). that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu has dedicated 2010 to the issue of poverty and social exclusion, in order to show the commitment of the institutions to eradicating poverty, as expressed in the lisbon strategy and the eu 2020 initiative, the european platform against poverty and social exclusion. this platform will enable member states to take a multi-dimensional approach with a framework to achieve the objectives and to reduce by 20 million the number of people in precarious situations by 2020. the eu has more than 80 million people at risk of poverty, including 20 million children and 8% of the working population. the multiplier effects of this problem call for an integrated but at the same time individualised response, since poverty and social exclusion are expressed in different ways. i think it is important to use the open method of coordination in order to regularise the monitoring in the member states of the objectives achieved in this fight and to allow the sharing of good practice. another point i would like to make is the emergence of so-called hidden poverty, which affects the middle class in european countries.
mr president, mr commissioner, you have understood that it would not be worth your while to be present in this debate. i will address the commissioner with the questions i had for him. if there were no other reasons for criticising what you have come to present to us - and there are so many that they would not fit into the minute of this speech - i would simply say to you: look around you. look at the economic and social disaster. look at the results of the policies that came here to tell us today that they are to continue. the questions are coming... how do they justify insisting on the rigidity of a stability pact which was already called stupid by the previous president of the commission and which, in the name of nominal convergence, prevents real convergence? how do they justify the fact that the instruments which allow speculation on sovereign debts remain essentially untouched? how do recession, unemployment, theft from workers and pensioners and the collapse of national economies justify the cover of the european union and imf aggression programmes? how do they justify the poverty of a community budget which makes cohesion the dead letter of the treaties? what kind of democracy is this where it is already the markets, this miraculous entity, that remove and appoint governments? i know it's no use asking you these questions. i am well aware that the answers are increasingly coming not from brussels but from berlin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate on the future of the european union. as president barroso has already stressed, the commission's policy and work programme are very much based on the principles of the european union, including solidarity. however, the commission's proposals for regulations provide for a 20% reduction in the budget for the convergence objective in the next financial perspective. there are new absorption thresholds, which imply a reduction in funding, for example for the baltic states. the commission is also proposing to increase funding for the so-called transition regions, but the richer member states can still provide for their poorer regions. the commission's decisions are contrary to the objectives of cohesion and solidarity, as disparities between member states will increase. during 2012, serious work is needed to improve and develop these proposals, which have little in common with solidarity. the same applies to direct payments. latvians receive €97 per hectare, but the netherlands, for example, receives five times more. the proposals foresee an increase to €144 for latvia, but the payments for the netherlands will be almost three times higher, although the climate and production conditions in latvia are not necessarily three times lighter and cheaper. this policy distorts competition, but fair competition is the principle of the european single market. the baltic states have fully opened their markets to producers from other countries, but this unfair competition is destroying our agriculture. finally, i would like to note that the delay in the high representative's report on the european union strategy for human rights policy is unacceptable. we'll have to work on that next year, too. thank you.
mr president, dr barroso left this debate early, too early, which was becoming very uncomfortable for him, just as he always arrives too late to the crises, the previous ones and this one. what is the great crisis in europe today? it is not the recapitalisation of the banks, that may be the immediate crisis, but the big crisis is that of the young graduate who is unemployed, it is that of the young master who is in a precarious job. 25 percent of young people unemployed in countries like portugal, france, the united kingdom, slovakia, and so on. 43 in greece, 45 in spain. this is the great crisis, and mr barroso mentioned it zero times in his speech. of the 127 measures for next year, dr durão barroso has proposed one on education, culture and youth, which is a non-legislative measure and, i should also say, not understandable. i'm going to tell you how we could fight the crisis by doing the exact opposite of what's in this program. firstly, to create universities in the union. our competitors in emerging countries have. brazil has federal universities, india has federal universities. well, let's do them in the european union too. second, we put these universities in the crisis countries. in other words, we should help the european union by helping these countries. and thirdly, we must give priority to these universities to work on what is currently putting a strain on the state budgets. for example, health care spending. the health care costs, which make us pay for the pharmaceutical companies with their artificial monopolies. the problem is not to break the backs of the unions because of what a nurse is paid in a hospital, but to break the backs of the cartels, which are now demanding extraordinarily draconian prices from the european states. these are three measures to combat the crisis. for that we need a european union with a big vision, one that the citizens can understand, and that is something that an unelected commission president will probably never be able to deliver.
madam president, everything has been said in this debate, even some nonsense as mr bloom godfrey said. the crisis has served as an alibi for not taking the ambitious decisions that the situation requires and that citizens expect, whether at economic, social or environmental level. so expectations for durban are quite low, but it is hoped that at least one step will be taken towards reaching a fair and legally binding international agreement that can achieve the goal of keeping global warming below 2°c. and for that we need willpower and political leadership. the european union should publicly and unequivocally confirm its commitment to find a successor to the kyoto protocol with ambitious and bold targets. and durban should also help to build on the progress made in cancún, notably with regard to the green climate fund and the adaptation committee. i recall that developed countries have committed to providing new resources over the period 2010-2012, with a minimum of usd 30 billion and usd 100 billion per year until 2020, to support mitigation and adaptation measures in vulnerable and least developed countries.
madam president, a year has passed since the cancun conference, two years since copenhagen, and there are still many unanswered questions, deadlocks and blockages. we are convinced that the difficulties and contradictions which mark these conferences are due in large part to the failure of the major industrial powers, including, of course, the european powers, to understand the true and profound meaning of the principle of common but differentiated responsibility. moreover, these powers almost always seem more interested in exploiting climate as a profitable business opportunity or in containing potential or actual competitors than in actually achieving real levels of emission reduction, which would necessarily imply challenging the current dominant economic and social organisation model on a global scale. we therefore insist on the need for a serious discussion on the perversity of market instruments, on the carbon market and on flexibility instruments as a mechanism for clean development. alternatives to this market approach are needed.
madam president, it is important that the european union maintains its leading role in the fight against climate change. the durban conference should make concrete proposals on the agreement on the second period of implementation of the kyoto protocol and on the negotiations under the convention. at the level of the negotiations under the convention, the cancún agreement on technology transfer, training, forests and the redesign of market mechanisms must be implemented. with regard to the second period of kyoto, europe must give its agreement on conditions such as: first, the existence of a plan with well-defined deadlines; second, a new separation between industrialized and developing countries; and third, the adoption of a sectoral approach for industrial sectors, with energy-intensive use as a solution to carbon leakage.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, we would like to bring to this debate a matter which concerns us very much and which the acp-eu parliamentary assembly will have to study further. it is the land grabbing in the acp countries, the so-called land grabbing. several reports refer to the vast area involved in this process of land grabbing for agrofuel production and to fuel speculation on land and food prices. the term 'shelter' is not misused: that's what this is about. the euphemistic term land acquisition, sometimes used, conceals the effects and consequences of the process, which involves the expulsion of farmers and local communities from their land. the european union has a responsibility in this situation, both because many of the companies involved in this process are european and because the legislation on fuels of renewable origin encourages the race to farmland in the acp countries. a race that threatens biodiversity, degrades soils and other natural resources and tends to dangerously accentuate the food deficit of many of these countries, hunger and poverty. another issue of concern is the conclusion of the so-called economic partnership agreements and the european commission's insistence on free trade. the rapporteur rightly says that more attention should be paid to the work of the parliamentary assembly. if you have paid attention to this during the past year, you will have noticed the repeated - fair, legitimate and entirely understandable - resistance which the acp countries have shown in relation to the epas. as they are designed, they may be very profitable for some european multinationals, but they will be disastrous for these countries. in conclusion, we would like to bring up an issue as old as it is current: that of debt and debt service. the economic and financial crisis and its effects on the acp countries require the cancellation of this enormous burden, which is a debt that has been paid several times and is nevertheless growing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, in the debate on this report at first reading, we drew attention to a conception of culture that is eminently instrumental in the european union. the rapporteur's aim is to use culture as a tool to strengthen the sense of belonging to the european union among european citizens. let us therefore talk about culture in the european union and let us talk about the cultural impact of the policies of the european union. we are talking specifically about the so-called financial assistance programmes of the european union and the imf, which are genuine programmes of aggression against democratic values, social and labour rights and culture. it is the heritage that is left to be abandoned, it is the poverty budgets, it is the restrictions on free creation and cultural enjoyment, it is the closure of schools, it is the increase in the prices of museums and cultural shows. it is in this context, and i cannot help but point out that it is largely imposed by the european union, that this report is being discussed. the point is to develop, from a symbolic cultural dimension, efforts to legitimize an integration whose orientation is, unfortunately, increasingly contrary to the interests and legitimate aspirations of the citizens. this initiative is therefore inseparable from the intense ideological struggle, which is naturally linked to the very lively social struggle which is taking place throughout the european union. let me tell you: in the context i have described here, it is not worth the effort. we would also like to raise another concern. heritage is a sensitive domain because it is inseparable from history. we hope that this will not be another door that opens to the disturbing and degrading processes of rewriting history that we have seen in several countries in recent years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to say that i am very pleased, but not surprised, to see in the speeches of the three presidents a great european commitment and a great desire to solve the present crisis. but it is essential that your energy and will also be transmitted to the heads of government and, in particular, to the heads of government of the countries with the greatest economic and financial weight in europe. because i have to say this: we have heard a lot of talk, and here behind the scenes in parliament too, about treaty change. but there will be no national public opinion, no electorate in the member states that will accept a change in the treaties if the european union is not able to solve the crisis, to offer a prospect of a solution to the situation. we can have the best institutional solution, we can have the best economic governance that we can imagine, the best solutions... if we do not show signs of resolving the crisis in the next six, seven, eight months, there will be no european electorate, no national parliament willing to change the rules of governance within the european union to change the treaties, which will give us the instruments to avoid such crises. and that is why i am calling on all the european institutions and bodies to come forward with a plan to solve the crisis once and for all, because, as my colleague mr garcía-margallo has rightly said, we have failed and failed again and again. and i would like to say that it is essential that this is always done by looking at the single market, the single market we have, and the 27 area and, in particular, the area with those countries which want to join the eurozone. because the solution to the crisis will not only be through austerity, but also through growth. and there is only growth if there is a single market. if we split into two europeans and break the logic of the single market, then it is certain that the sinking will not be the way to growth.
mr president, let's be honest with each other. we've been on a drug for three years to get out of this crisis, and it's getting worse by the day. instead of a cure, we've created two fatal vicious circles. the first between banks and states. in europe today, it is easier to discuss the bankruptcy of a state than that of a large bank, but it is still expected that banks should finance states and states should bail out their banks. this spiral has to be broken. the commission must move forward with european legislation to protect taxpayers from banking crises. but it is also vital to protect the debt of states from the attacks of speculators. and for that it is urgent, and already too late, to prepare coordinated sovereign debt issues, called eurobonds or stability bonds, and guarantee them through robust instruments of a community and non-intergovernmental nature. in short, we must also review the involvement of the european central bank. but the second vicious circle results from the argument that some states are rich because they are virtuous, while others are poor because they have sinned. this narrative is politically explosive and technically wrong. it ignores the essential fact that a single market and a single currency, constructed by political choice and among inequalities, necessarily exacerbate the imbalances in competitiveness between the centre and the periphery. and this is what needs to be attacked in economic governance. no, mr rompuy, by sanctions which promote the crushing of wages and incomes, with one country controlling another. firstly, through involvement, commissioner, of both the surplus and the deficit countries, so as to bring productivity together through investment, education and science. the sanctions have only generated unemployment, disillusionment and a recessionary wave from which we cannot escape.
mr president, mr rompuy came here and said that the governments were doing everything right, that the european semester was the alpha and the omega, that what was needed was more pressure, more pressure and more pressure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. mr barroso is talking about restoring confidence, strengthening growth policies, a pact with europeans and for europeans, the community method, more europe. mr juncker is telling us that we can do things one way or another, but there is not so much difference between form and content, what really matters is the end. he is a little disappointed with the european semester, because he says it should be more political and less technical... mr rompuy, mr barroso, mr juncker, are you listening to each other? if you can hear each other, can you hear yourselves? because you're screwing up europe.
in writing. from summit to summit, from document to document, the leaders of the european union are allowing the dictatorship of the markets to impose itself, allowing the crisis to spread to more countries, allowing the real theft to continue, carried out mainly through financial speculation, which then falls on the shoulders of the weakest economies, workers and populations. it is time to put an end to this path of economic and social disaster. the solution cannot be a budgetary dictatorship based on irrational nominal criteria, which exacerbates inequalities, increases unemployment and poverty and impoverishes the population, always to the benefit of economic and financial groups, and which is achieved through a so-called economic governance which is nothing more than the deepening of the centralization and concentration of economic and political power, putting democracy aside and opening the way to the deepening of social struggles and tensions. the fight against these policies will be the way forward, as will the general strike in portugal on 24 november.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 12 689 838 from the egf for ireland to support workers made redundant by 1 482 firms in division 41 (building) in the border, midlands and western and southern and eastern regions.
in writing. - given the various repercussions that ireland has been experiencing due to its fragile exposure to the us mortgage credit financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns, i considered it important to support this report which will provide vital temporary and one-off assistance to unemployed workers. i also believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for ireland, totalling eur 12 689 838, will be used to this end. this support for the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market in ireland is essential to safeguard the 3,205 redundancies that occurred in 1,482 companies in division 41. of the package of measures proposed by the commission, i would like to highlight two of the most important: career guidance, in that individual counselling sessions will be organised for unemployed workers to give them guidance on the steps to be taken in returning to work, and second-level vocational education and training programmes and income support, which will be designed to provide an increasingly important updating of skills in a context of increasing competitiveness in a more globalised world.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. the fund is designed to support workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. i also hope that the fund will be mobilised swiftly and that it will have the desired effect, so as to alleviate the psychological, social and economic trauma experienced by the workers affected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it will make a useful contribution to reducing ireland's high unemployment rates. following the international financial crisis, demand for labour in the irish construction sector has fallen by around half and there is no prospect of a rapid recovery in this sector. it is therefore important to contribute to the retraining of part of this workforce, and it makes perfect sense to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to this end.
in writing. the irish construction industry has been affected by the crisis, with 4 866 workers in 1 482 firms in the sector losing their jobs. ireland is one of the countries currently experiencing a serious economic and financial crisis, which has its origins in the mortgage credit problems in the united states of america and which has affected irish banks, and which therefore deserves particular attention and solidarity from the other member states, particularly as regards the aid provided to its workers.
in writing. - the low-wage policy in some parts of the world has led to the relocation of many businesses in the eu and the closure of others. this was the case in ireland in the construction sector. this report deals with a proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 12 689 838 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration of irish workers made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis. this application, the 19th to be examined under the eu budget 2011, was submitted by ireland on 9 june 2010 and concerns 4,866 redundancies in 1,482 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 41 in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland. given that this is a specific budgetary instrument, that the amount requested has a legal framework and that it is in line with the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for ireland, i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that economic conditions in that region will improve rapidly.
in writing. the report gives the ep's green light to the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) which is also intended to benefit ireland, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a number of aid schemes for the construction of a new railway line in the irish sea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. once again, although we support the mobilisation of the egf to support workers who have been made redundant, we stress that this is a mere palliative which does not address, as was necessary, the underlying causes of this wave of redundancies. the european union's policies are the root cause of the crisis, as we have been saying for a long time. policies that must be changed, giving priority to growth and development and job creation rather than the irrational criteria of the stability pact.
in writing. the report gives the ep's green light to the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) which is also intended to benefit ireland, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the commission has also decided to initiate proceedings under article 93 (2) of the eec treaty in respect of a number of aid schemes for the construction of a new railway line in the irish sea. it was another case of redundancies which we regretted, but we supported the mobilisation of the egf to support workers who were victims of these redundancies.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to ireland which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 4,866 redundancies (of which 3,205 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 1,482 enterprises in division 41 (building) (3) of nace revision 2 in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland. these two contiguous regions make up the whole of the state of ireland.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 19th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 12 689 838 from the egf for ireland, based on 4 866 redundancies (of which 3 205 are potential recipients of assistance) in 1 482 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 41 (building) (2) in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland during the nine months of the reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. − the application submitted by ireland for egf assistance concerns 4866 redundancies (of which 3205 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) which occurred in 1482 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building), in the nuts ii regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02), during the nine months of the reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. this is a request related to the mortgage credit crisis which has seriously affected irish banks and has also had an impact on the construction sector. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. the egf regulation provides for the egf to be mobilised in situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division of nace level 2, in a region or in two regions adjacent to nuts level ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. with an allocation of eur 500 million for 2011, the commission considers that eur 6 598 378 000 should be made available to ireland to deal with the 4 866 redundancies that occurred in 1 482 companies in the building construction subsector located in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western and southern and eastern. i also believe that all procedures should be speeded up so that workers who have been made redundant can have quick access to vocational training to enable them to re-enter the labour market quickly and effectively.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 387 819 from the egf for ireland to support workers made redundant by 230 firms in division 71 (architectural and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis activities) in the border, midlands and western and southern and eastern regions.
in writing. - given the various repercussions that ireland has been experiencing due to its fragile exposure to the us mortgage credit financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns, i considered it important to support this report which will provide vital temporary and one-off assistance to unemployed workers. i also believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for ireland, totalling eur 1 387 819, will be used to this end. this support for the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market in ireland is key to safeguarding 554 redundancies, which occurred in 230 companies in division 71. of the package of measures proposed by the commission, i would like to highlight two of the most important: vocational guidance, in which individual counselling sessions will be organised for unemployed workers to give them guidance on the steps to be taken in returning to work, and second-level vocational education and training programmes and income support designed to provide an increasingly important upgrade of skills in a context of increasing competitiveness in an increasingly globalised world.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as i did for the report a7-0375/2011, because this irish application also falls within the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would remind you again that this fund is intended to support workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade situation and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. i also hope that the fund will be mobilised swiftly and that it will have the desired effect, so as to alleviate the psychological, social and economic trauma experienced by the workers affected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it will make a useful contribution to reducing ireland's high unemployment rates. following the international financial crisis, of which the crisis in the irish construction sector is a by-product, engineering and architectural activities have fallen very markedly. since there is no prospect of a rapid recovery in the sector, it seems reasonable to me that the eu should promote some re-skilling and reintegration of part of this unemployed workforce.
in writing. - the crisis in the construction sector in ireland, which has affected businesses and workers across the country, could not fail to affect related activities such as engineering and architecture, which are also affected by the international crisis and aggravated by the eurozone crisis. 554 workers expect to benefit from the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i hope that this can be done as soon as possible so that it can have the greatest possible effect on helping the workers and without the workers being particularly penalized by the delay in making the respective funds available.
in writing. − the european union (eu), recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. ireland submitted an application, egf/2010/021 ie/construction 71, on 9 june 2010 in accordance with article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which was supplemented by additional information up to 17 june 2011. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision, the 21st, on the mobilisation of egf 1 387 819 for ireland to support the reintegration of 842 redundancies in 230 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 71 in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland. i am not opposed to its adoption, since it is a proposal which is legally sound and indispensable to meet the fund's financial needs in that part of ireland.
in writing. - another mobilisation of the egf and again for a country with so-called financial assistance programmes ireland. this is the 21st application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 387 819 from the egf, relating to 842 redundancies (of which 554 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) which occurred in 230 enterprises in division 71 (architecture and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis activities), also between 2009 and 2010. this succession of requests to mobilise the fund, which means this succession of mass redundancies, should be enough to ring the bells of the community institutions. a change of policy was needed, giving full force to job creation rather than job destruction, with recessionary policies, as has been happening in several countries and, in a very particular way, in those, like portugal and ireland, which are targeted by the imf-eu programmes.
in writing. - this mobilisation of the egf is also in favour of ireland. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 21st application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 387 819 from the egf for ireland, relating to 842 redundancies (of which 554 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 230 enterprises in division 71 (architecture and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis activities), also between 2009 and 2010. the application was submitted to the commission on 9 june 2010 and supplemented by additional information by 17 june 2011. it was based on the criteria laid down in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which make intervention subject to at least 500 redundancies in a nine-month period in enterprises in the same nace revision 2 division in one or two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to ireland, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 842 redundancies (of which 554 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 230 enterprises in division 71 (architecture and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis activities) of nace revision 2 (3) in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland. these two contiguous regions make up the whole of the state of ireland.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 21st application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 387 819 from the egf for ireland, based on 842 redundancies (of which 554 are potential recipients of assistance) in 230 enterprises in division 71 (architecture and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis activities) of nace revision 2 (3), in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland during the nine months of the reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. − the application submitted by ireland for egf assistance concerns 842 redundancies (of which 554 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) which occurred in 230 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 71 (architecture and engineering activities; technical testing and analysis activities) in the nuts ii regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) during the reference period 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. this is a request related to the mortgage credit crisis which has seriously affected irish banks and has also had an impact on the construction sector. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. the egf regulation provides for the egf to be mobilised in situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, 'at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division of nace level 2, in a region or in two regions adjacent to nuts level ii'. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the report in question because it is sensitive to the 842 redundancies in 230 firms in the sub-sectors of architecture and engineering, testing and technical analysis located in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western and southern and eastern. i believe that the sum of eur 1 387 819 should be quickly allocated to the present application by construction 71, and that the european commission should support workers who were made redundant as a result of the mortgage crisis in the united states in mid-2007 which affected irish exports. i would also like to stress that a simple, fast and efficient procedure should be adopted for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the egf in order to provide individual, specific and temporary support to help workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 21 664 148 from the egf for ireland to support workers made redundant by 1 560 firms in division 43 (specialized construction activities) in the border, midlands and western and southern and eastern regions.
in writing. - given the various repercussions that ireland has been experiencing due to its fragile exposure to the us mortgage credit financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns, i considered it important to support this report which will provide vital temporary and one-off assistance to unemployed workers. i also believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for ireland, totalling eur 21 664 148, will be used to this end. this support for the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market in ireland is key to safeguarding the 2,228 redundancies that occurred in 1,560 companies in division 43. of the package of measures proposed by the commission, i would like to highlight two of the most important: career guidance, in that individual counselling sessions will be organised for unemployed workers to give them guidance on the steps to be taken in returning to work, and second-level vocational education and training programmes and income support designed to provide an increasingly important upgrade of skills in a context of increasing competitiveness in an increasingly globalised world.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as i did with the reports a7-0375/2011 and a7-0377/2011, because this irish application also falls within the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would remind you again that this fund is intended to support workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade situation and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. i also hope that the fund will be mobilised swiftly and that it will have the desired effect, so as to alleviate the psychological, social and economic trauma experienced by the workers concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it will make a useful contribution to reducing ireland's high unemployment rates. following the severe international financial crisis, demand for labour in the irish construction sector has fallen by about half and there is no prospect of a rapid recovery in this sector. it is therefore important to contribute to the retraining of part of its unemployed workforce and the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is justified for this purpose.
in writing. - in the wider context of civil engineering, specialist construction activities have not been spared the economic and financial crisis currently affecting ireland. in fact, 3,382 workers lost their jobs. of these, 2 228 will be eligible for assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i hope that ireland, like portugal, greece and other countries in difficulty, will be able to respond adequately to the problems it is facing and that the egf will be an effective means of helping workers in a particularly difficult period. to that end, the egf should be mobilised in a timely manner and its use should be appropriate and proportionate to the actual unemployment situation.
in writing. - this is another report on the mobilisation of the egf. in favour of ireland. this is the 20th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 21 664 148 from the egf. the application relates to 3 382 redundancies (of which 2 228 are potential recipients of assistance) which occurred in 1 560 enterprises in division 43 (specialised construction activities) during the nine months of the reference period starting on 1 july 2009. it is because of situations like this that tens of thousands of people leave the country every week in search of work elsewhere in the country that has been singled out as a success story among the countries that have been victims of imf-eu programmes. reminiscent of other waves of emigration that happened in other dark periods of irish history. the irish government states that the credit crisis has seriously affected irish banks and has also affected mortgage lending and construction activity in the country. as the crisis took hold, the percentage of workers in the construction sector in ireland fell from 12,25% in the fourth quarter of 2007 to 9,2% in the first quarter of 2009 and 6,25% in the third quarter of 2010.
in writing. - this time in favour of ireland. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 20th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 21 664 148 from the egf for ireland. the application relates to 3 382 redundancies (of which 2 228 are potential recipients of assistance) which occurred in 1 560 enterprises in division 43 (specialised construction activities) during the nine months of the reference period starting on 1 july 2009. the application was submitted to the commission on 9 june 2010 and supplemented by additional information by 17 june 2011. the irish government states that the credit crisis has seriously affected irish banks and has also affected mortgage lending and construction activity in the country. as the crisis took hold, the percentage of workers in the construction sector in ireland fell from 12,25% in the fourth quarter of 2007 to 9,2% in the first quarter of 2009 and 6,25% in the third quarter of 2010.
in writing. − the eu is a space of solidarity in which the european globalisation adjustment fund fits. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf, which is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be provided to ireland, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 3382 redundancies (of which 2228 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 1560 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 43 (specialised construction activities) (3) in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02).
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 20th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 21 664 148 from the egf for ireland, based on 3382 redundancies (of which 2228 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 1560 enterprises in division 43 (specialised construction activities) of nace revision 2 (3), in the nuts 2 regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) in ireland during the nine months of the reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. − the application submitted by ireland for egf assistance relates to 3382 redundancies (of which 2228 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) which occurred in 1560 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 43 (specialised construction activities) in the nuts ii regions of border, midlands and western (ie01) and southern and eastern (ie02) during the nine months of the reference period 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. this is a request related to the mortgage credit crisis which has seriously affected irish banks and has also had an impact on the construction sector. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. the egf regulation provides for the egf to be mobilised in situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division of nace level 2, in a region or in two regions adjacent to nuts level ii. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i fully support this report because it is important to safeguard the social and economic conditions of the 3,382 workers made redundant following the closure of 1,560 enterprises in the specialised construction subsector. since this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions provided for in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, i agree to the mobilisation of eur 21 664 148,00. i would also like to stress that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of construction 43 as this is complementary support from the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 3 643 770 from the egf for austria to support workers made redundant by 706 companies in division 49 (land transport and pipeline transport) in the regions of lower austria and upper austria.
in writing. - in view of the various repercussions austria has been suffering from its fragile exposure to the financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns, i considered it important to support this report which will provide vital temporary and one-off assistance to unemployed workers. i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for austria, totalling eur 3 643 770, will be used to this end. this support for the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market in austria is essential to safeguard 502 redundancies in 706 companies in division 49. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
in writing. - the sharp decline in the freight transport business in austria has increased sharply, throwing 2 338 workers from the regions of niederösterreich and oberösterreich out of work. this reduction is all the more worrying as the relatively central role of that country in the context of the union would suggest that its transport activity could have been spared the economic downturn it is experiencing. however, it turns out that this is not the case and that their workers and their companies have been hit hard by the crisis. i hope that the workers concerned will be able to find new jobs as soon as possible and that the austrian transport industry, like those in the other member states, will be able to prosper again and transport european products to markets within and outside the community.
in writing. - this report, by barbara matera, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (egg/2010/001 at/niedersterreich - obersterreich, austria). on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the 17th application examined under the eu budget 2011, submitted to the commission on 3 january 2011, for the mobilisation of eur 3 643 770, to alleviate the social impact of the redundancies of 2338 workers in 706 enterprises in division 49 of nace rev. 2 (land transport and transport by pipeline or pipeline) in the regions of niedersterreich (at12) and obersterreich (at31) in austria (nuts ii). as the legal requirements have been met, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which i hope will give economic impetus to the region.
in writing. - the applications for mobilising the egf are submitted one after the other. there is hardly a sitting in which this parliament is not called upon to approve the mobilisation of this fund. this was the 17th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 643 770 from the egf for austria. it concerns 2 338 redundancies (of which 502 are potential recipients of assistance) in 706 companies in the field of land transport and pipeline transport in the regions of lower austria and upper austria during the eight-month reference period from 1 february 2010 to 31 october 2010. the application was submitted to the commission on 3 january 2011. it was based on the criteria laid down in the egf regulation, which make intervention conditional on the occurrence of at least 500 redundancies in a nine-month period in one or two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − this was the 17th application to be examined under the 2011 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 643 770 from the egf for austria. it concerns 2 338 redundancies (of which 502 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) which occurred in 706 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline) in the regions of niederösterreich (at12) and oberösterreich (at31) in austria at nuts ii level during the eight-month reference period from 1 february 2010 to 31 october 2010. the application was submitted to the commission on 3 january 2011 and supplemented by additional information by 9 june 2011. it was based on the criteria laid down in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation, which make intervention subject to at least 500 redundancies in a nine-month period in enterprises in the same nace rev. 2 division in one or two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − the eu is a space of solidarity in which the european globalisation adjustment fund fits. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf, which is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to austria, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 2338 redundancies (of which 502 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 706 enterprises in division 49 ('offshore and pipeline transport') of nace rev. 2 in the nuts 2 regions of niederösterreich (at12) and oberösterreich (at31).
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 17th application to be examined under the 2011 budget for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 643 770 from the egf for austria, based on 2338 redundancies (of which 502 are potential recipients of assistance) in 706 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline) in the regions of niederösterreich (at12) and oberösterreich (at31) in austria at nuts ii level during the eight-month reference period from 1 february 2010 to 31 october 2010. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. − the application from austria for egf assistance concerns 2338 redundancies (of which 502 are potential beneficiaries of assistance) in 706 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 49 (land transport and transport by pipeline or gas pipeline) in the nuts ii regions of lower austria and upper austria during the reference period from 1 february 2010 to 31 october 2010. this request relates to the 30-50% decrease in freight business in austria in july 2009 as a result of the crisis and its impact on the consumption and production of goods. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. the egf regulation provides for the egf to be mobilised in situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, at least 500 redundancies occur in a nine-month period, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, in a division of nace level 2, in a region or in two regions adjacent to nuts level ii. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i approve the request from austria to mobilise the egf in respect of 2338 redundancies in 706 enterprises in the nuts 2 regions of lower austria and upper austria. i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 3 643 770 to help the integration of workers in austrian land transport and oil and gas pipeline transport companies. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and the provision of general information through specific employment channels.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 2 918 500 from the egf for greece to support workers made redundant by aldi hellas supermarket holding epe & assoc. e.e. and one of its suppliers thessaloniki logistics s.a.
in writing. - in view of the various repercussions that greece has been suffering from its fragile exposure to the financial crisis and the structural changes in world trade patterns, i considered it important to support this report, which will provide vital temporary and one-off assistance to unemployed workers. i also believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for greece, totalling eur 2 918 500, will be used for this purpose. this support for the reintegration of greek workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market is essential to safeguard 642 redundancies that occurred in 2 companies in the retail sector (supermarket and supplier). of the package of measures proposed by the committee, i would like to highlight two of a peremptory nature, such as the contribution to the creation of businesses, to encourage unemployed workers to set up their own businesses, receiving contributions up to a ceiling of eur 20 000 to cover start-up costs, and career guidance and support for job search through skills and curriculum development sessions, thus facilitating job search techniques which are basic in an increasingly globalised world.
in writing. - as i did with the irish and austrian applications, i am voting in favour of this greek application, which also falls within the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would remind you that this fund is designed to support workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns, to help them reintegrate into the labour market. i also hope that the fund will be mobilised quickly, especially in this case and in view of the difficult situation in greece, so as to alleviate the psychological, social and economic suffering of the workers concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i think it is very important that the european union should support member states in the greatest difficulty in the stoic effort of economic restructuring that they are making. i share the view that the funds in question, from the european globalisation adjustment fund, can make an important contribution to reducing the growth of structural unemployment in greece, thereby significantly alleviating the economic and social crisis in the country.
in writing. - greece is perhaps the most striking example of the strain on citizens, states and businesses in the context of the current eurozone crisis. this european crisis, together with the global crisis affecting markets throughout the western world, has caused serious problems for greek companies and has led to the dismissal of workers from a wide variety of economic sectors in that country. the worrying images of social conflict are multiplying, and it is hard to see a clear or simple way out of all the problems affecting greece. many hopes are placed on the new government of national unity, but the unknowns are far more than the certainties. the greek market is in decline, as shown by the fact that the german supermarket chain aldi abandoned it a few years after it was established in greece, leading to the unemployment of 642 workers. i hope that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will help to alleviate the problems of these workers and enable them to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. − this report concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/004 el/aldi hellas, greece). on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in greece to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. the 18th application, submitted to the commission under the eu budget 2011 on 10 may 2011 for the mobilisation of an amount of eur 2 918 500, is intended to alleviate the social impact of the redundancies of 642 workers in the retail sector (supermarket and supplier) in the regions of central macedonia and attica. i am voting in favour of this proposal, which achieves the objectives which led the eu to set up this fund and i hope that it will contribute to a rapid recovery of the economic fabric of the regions concerned.
in writing. − the application for the mobilisation of the egf is now made in favour of greece, to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the crisis. this was the 18th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 918 500. it concerns 642 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in two retail enterprises (supermarket and supplier) operating in the regions of central macedonia and attica, as well as in other greek regions such as eastern macedonia thrace, western macedonia, epirus, western greece, mainland greece and peloponnese during the five-month reference period from 4 november 2010 to 4 march 2011. of these redundancies, 88 are outside the reference period but relate to the same collective redundancy procedure and the event that triggered the redundancies during the reference period. as in previous situations, despite the support for this mobilization, here is the protest that not enough was done so that it was not necessary.
in writing. - this report is intended to support the mobilisation of the egf in favour of greece. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this application relates to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 918 500 from the egf for greece. it concerns 642 redundancies, all potential recipients of assistance, in two retail enterprises (supermarket and supplier) operating in different regions during the five-month reference period from 4 november 2010 to 4 march 2011. of these redundancies, 88 are outside the reference period but relate to the same collective redundancy procedure and the event that triggered the redundancies during the reference period. the application was submitted to the commission on 10 may 2011 and supplemented by additional information by 22 june 2011. the application was based on the specific intervention criteria set out in article 2 (a) of the egf regulation.
in writing. − the eu is a space of solidarity in which the european globalisation adjustment fund fits. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf, which is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to greece which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 642 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, which occurred in two retail enterprises (supermarket and supplier) operating in the regions of central macedonia and attica, where the largest number of aldi stores were located; chain which also recorded redundancies in other regions of greece, namely in eastern macedonia thrace, western macedonia, epirus, western greece, sterea ellada and peloponnese.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 22 september 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the 18th application to be examined under the 2011 budget concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 918 500 from the egf for greece, based on 642 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in two retail enterprises (supermarket and supplier) active in the regions of central macedonia and attica, as well as in other greek regions such as eastern macedonia thrace, western macedonia, epirus, western greece, mainland greece and peloponnese during the five-month reference period from 4 november 2010 to 4 march 2011. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. - the application submitted by greece for egf assistance concerns 642 redundancies in two retail businesses (supermarket and supplier). this request relates to the devastating consequences of the economic and financial crisis for the greek economy, in particular the reduction in private consumption. according to the commission's assessment, this application fulfils all the eligibility criteria defined by law. under the egf regulation, the egf is to be mobilised in situations such as this one where, as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis, at least 500 redundancies occur in a four-month period in an undertaking in a member state, including workers made redundant by suppliers or downstream producers. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, in the hope that assistance for workers made redundant can be provided quickly and efficiently.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. greece has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 642 redundancies in the enterprise aldi hellas supermarket holding epe & assoc. e.e. and one of its suppliers, thessaloniki logistics s.a., both in the regions of central macedonia, eastern macedonia and attica. the amount of eur 2 918 500 is intended to finance measures to provide professional assistance to individual workers and is not used to restructure companies or to replace measures for which they are solely responsible under national legislation or collective agreements. i believe that the egf should finance active measures for reintegration into the labour market, enabling the acquisition of new skills and their adaptation to the new reality of work.
in writing. - i approve this report as it presents an application which fulfils all the criteria for mobilising the fund in question. at this difficult time, europe must be more than ever a union of solidarity.
in writing. - i approve this report. i welcome the fact that the acp has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in north-south cooperation. however, more attention should be paid to the concrete results on the ground, to the work of the acp-eu jpa and to the consistency between its resolutions and those of the european parliament.
in writing. − the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) represents a global partnership, unique in the world, which has been developing at both institutional and content level and which now encompasses areas such as aid, economic cooperation, human rights, trade relations between the eu and the six acp regions and political dialogue. in my view, this is the richness that makes acp-eu cooperation a unique model for this kind of development partnership. i therefore welcome the fact that the ppp continued to provide a framework for an open and in-depth dialogue between the eu and the acp countries in 2010, which culminated in two meetings last year (tenerife and kinshasa), while i regret the absence of the eu council at the latter. i stress the importance of the ppp to keep up pressure on eu member states to take action to meet their commitments to achieve the millennium development goals, to involve national parliaments more closely in national and regional strategy papers and in the implementation of the edf, and to take action to tackle poverty, climate change and strict respect for all aspects of human rights.
in writing. − the acp-eu parliamentary assembly is an important forum for debate, reflection and decision-making between parliamentarians from the two regions who, in the framework of the cotonou agreement, can strengthen relations and better understand each other's realities, as well as promote the exchange of experience and the adoption of best practices. in this context, the involvement of national parliaments and their public opinion is crucial if what is decided is to have a concrete impact on the lives of citizens and can positively influence local political debate. i regret that the portuguese language, spoken by no less than seven countries in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, has not yet been properly recognised for its importance and consequently has not been granted the same facilities for translation and interpretation and timely access to documents as english and french. this discrimination is unacceptable and has persisted on the basis of unconvincing budgetary arguments. the damage they cause to the people of portuguese-speaking countries is infinitely greater than any gains that such obstinacy has allowed.
in writing. - since its inception, the european union has enjoyed privileged relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries in the field of development cooperation, particularly at political, economic and social levels. relations between the eu and the acp countries are currently governed by the cotonou agreement signed in 2000. this report, by filip kaczmarek, takes stock of the activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which met twice in 2010, in tenerife (spain) and kinshasa (people's republic of congo), and adopted nine resolutions and a declaration on the second revision of the cotunu agreement. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has a decisive role to play in strengthening the north-south dialogue, and it is therefore essential that the european parliament should look at how it works, so that we can achieve our objectives, both as regards the reconstruction of post-conflict countries and the functioning of democracy, especially in countries receiving international aid. i therefore vote in favour of this report, welcome the measures referred to and welcome the commission's intention to cooperate in the implementation of the cotonou partnership agreement.
in writing. − this report takes stock of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) throughout 2010. in this report, some of the most positive aspects of the functioning of this house are identified, as well as its virtues. we also support the call for greater attention to be paid to the work of the ppp and the results achieved. the active role of acp national parliaments is also of central importance. however, we felt that some of the issues raised needed further consideration. we did so during the debate in the plenary on such important issues as the economic partnership agreements, land grabbing and the burden of external debt and its servicing. we also disagree with some of the points in the resolution, for example when it calls for the european parliament's (ep) resolutions to be consistent with those of the app. in our opinion, one of the riches of the app lies precisely in the fact that it is often at odds with the dominant positions in the ep on many issues. this helps to highlight (and to expose) the limitations and contradictions (and often the ulterior motives!) of the european union's cooperation and development policy.
in writing. - this report analyses the activities of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. as a non-member of this house, i welcome this information, although i do not agree with all the information contained therein. we are concerned about the conclusion of the so-called economic partnership agreements and the european commission's insistence on free trade. the rapporteur rightly says that more attention should be paid to the results of the work of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. and from this work it is possible to see the repeated resistance - fair, legitimate and entirely understandable - that the acp countries have shown to the epas. as they are designed, they may be very profitable for some european multinationals, but they will be disastrous for these countries. finally, a reference to the economic and financial crisis and its effects on the acp countries, which are calling for the abolition of this enormous burden. it is a debt that has been paid off many times and yet is growing. to put an end once and for all to an unacceptable plundering of wealth and to help these countries in an effective way to find a sovereign and independent path of development and social progress, it is urgent to cancel this debt.
in writing. − the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) has been gaining in importance within the framework of the global partnerships, as they have been developing in various fields, notably at institutional and content level, and now encompass matters such as aid, economic cooperation, human rights, trade relations between the eu and the six acp regions and political dialogue. it is this diversity of positions that makes acp-eu cooperation a unique model in this kind of development partnership. it is, however, important that the jpa maintains pressure on eu member states to take action to deliver on the commitments they have made to the millennium development goals, namely greater involvement of national parliaments in national and regional strategy papers and edf implementation, as well as measures to combat poverty and climate change and to ensure strict respect for human rights in all aspects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2010. i would like to stress in this report the positive vote that parliament gives to the increasingly parliamentary nature and therefore the policy of the joint parliamentary assembly. the increasingly active role of the members of the jpa and the improved quality of its debates should also be highlighted, which has helped to ensure the vital importance of the jpa for the acp-eu partnership.
in writing. − the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly met twice in 2010, in tenerife and in kinshasa. the three standing committees met four times: the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which was published in the official journal of the european communities on 1 january. the work carried out included the adoption of resolutions on haiti, south sudan, the results of the elections in côte d'ivoire and the situation in the sara-sabel region. fact-finding and election observation missions were also organised. the evaluation of the work of 2010 shows that the app now plays a valuable role in south-north relations, providing a good forum for dialogue between the countries of the two hemispheres.
in writing. − during 2010, the joint parliamentary assembly met twice: from 6 to 9 june in tenerife, spain, and from 30 november to 3 december in kinshasa, democratic republic of congo. these meetings resulted in nine resolutions and a declaration on the second revision of the cotonou partnership agreement. in addition to these meetings, a regional meeting was also held in mahé, seychelles. in 2010, the importance of cooperation and partnership between the european union and the acp countries was reaffirmed in order to promote an in-depth, open and democratic dialogue on the cotonou agreements and on the economic partnership agreements with the six acp regions. i stress the importance of implementing the regional and national strategy papers for cooperation with the european union until 2013 and i therefore call on the joint parliamentary assembly to make progress towards contributing to the objectives of the millennium development goals, stressing the crucial importance of adopting clear, effective and transparent legislation within the framework of the commitments undertaken.
in writing. - i approve this report, as a solid basis for the implementation of the european heritage label must be ensured. this initiative will be of fundamental importance for the promotion of the history of our continent and our culture, as well as an important instrument for future generations, even from an educational point of view. i should like to stress the natural wealth of the outermost regions, such as the azores, which will certainly be included in the list of sites to be awarded this label.
in writing. - the mark of european heritage is spread over the whole of the area which has been successively influenced by greek, roman and judeo-christian influences, decomposed in its jewish and christian, catholic, orthodox and protestant sensibilities and, in some cases, also touched by arab and ottoman influence. the european brand is precisely the built and unbuilt heritage that marks the diversity of civilizations which, like layers of the same ground, underlie what the cultures of the member states are today. in order to speak of a european trademark with a property, it will be necessary not to overlook the role of each state in the formation and formatting of that same trademark and to resist the temptation to seek only references which are consensual, but which overlook the quintessential multicultural reality which permeates all of the so-called high european culture. i welcome the decision to value europe's heritage. i hope that this appreciation of europe's heritage will not be discriminatory and that it will not seek to rewrite history.
in writing. - this report, by chrysoula paliadeli, is a recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council to develop eu action on the european heritage label. the commission proposal, presented on 9 march 2010, aimed to strengthen the sense of belonging to the european union among european citizens by enhancing their history, heritage and intercultural dialogue. in fact, we're part of the same continent and share a common history. so this brand is something we should celebrate and be proud of in these times of economic recession. this mark is an essential achievement of european unity and a way of making young europeans feel proud to belong to the old continent. i welcome this initiative, which promotes our heritage and culture through an educational dimension, and which is another important step towards overcoming the financial crisis by boosting the growth of european tourism in its cultural dimension, and i hope that it will be a great success throughout europe.
in writing. - the position we expressed at the first reading of this report is maintained at the second reading. the warnings issued then are now being reiterated by us. there is no such thing as a single european cultural heritage. culture, like all historical phenomena, is not made up of any homogeneous and common identity. on the contrary, it is an expression of antagonisms, conflicts and contexts of cultural domination. we also question the meaning of the designation of european union heritage, which is based on the mere location of the heritage elements in question, when we know that europe's heritage is indebted to many cultures and could be claimed equally by the islamic world, the mediterranean cultures or the cultures of the peoples subject to european colonialism. the rapporteur hopes that by building a symbolic cultural dimension in the eu, the feeling of belonging to the european union will be strengthened by european citizens. but it ignores the growing clash between the interests and legitimate aspirations of the citizens of this eu. it ignores the terrible consequences of eu policies in many areas, including culture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. the report also calls for the creation of a european cultural area, which would be a key element in the development of the european union. well, the truth is, there are different cultures. we are talking specifically about the imf-eu programmes, so-called financial assistance programmes, which are in fact genuine programmes of aggression against democratic values, social and labour rights and also culture. it is the estate left to abandonment; are the poverty budgets; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the point is to develop efforts to legitimize an integration whose orientation is increasingly contrary to the interests and legitimate aspirations of citizens, starting with the creation of a symbolic cultural dimension. this initiative is thus inseparable from the intense ideological struggle naturally inherent in the very lively social struggle which is raging throughout the eu. but heritage is a sensitive domain, because it is inseparable from history. we hope that this is not another door that opens to the disturbing and degrading processes of rewriting history that we have seen in recent years in various countries.
in writing. - the european heritage brand is diverse, encompassing greek, roman and judeo-christian influences and, in some cases, the arab and ottoman brand. the european brand represents the heritage that encompasses all the different cultures of the member states in their most varied forms. the value of europe's heritage is of the utmost importance.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to adopt the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union action on the european heritage label. i defended the merits of this project when the european parliament voted on the decision at first reading. having noted that the amendments proposed by the council incorporated, in whole or in part, the vast majority of the amendments tabled by the european parliament at first reading, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission's initiative to create the european heritage label aims to strengthen european identity by distinguishing certain sites for their significance in the conception of a common cultural space. the council's first reading position, which accepted most of the amendments proposed by the ep, was therefore submitted to parliament for its consideration.
in writing. - the withdrawal of citizens from the european project, as well as nationalist and populist demonstrations, show that action is needed at european level to create identity links with european integration. the idea of a european identity is complementary to the national identities of the 27 member states. the commission's action aims to identify landmarks which are part of the history of european integration. this initiative, which is voluntary and undertaken at the request of the european parliament, is to take place every two years, with the member states pre-selecting the sites, and the final selection being made at european level. i am voting in favour of this report and i support the idea that the european parliament should take an active part in the selection process. i support such initiatives, which aim to bring the european institutions closer to the european citizens, especially in a time of growing scepticism and total disbelief.
in writing. - i support this report, as the reform of the first railway package is of crucial importance, in particular on issues such as the financing of railway infrastructure, the services associated with these structures, the role of the bodies regulating road transport services and the independence of infrastructure management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the single european railway area because it contains proposals to clarify and improve legislation in the field of rail transport, so as to make it more attractive as a means of transport for passengers and goods and thus contribute to the development of more sustainable transport systems in the eu.
in writing. - the decline of rail transport has been evident in some member states. this raises fears about its viability and encourages reflection on how to establish a single european railway area that can reverse this declining trend and promote a means of transport for people and goods that is faster, safer and less polluting than those that use fossil fuels. member states should closely monitor the implementation of this european railway area and promote the use of this means of transport internally, as well as enhance connectivity between railway lines in the various member states. a europe with a single railway area will tend to be more environmentally friendly and better supplied with goods and services.
in writing. - in recent years, with the exception of high-speed lines in some eu countries, all other rail projects have been relegated to the background in terms of investment, which has resulted in a significant increase in road traffic and improvement of the respective routes. this report, by debora serracchiani, focuses on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a single european railway area. we all know the discomfort of arriving at a border and having to change trains because the track is different. in fact, few trains cross borders. this is a market for transport, both of passengers and goods, with enormous growth potential, as it is cheaper and faster than road transport and has major environmental advantages. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report, i welcome the measures proposed to remove the administrative barriers which impede the development of this market at european level, and i hope that very soon we will be able to enjoy a single railway area within the eu.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. once again, the false idea is being insisted upon (which experience in several countries has been flatly refuting) that more markets and competition lead to better services. this directive will have serious consequences for the population, which will have fewer, poorer and more expensive services; for workers, with the intensification of the exploitation of the labour force at european level; for security, which is dangerously compromised, subjected to free competition; and for national interests, relegated to the background in a strategic sector, overridden by the interests of multinationals. there are particularly serious, even disturbing, aspects of the proposal presented today. for example, that safety criteria in rail transport are subject to the rules of competition in the single market. this is the result of the obligation on the national safety authorities to submit to the opinion of a regulatory body which assesses the conformity of the safety rules laid down with the competition rules. it is also a statement of the values and principles which inspire the majority in this parliament.
in writing. the reform of the railway package, approved by a majority of meps including portuguese psd, ps, cds meps , poses a serious threat to national public rail services, making it difficult to provide a quality public transport service with safety and affordability for the population. this directive will deepen the serious consequences for people, for workers in the sector and for national economies, which have resulted from the liberalization and privatization of the railway sector, carried out in several countries, insisting on the false idea (which experience has been refuting) that more market and competition lead to better services. the most serious aspects of this directive include: the total separation of infrastructure management and railway operations, which liberalises the railway sector, privatising the areas that generate profit and leaving to the state the areas where large amounts of funding are needed; the construction and maintenance of infrastructure. the proposed fragmentation is tailored to the multinationals in the sector, which are taking over rail transport and colonizing the markets for associated services in several countries. the example of the german multinational db, which controls more than 60% of the freight sector (where liberalisation first advanced) at european level, is a good illustration of this.
in writing. - i voted against this report because it aims to further privatisation of rail services. the separation of related activities advocated in the report invariably leads to the transfer of revenue-generating activities to the private sector and the retention in the public sector of loss-making activities. the european rail network needs coordination, integration and investment if it is to become the most efficient medium- and long-distance freight transport mode again. this report will not allow that future, and i have therefore voted against it.
in writing. − unfortunately, rail transport has been experiencing a decline in use in some member states. this should be of concern to us, because it is a means of transporting people and goods that is fast, safe and less polluting than those that use fossil fuels. the establishment of a single european railway area can therefore help to reverse this trend. a europe with a single railway area will tend to be more environmentally friendly and better supplied with goods and services.
in writing. − the first railway package adopted in 2001 was the first serious attempt to end the decline of rail transport and to reform the european regulatory framework. the aim was to ensure the integration of the sector and to enhance its attractiveness compared to other modes of transport. the aim of this report is to present a new framework for increasing the modal share of the railway sector by profoundly reviewing the legislation. as the current system has already shown its shortcomings, the rules will have to be strengthened and harmonised and new elements added to make rail more attractive as a mode of transport for both passengers and goods. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − despite its potential as an environmentally sustainable means of transport, rail has not succeeded in establishing itself as the preferred means of transport for people and goods. in the latter field, between 1996 and 2008, they lost market share to road transport. policies are therefore needed to revitalise these modes of transport, to reduce the obstacles to international transport, where artificial barriers to free movement still exist, and to encourage new entrants to the market. to this end, it is necessary to separate the entities which are engaged in the railway structures of the service operating companies, so that all are on an equal footing, avoiding the abuse of a dominant position by the operators with the greatest economic weight. i voted in favour of this reform of the regulatory framework for the railway sector, which will contribute to the creation of a genuine european transport network with significant advantages in terms of quality of service, job creation, safety and environmental sustainability.
in writing. − the creation of a single european railway area, as expressed in the objectives of the 2011 transport white paper, requires harmonisation of national regulations, which will greatly increase the competitiveness of this sector in relation to other modes of transport. the implementation of the first railway package did not achieve the objectives proposed and the lack of clarity of the text itself gave rise to different interpretations and, consequently, to infringement proceedings against the member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the report focuses on the liberalisation of the national passenger market, the strengthening of the independence and powers of national regulatory bodies, the internalisation of external costs, financing issues, working conditions and safety rules. the creation of a european regulatory body will be the next step. furthermore, the commission will present, by the end of 2012, two legislative proposals on the vertical separation of the infrastructure manager from the service provider and the opening up of the railway market to make it more transparent, fair and non-discriminatory, avoiding distortions in the sector.
in writing. − i approve this resolution, reinforcing the message that it calls on the european union to confirm publicly and unequivocally its strong commitment to the kyoto protocol and to take all necessary measures to avoid any change to the commitment periods under the kyoto protocol. i therefore support the call for the european union to make an open declaration before durban that it is prepared to continue with the second commitment period under the kyoto protocol. maintaining measures to combat global warming is important for future generations and it is essential to implement environmentally sustainable policies, as is the case in the azores, a world example in areas such as the use of renewable energy.
in writing. − it is important that the european union maintains its leading role in the fight against climate change. the durban conference should result in concrete proposals for agreement on the second period of the kyoto protocol and on negotiations under the united nations convention on climate change. at the level of the convention negotiations, the cancún agreement on technology transfer, capacity building and forests must be implemented and the cdm for the least developed countries must be redesigned. for the second period of compliance with the kyoto protocol, europe must agree on the following conditions: the existence of a timetable for a legally binding agreement that includes the largest economies, a new separation between industrialized and developing countries, and the adoption of a sectoral approach for energy-intensive industrial sectors as a solution to carbon leakage.
in writing. - i support this resolution in its entirety. i would like to stress two points which i consider to be of the greatest importance for the durban conference. i agree with the urgency that the eu attaches to a new agreement between member states for a post-2012 protocol. it is essential to secure a comprehensive, international, fair, ambitious and legally binding agreement in order to secure the targets of reducing emissions (by 26%) by 2020 on the basis of 1990 levels and limiting the increase in the global average temperature beyond 2°c. equally important is a restructuring of the financial architecture of the protocol, the current one providing only 5% of what is estimated to be the capital needed by developing countries in the coming decades. otherwise we may find an unwanted reluctance on their part to join a new agreement. the eu therefore needs to press and pressure member states to create new mechanisms that make new and additional funds available, such as a financial transactions tax, a green tax, a shipping/air transport tax, among others. i admit that this requires rethinking the whole tax package so as not to place an undue burden on people and businesses in times of recession.
in writing. − it is essential that the eu develops a strategy to tackle climate change, making a serious commitment to sustainable development, seeking to reduce its carbon emissions, without jeopardising productive activities, particularly industries. any policy on climate change, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, by putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive. the focus should be on more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and cleaner technologies to maintain european competitiveness and enable job creation in a green growth environment.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's action in the field of climate change. the natural disasters of 2011 and the melting of the ice caps prove the need for us to be very attentive to these situations and to take action at the global level. because it is people who have to respond to climate change and not the other way around, we have to limit the average temperature increase to two degrees and make the year 2012 the peak year for greenhouse gases. it is not enough to adopt good measures, they must be implemented! i therefore welcome the significant presence of eu representatives at this conference to give effect to the recommendations now adopted and welcome the fact that the eu is committed to complying with the kyoto protocol and to reducing co2 emissions to levels above the 20% target for 2020.
in writing. - this resolution, like its predecessors (cop-15 and cop-16), contains positive aspects. in general terms, the importance of reducing ghg emissions and the need to meet the targets set in the un framework are highlighted. but, like the previous ones, this resolution also fails to define the means to achieve these goals and to analyse why, conference after conference, the goals are not met: the solution to this environmental problem will not be found within the framework of the irrational economic and social system that has generated it. the failure to recognise and debate this premise, the insistence on the capitalist approach to this problem, of which market instruments such as carbon trading are a prominent feature, does not allow for optimism about the effective resolution of the problem. the problem is, moreover, expressed in far more diverse and complex terms than those used in the resolution concerning the progressive and inexorable shortage of raw materials on which many areas of activity in contemporary societies depend to a very large extent. moreover, what is profoundly heterogeneous (the different member states) in terms of their specific situation, in the framework of the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, continues to be regarded as a homogeneous entity (the eu).
in writing. - we know that the depletion of natural resources at a rate that is absolutely disproportionate to the needs of the world's population, air and water pollution, the effects of war, the destruction of forests and intensive agriculture are all concrete effects of industrial activity and factors that reduce the quality of life of the general population. even more serious is the distribution of costs and benefits effected by capitalism, where the territories most affected by the intensive exploitation of nature are precisely those occupied by the most impoverished populations and most deprived of the enjoyment of the benefits of the development of technology and industrial production. the report has positive aspects in that it stresses the importance of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the need to meet the targets set. however, it fails to analyse the essential reasons why, conference after conference, these are not being met. the solution to the environmental problem will not be found within the framework of the irrational economic and social system that has created it. the failure to recognise and debate this premise, the insistence on a capitalist approach to this problem, of which market instruments such as carbon trading are a prominent feature, does not allow for optimism in solving the environmental problem.
in writing. the resolution sets as a general objective a legally binding international agreement consistent with the principle of common but differentiated responsibility. the resolution states that, irrespective of the outcome of international negotiations, it is in the eu's interest to set a climate protection target of more than 20%, as this would have the effect of simultaneously creating green jobs, growth and security. aiming for a reduction in the eu that is higher than the eu's own target is of the utmost importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the establishment of a green climate fund to support the transition to low-carbon and climate-resilient development in developing countries is also called for. i also welcome the position to include aviation and transport in the durban agreement. for the reasons stated, i voted in favour. i must, however, make clear my opposition to carbon trading mechanisms and i regret that intellectual property rights are given more weight than the fight against climate change.
in writing. − the european parliament must be firm in its defence of the kyoto protocol and the reduction of co2 emissions in the period after 2012. the adoption of this resolution at the climate change conference in durban, south africa, from 28 november to 9 december, brings with it greater responsibilities for the eu to go further in reducing co2 by 20% by 2020, which could help to stimulate the european economy. concrete measures are needed to close the gigatonnes gap (i.e. the difference) between current levels of ambition and the levels required to keep global warming below 2°c.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the durban climate change conference (cop 17), which sets out the european parliament's concerns and calls on the parties to ensure that a fair, ambitious and legally binding post-2012 comprehensive international agreement is reached, based on the international system based on the rules of the kyoto protocol, consistent with the 2°c target and the peak of national and global greenhouse gas emissions in the shortest possible time.
in writing. − the next conference on climate change, to be held in durban from 28 november to 9 december 2011 (17th conference of the parties), is another opportunity to adopt a new political strategy to address the climate change facing the planet. in this context, there are a number of points which the european union must consider to be unassailable: to take the lead in adopting measures to ensure the environmental sustainability of the economy, to push for a decision-making process based on respect for the principle of majority voting, to strengthen support for research into environmentally less polluting technologies and to support the resulting structural adjustment of the economy. i voted in favour of this guideline because i agree with it.
in writing. − in 2009, the european commission published the white paper entitled 'climate change adaptation: towards a european framework for action' aimed at reducing the european union's vulnerability to the impact of climate change, presenting an overall strategy, concrete objectives and metrics, as well as potential funding instruments. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i consider it important to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to take measures to deal with the impacts of climate change. i believe it is urgent that the european union sets itself more ambitious targets than the 20% reduction set for 2020 and introduces new measures to reduce emissions from aviation and shipping, which were not included in the kyoto protocol. finally, i believe that the european institutions must undertake a global strategy to reduce land and sea temperatures, to change the volume and patterns of precipitation, to control the rise in the average sea level and to avoid the risks of coastal erosion and natural disasters associated with weather phenomena.
in writing. - i approve this report. firstly, i welcome the renewed commitment by the member states to honour their commitments to provide 0.7% of their gni in aid. i note, however, that in 2010 the european union fell short of its own target for oda for that year by some eur 15 billion. on the other hand, i agree with the council that oda alone will not be enough to eradicate poverty globally. the european union's development policy should aim at removing structural obstacles to the objective of poverty eradication and be consistent across the various policy areas, such as agriculture, trade, investment, tax havens, access to raw materials or climate change. without a reinforced level of commitment, it will not be easy to achieve the millennium development goals in 2015, particularly the one that calls for the eradication of extreme poverty.
in writing. − the eu and its member states are by far the world's largest donors of official development assistance, despite the increasing pressure on national budgets as a result of the financial and economic crisis affecting the world. however, i share the rapporteur's concerns that in the past year eu member states have only contributed 0.43% of their gni to official development assistance (oda), despite the commitment to collectively devote 0.7% of their gni to oda by 2015 and an intermediate target of 0.56% in 2010. not only for the eu's credibility, but also for the concrete situation of the poorest (particularly hard as a result of the economic and financial crisis for which they are not responsible), it is urgent that the eu fulfils its development commitments and, instead of reducing its development aid budgets, takes urgent action to secure the commitments made, looks at new innovative financing mechanisms and is able to ensure greater coherence between the union's trade and development policies.
in writing. the european union's commitment to development is one of the main hallmarks of an integration process which is not to be closed in on itself. despite the difficulties experienced by several member states, which have led to a reduction in the aid provided by several of them, i would like the union to continue its efforts to cooperate with the people and the states which have the least. however, i also believe that this aid should be subject to greater transparency and that it should be channelled to the populations who really need it and scrutinized, not only by the donors but also by the public and the parliaments of the countries receiving aid. i disagree with the rapporteur on the possibility of introducing a financial transaction tax to finance member states and boost development aid. i believe that the generalization of this measure needs further study and that its potential negative consequences warrant particular caution in its adoption.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution on the european union's responsibility for financing development follows the questions with oral questions to the council and the commission put by mrs michèle striffler, pursuant to rule 115 of the rules of procedure, on behalf of the committee on development. the current global economic and financial crisis is particularly damaging to developing countries, and the eu needs to meet the millennium development goals of devoting 0.7% of gross national income to helping the poorest countries by 2015. official development assistance plays a key role in the survival of many peoples, with the eu's contribution accounting for more than half of total aid. the eu must therefore not only ensure that this aid is implemented in a transparent and effective manner, taking account of the real needs of these countries, but also increase the resources available in the next financial framework. given that the credibility of the eu cannot be called into question, i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, knowing that with the measures adopted, the eu will fulfil its promises to support developing countries under the mdgs.
in writing. − the eu and its member states are the world's largest donors of official development assistance, despite the budgetary constraints member states are subject to as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. despite all the difficulties, the eu needs to deliver on its development commitments and, instead of reducing its development aid budgets, take urgent action to secure the commitments it has made, look at new innovative financing mechanisms and be able to ensure greater coherence between the union's trade and development policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution of 16 november 2011 on the report on eu accountability for development finance. in this resolution, parliament welcomes the commission communication on the abovementioned report as a very useful exercise in transparency and peer review. it also welcomes the fact that the report calls on european union donors to intensify political dialogue on development cooperation with emerging economies and also encourages member states to support triangular and south-south development cooperation initiatives, considering that there is no longer any justification for aid in the form of grants to states with abundant monetary reserves.
in writing. − the european union is the world's leading actor in the context of development aid. the truth is, however, that the recent economic and financial turmoil has created some difficulties in this area. the crisis has led to a retreat in the action of states, which are less willing to release funds for development aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. regardless of the funds that are freed up, it is equally important that there is an effort to optimise the amounts granted for aid (ineffective public aid amounts to a total of eur 6 billion per year). i voted in favour of development aid, which i regard as one of the pillars of the eu's external action.
in writing. − overall, the eu and its member states are the world's largest donors of official development assistance (oda), despite the economic and social crisis facing countries. however, in the past year, the member states and the union have not fulfilled their commitments under the millennium development goals. that is why we must do more and better. i welcome the commitment of the member states to provide 0.7% of their gni in aid from 2015 onwards, at a time of social upheaval in european societies themselves. however, we must go beyond direct funding. we must commit ourselves to coherent policies in the fields of agriculture, trade, investment, access to raw materials and the fight against climate change, with development prospects for the world's poorest countries. in addition, we must establish other sources of financing, in particular through the eib, microfinance and a financial transaction tax, part of which is intended for development aid. private sector support for development should also be strengthened, as solidarity with the poorest should not be achieved through public policies alone. we must at the same time ask the receiving countries for accountability and transparency.
in writing. − i welcome this report, drawing particular attention to the need for smaller cinemas, independent cinemas and artistic houses in the eu to be adequately supported by the ongoing digitisation process.
in writing. - european cinema is facing one of its greatest challenges today: responding to the demands of modern technologies. it is impossible to dissociate the audiovisual sector from the new challenges of the digital age, which have repercussions on the production, distribution and accessibility of european cinema. the commission notes that the digital cinema sector is not a single sector, but is rather a group of sectors that are closely linked to each other. i therefore consider it important that the member states and the structural funds provide adequate support for the digitisation of the cinema. it should not be forgotten that european cinema, in addition to the economic dynamism it generates, plays a fundamental role at cultural and social level and in the development of european cultural identity. however, the diversity of programming and cultural infrastructure across the eu should be addressed and preserved, not leading to the closure of small theatres and art cinemas in favour of multiplexes. innovation should be at the service of cultural heritage and not the other way around!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age, as i believe that adequate funding should be made available to support the transition to digital technology, especially in small cinemas. it is important to ensure that european cinema is globally competitive, but retains its identity and continues to promote cultural and linguistic diversity.
in writing. - european cinema, as the report points out, has two very important dimensions: on the one hand, it represents the expression of european culture and, on the other, it is a creative industry with enormous economic potential. this dual dimension makes investment in european cinema and its adaptation to the digital age essential, both from a cultural and an economic perspective. the numbers are staggering. in 2010, european film production was 1,203 films, compared with 754 in the united states. however, we still immediately associate the word cinema with hollywood, even though most film production today is done outside the united states. today we award the lux prize, created precisely to support european cinema, to a french film that speaks of fidelity, solidarity and morality. i hope that this prize will serve to raise awareness, encourage the european film industry to continue to produce good cinema and encourage viewers to choose good european productions.
in writing. − cultural industries make a significant contribution to local development by making regions more attractive and promoting sustainable tourism and generating new job opportunities. european citizens are among the largest consumers of cultural products, and the film industry deserves our full attention. not only because of its cultural dimension - playing a key role in protecting, promoting and disseminating local and regional cultural identities - but also because of its economic added value. at a time of technological change, when we are witnessing the transition of cinema from its analogue phase to the digital age, it is crucial that the eu does not miss this train and knows how to seize the new opportunities in order to attract new audiences and connect all european regions. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report by piotr borys on european cinema in the digital age on the day when the european parliament awarded the lux prize to a film that speaks of european values.
in writing. - this report addresses european cinema in the digital age and the question of the european film industry. the role of cinema, from the social, cultural and economic point of view, is indeed of great importance. however, this modernisation of european cinema raises some concerns, particularly in relation to the underlying costs. this is particularly relevant in the case of the existence of several small and independent cinemas which are already facing serious difficulties in surviving today, due to lack of support, the constant cuts in culture and the deterioration of the living standards of the general population. but when we highlight the importance of cinema and support for this activity, we cannot help but point out the responsibility of the budgetary policies imposed by the eu, which reduce support for artistic creation in various fields, and of course also in cinema, to poverty, which has implications for the living conditions of countless workers in the performing arts throughout europe. the words symbolically left in the plenary by the director of the lux prize winning film today, addressed to an eu too market-oriented and not enough people-oriented, should be taken very seriously.
in writing. - european cinema in the digital age and the question of the european film industry. the role of cinema, from the social, cultural and economic point of view, is indeed of great importance. however, this modernisation of european cinema raises some concerns, particularly in relation to the underlying costs. this is particularly relevant in the case of the existence of several small and independent cinemas which are already facing serious difficulties in surviving today, due to lack of support, the constant cuts in culture and the deterioration of the living standards of the general population. but when we highlight the importance of cinema and support for this activity, we cannot help but point out the responsibility of the budgetary policies imposed by the eu, which reduce support for artistic creation in various fields, and of course also in cinema, to poverty, which has implications for the living conditions of countless workers in the performing arts throughout europe. the words symbolically left in the plenary by the director of the lux prize winning film today, addressed to an eu too market-oriented and not enough people-oriented, should be taken very seriously.
in writing. - european cinema is facing its greatest challenge ever: to meet the demands of modern technology. the future of cinema is inextricably linked to the arrival of the digital age. modern technologies are transforming the audiovisual sector, creating challenges and opportunities in the production, distribution and accessibility of european cinema, as well as some risks inherent in the transition from analogue to digital systems. participation in this process should be the responsibility not only of the public sector but also of the private sector. european cinema has enormous potential. according to the european audiovisual observatory, there are some 30 000 cinemas in the european union. these are mostly small cinemas with only one or two screening rooms. in recent years, we have seen the acceleration of the process of digitisation of cinemas as a result of the production of digital films, mainly from the united states, as well as the growing public demand for films produced using 3d technology. it is expected that in the near future most cinemas will have to switch to digital technology and that copies of films will no longer be available on 35 mm film.
in writing. - according to the european audiovisual observatory, there are some 30 000 cinemas in the european union. these are mostly small cinemas with only one or two screening rooms. in recent years, we have seen the acceleration of the process of digitisation of cinemas as a result of the production of digital films, mainly from the united states, as well as the growing public demand for films produced using 3d technology. these figures allow us to conclude that european cinema has great potential. the promotion of cinema is also the promotion of intercultural dialogue and multilingualism. the european parliament, through the lux film prize and the future lux film festival, is also contributing to these aspirations. the added value of cultural initiatives such as the one promoted by the european parliament is that they open up debates on topics that are worth discussing and that are important to the citizens of the member states. the films shown address important european values, whose strength comes from the fact that they are expressed in diversity. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - cinema is one of the main ways of sharing and disseminating cultural values. although 1203 films were produced in europe in 2010, compared with 754 in the united states, european cinema accounts for only 27% of ticket sales. on the other hand, demand for cinema is higher in western countries than in eastern ones. in addition to these obstacles, technological developments have led to the abrupt transition from analogue to digital technology, raising new difficulties for the dissemination of european cinema. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - european cinema, in all its diversity and richness, is a vehicle for promoting european identity and, at the same time, european industry. for these two reasons, we must give our full support to the production of european-branded films. this report focuses on the challenge faced by producers and cinema owners in the transition from analogue to digital. these additional and high costs will have dire consequences for the film industry. it thus calls for participation not only of the public sector but, essentially, of the private sector. greater integration within the eu is needed to ensure a genuine european film industry. financial support through programmes such as media and media-mundus and the structural funds are essential for the culture of cinema and the image, as was the case in the alentejo and the north of portugal. i am voting in favour because i consider cinema to be a very important cultural vehicle in which europe can make a difference. i also support the promotion and creation of european film festivals, with films 100% europe.
madam president, the transatlantic partnership must act against this crisis, taking lessons from the deregulatory madness inherent in the casino economy it allowed to flourish. the eu and us must then implement commitments made at the g20, including the control of tax havens, which continue to divert staggering resources from investment in economic growth and job creation. only in this way will the eu and us ensure strategic security for their democracies and also encourage the rule of law and human rights to take root at global level, countering negative designs by powers whose governments do not account to their peoples, such as china and russia. pressing a solution for the israeli-palestinian conflict is central for the us and the eu to assist the arab spring in disarming dictatorships, fundamentalisms and terrorisms, including in non-arab iran. israel will not survive without creating an interest for its own security in its region and, in particular, in its neighbouring state of palestine. the eu and the us should not delay any longer in recognising it.
madam president, there are two points in this debate which it is also important to clarify. the first concerns cuba. i know that the un general assembly has almost unanimously condemned once again the unacceptable economic blockade imposed by the united states against cuba, which is the main obstacle to its economic and social progress and a flagrant and systematic violation of the human rights of the cuban people. i ask you whether you do not consider it urgent that, in the context of the eu-us dialogue, the european union should take an autonomous position and advocate the end of the economic blockade against cuba. and does he not think that this condemnation of the blockade also shows once again the injustice of maintaining the european union's common position on cuba? the second question concerns palestine. does he not think that it is time for the palestinian state to be recognised immediately and for its application for membership of the un to be accepted, as has already happened with unesco, despite the continued blockade by the united states?
i am convinced that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the internet is not just a commercial object but a new fundamental right for citizens, because essential things such as freedom of expression, access to and sharing of information, access to and sharing of culture and knowledge, and democratic and media pluralism depend on this right. and that is why this access cannot be subject to speculative tariffs or contracts which block free choice and the possibility of changing suppliers easily, particularly in the world of mobile telecommunications, as we all know. active citizenship therefore requires that complete and transparent information be provided. blocking the free use of the internet is not exclusive to political regimes that are afraid of their people. it may also occur as a result of economic choices, by offering privileges to special customers and less equal treatment to customers who are not as profitable. that is why i support parliament in its clear support for net neutrality and the defence of the net's total openness.
in writing. other in april this year i supported the commission's initiative to create a european strategy for the inclusion of the roma, the largest ethnic minority in the eu, believing that only in this way will we be able to coordinate our efforts to combat this already historic trend towards exclusion of this people. this strategy sets out a set of common principles and objectives to be pursued both at eu and member state level, identifying four key areas: education, employment, health and housing. given that the primary responsibility lies with the member states, it is necessary for them to make the necessary efforts to align their national strategies with the objectives set out in the european strategy. it is regrettable that in the months since then there has been very little positive change and that only a small fraction of the eu funds available for this purpose have been used by member states in projects for roma inclusion. in addition, there have been several incidents of violence and discrimination against roma in recent months, and some member states have adopted allegedly discriminatory measures, such as in france and hungary.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague mr březina. the iter project aims to develop fusion energy. it will be a clean, sustainable energy, and it will contribute to the fight against climate change and security of supply. iter is the largest international cooperation project led by europe and involves research centres, universities and companies, with a primary importance for the development of scientific research in europe. europe must therefore continue to support this project, but i would point out that a number of mistakes were made in the past, particularly in the management of the project. careful and responsible management must be ensured in the future. it is important to find solutions and forms of financing that will allow the project to continue. however, i am opposed to solutions that use the funding allocated to the research framework programme, putting the other priorities of the programme at risk.
madam president, commissioner, the integrated maritime policy advocates a coordinated approach to the management and governance of the oceans, seas and coasts, in a global and coherent perspective of all european policies relating to the sea. taking a global perspective and an integrated approach implies the interaction of european maritime policies and calls for better governance through greater involvement in european decision-making. the success and relevance of this policy has been demonstrated over the last few years by the various initiatives financed in the form of preparatory actions and pilot projects. the integrated maritime policy should therefore continue to benefit from adequate funding during the next years of the current financial programming period. in this respect, i advocate adequate funding until 2013 not only to consolidate previous projects but also to establish a stable framework for the objectives of this programme. issues of policy, governance, sustainability and maritime surveillance are, for obvious reasons, issues of particular interest to some regions of the european union, such as the outermost regions. the octs are regions which, with the exception of french guiana, are small islands and depend on a small number of economic activities, and in which activities related to the sea and fishing are particularly important. the outermost regions also contribute to the european union's status as the world's largest exclusive economic zone. the outermost regions account for more than half of the european union's exclusive economic zone, some 15 million out of 25 million km2, and together with coastal regions, they are key to the economic growth of the european union and its member states. a programme such as the one under the integrated maritime policy should benefit these regions by giving priority to transnational coordination of maritime policies and relevant international cooperation. it is therefore necessary to ensure continuous and sufficient funding, not only for the next two years, but also and above all for the next financial framework, starting in 2014.
madam president, i cannot but take this opportunity, when we are talking about an integrated maritime policy, to underline the enormous potential that the atlantic and island dimension holds for the european union. the atlantic, as europe's western maritime frontier, also links it to the americas, north and south america and africa, giving europe a strategic dimension which is indispensable in the architecture of a future-oriented maritime policy. and it is with a view to the future that the integrated maritime policy, in addition to promoting the coordination of maritime activities, must put the potential of the atlantic in its three-dimensional dimension, based on science and technology, at the forefront of its priorities. the research of the mid-atlantic ridge, deep sea and seabed is a new frontier with potential in biotechnology and mineral resources and is of inestimable value to the knowledge economy. the union should therefore take advantage of the privileged position of the azores and the excellence of its oceanographic department to set up the deep sea observatory there.
madam president, the nature and specific features of the marine environment, the enormous diversity and increasing activity which is taking place in it today, and the need to regulate these activities by resolving potential conflicts in a socially and environmentally sustainable way, make it advisable to develop an integrated maritime policy to this end. the objectives, guiding principles and means of this policy will not, of course, be indifferent. we have serious reservations, and even disagreements, about the way the integrated maritime policy is being defined. the commission's proposal is based on a federalist approach to the imp, which disregards the sovereignty and powers of the member states over their territorial waters and exclusive economic zones and links it to the european union's foreign policy objectives. on the contrary, a maritime policy based on cooperation between member states, which naturally recognises the transboundary nature of the sea but respects the sovereignty and competences of states, promotes synergies, adds value and promotes the sustainable use and conservation of marine resources - this imp could undoubtedly have positive impacts.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, commissioner, as the rapporteur has rightly said, fishing is a global activity, as is necessarily its illegal component. illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing causes significant damage to a common heritage of humanity: the oceans and their vast, albeit finite, resources. it is estimated to be at least 15% of the total catch, although it may actually be much higher. the conservation of this heritage can only be a common task and responsibility of humanity. for this reason, the fight against illegal fishing must be considered as a priority in the context of international cooperation, in the framework of multilateral organisations such as the fao. the fao agreement on measures to be implemented by port states, the united nations fish stocks agreement, the fao agreement to promote compliance and the united nations convention on the law of the sea thus gain particular prominence. it is also important to strengthen the role and international cooperation within the framework of regional fisheries management organisations. we would like to acknowledge and value the efforts made by the rapporteur to promote a broad discussion, which included several interim working papers, and to produce a comprehensive and complete report. we also want to acknowledge the readiness to welcome all relevant contributions. the consensus that has been reached, despite natural point differences, will reflect not only the nature of the subject but also the method of work followed. unfortunately, the amendments tabled by the ppe, concerning the creation of the european coastguard, call this consensus into question. these are amendments which clearly go beyond the scope of the report and the discussion which took place during its preparation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we therefore call for these amendments to be rejected, without which the report will, in our view, be clearly weakened.
protection against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is also of decisive importance for the sustainability of resources and the activity of azorean fishing communities. we live in a region with the largest exclusive economic zone in europe, but this whole vast expanse, because of the absence of a continental shelf, has a lot of water, very deep, but little fish. the balanced exploitation of these fragile ecosystems is crucial to counteracting their degradation, but their protection against undeclared, unregulated and illegal fishing is difficult because of the extent of our waters and the insufficiency and inadequacy of the means that portugal has used to control access to and fisheries in our waters. the european union must therefore be involved and give priority to the appropriate means of monitoring and control which can counteract this threat and monitor and control illegal activities which waste our resources, endanger them and threaten the survival of our fishing communities.
in writing. − i welcome this report and urge the eu and its member states to respond in a timely manner to all requests for assistance and cooperation from the court, in order to ensure, inter alia, the execution of pending arrest warrants and the provision of information, including requests to help identify, freeze and confiscate the financial assets of suspects. i also urge all eu member states that have not yet done so to enact national legislation on cooperation and to conclude framework agreements with the icc for the purpose of implementing the court's judgments and on other issues such as criminal investigation, the collection of evidence, the location, protection and resettlement of witnesses, the detention, extradition, detention in custody and accommodation of suspects when released on bail, as well as the incarceration of convicted persons. it is also important that member states cooperate with each other through their police and judicial apparatuses and other relevant mechanisms to ensure adequate support to the icc.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the current threats to security and human life make it necessary for us to have a very active and interventionist international criminal court (icc). for this to happen, it needs a larger financial allocation and the political solidarity of its member states. only in this way will the icc be able to respond to the growing number of cases in which it is involved, ensure effective protection of its witnesses and include the crime of aggression in its jurisdiction as from 2017.
in writing. − the international criminal court has been unanimously supported by the european union and its member states. their work has helped to spread the idea of the universality of human rights and to make evident an increasingly widespread consensus around them and around the idea that even the worst criminals deserve a fair and transparent judicial process. several important members of the international community still do not recognise its jurisdiction and have not yet ratified the rome statute, but on the whole i believe that the positive role played by the icc in combating genocide and other crimes against humanity and in affirming international criminal law is undeniable. i hope that the union will maintain and strengthen its support for the icc and help it to strengthen its authority and the quality of its decisions and to become increasingly established as a respected and effective international court.
in writing. − the international criminal court (icc), set up on 1 july 2002, aims to prosecute perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. to discourage crime, it is vital that criminals realize that they will hardly evade trial for the atrocities they commit. however, at a time when the icc should be fully operational, it is facing problems due to a lack of financial support to sustain its work. this report, by wolfgang kreissel-dörfler, focuses on the european union's support for the icc, particularly in the wake of the growing number of cases that need to be brought before the southern mediterranean countries in order to make the arab spring a reality after thousands of people have given their lives for it. the icc must extend its action to all countries where crimes against humanity are committed, but this requires that the eu and its pillar member states create the conditions for its operation and be able to motivate other countries, such as china and the united states, to fully adopt the legislation implementing the icc. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the adoption of this report by the european parliament's majority is a double act. it is arrogant and arrogant on the one hand to press member states to enact legislation and to conclude agreements with the icc. at the same time, putting pressure on third countries to detain or support an operation to detain individuals with a warrant. on the other hand, as regards the usa - which is not a state party to the icc - and which is happy to participate, please note that it is an observer in the assembly of states parties. and he's merely making a profession of faith expressing hope that the united states will become a party. the us has passed legislation that prohibits the country's authorities from cooperating with the icc (when it comes to american citizens), but at the same time authorizes military operations to release us military personnel. moreover, they have established bilateral agreements, including with eu member states, to ensure that us personnel are not surrendered to the icc in third countries. the hypocritical duplicity, which is unfortunately common in the majority of the ep, serves the role of the icc as an instrument of interference, acting in the interests of the political interests of the great powers: a court in the hands of those who impose the law of force, interference, militarism and war.
in writing. − the majority of the ep takes a leading role, pressing member states to enact legislation and to conclude agreements with the icc. at the same time, they put pressure on third countries that are willing to allow individuals with icc arrest warrants to visit them to detain them or to support a detention operation. but as for the us which is not a state party to the icc rejoice in its participation, please note, as observers, in the assembly of states parties. and they make a profession of faith expressing hope that the united states will become a state party. the us has passed legislation that prohibits the country's authorities from cooperating with the icc (when it comes to american citizens), but at the same time authorizes military operations to release us military personnel. moreover, they have established bilateral agreements, including with eu member states, to ensure that us personnel are not surrendered to the icc in third countries. the hypocritical duplicity of the majority of the ep serves the role of the icc as an instrument of interference, acting in the political interests of the great capitalist powers: a court in the hands of those who impose the law of force, interference, militarism and war.
in writing. − the international criminal court continues to have the support of the european union and its member states. its action has been focused mainly on defending the universality of human rights and ensuring that even the worst criminals can have a fair and transparent trial. although several important members of the international community have not yet recognised the icc by not ratifying the rome statute, the role of the icc in combating genocide and other crimes against humanity and in affirming international criminal law is now inescapable.
in writing. − the creation of the international criminal court was a major step towards safeguarding global security, justice and peace, and it is now seen as an indispensable instrument for combating crimes against humanity and ensuring compliance with the fundamental rules of public international law, in particular the jus cogens. the european union, committed to the assertion of the primacy of the law in the regulation of relations between peoples and between states, has from an early stage expressed its support for the international criminal court, which is now facing new difficulties: on the one hand, the question of its financing, on the other hand, the criticisms that have successively sought to shake its credibility. in a situation like the present one, it is important to strengthen european commitment to this international dispute settlement body, both in terms of symbolic support and material support. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the international criminal court (icc) was established to protect the safety of human life through a single global mandate to prosecute the perpetrators of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, under the principle of complementarity. the icc is currently facing a set of political, technical and financial difficulties which have hampered its activities. the eu and its member states emerge as the main donors. however, the current funding is not sufficient. the report calls on the commission and the member states to increase their contributions to cover important areas, including awareness-raising, victim services and the presence of the icc on the ground. in parallel, member states are called upon to fully adopt implementing legislation and the eu to raise awareness among non-parties, in particular those of the united nations security council, russia, china and the usa. atrocities against human life must be avoided in all their forms. the condemnation of violations must take on a planetary scale. this requires the states parties to coordinate their actions in cases of non-cooperation with the icc.
in writing. − i welcome this report because it provides pmi with a stable financial framework for the period 2011-2013 to consolidate previous projects in the areas of policy, governance, sustainability and surveillance, although i consider that the amounts involved still leave doubts about the existence of a strong determination to design a european maritime policy with an eye to the future.
in writing. - it is always with great satisfaction that i vote for measures leading to a deepening of the european union's integrated maritime policy. portugal has the largest exclusive economic zone in the european union and lisbon is home to the european maritime safety agency. that is why it is with great personal and political pleasure that i note the increase in funding for this programme of in-depth studies and the great unity of all the political groups around the strengthening of this maritime vocation of europe. it is never too much to say that the ocean floor, along with space exploration, is the last great frontier, and if the eu is to continue its leading role in the world, it cannot neglect (rather, on the contrary, it must deepen) its maritime vocation, which is so present in virtually all of europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the deepening of the integrated maritime policy (imp), as i considered positive the agreement reached with the council to set the financial allocation for the implementation of the objectives of the imp at eur 40 000 000 over the next two years, in particular as regards the implementation of projects in the areas of governance, sustainability and surveillance.
in writing. - the eu has a coastline of 320 000 km, and economic activities at sea and on the coast produce 40% of our gdp. in addition, 40% of intra-european trade and 95% of exports outside the eu take place by sea. these figures clearly demonstrate the importance of the sea and, with it, the importance of a transversal and integrated maritime policy, which makes it possible to exploit all the potential that the sea has as an economic and energy resource, as a creator of jobs and wealth and as a driver of competitiveness and innovation. as a portuguese, i am naturally a defender of the sea and i recognize all its immense potential for the times of crisis we live in it was always to the sea that portugal looked in times of distress. that is why, in the difficult times we are living through, i consider it essential to make a clear and decisive commitment to the sea and to its full strategic and economic potential.
in writing. - this report, by mr georgios koumoutsakos, concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation establishing a programme to support the further development of the integrated maritime policy (imp). in 2007, the commission, advocating an integrated approach to ocean, sea and coastal management, presented the green paper on msy and the communication 'an integrated maritime policy for the european union' which formed the basis of european policy in this area. in the following years (2008-2010) the european parliament adopted a number of resolutions in this context and a number of initiatives were funded through preparatory actions and pilot projects. despite the financial crisis, it is essential that the eu continues to finance this imp in accordance with the marine and water framework directives. in addition, member states should pool synergies in order to share information and collaborate, taking into account the sustainable use and protection of marine and coastal resources. in this context, i am voting in favour of this report, which follows parliament's support on 21 october 2010 for the commission's intention to finance pmi with an amount of eur 50 million over the next two years.
in writing. − the integrated maritime policy (imp), as it has been put forward by the commission and defended by the majority of this parliament, is marked by a federalist, mercantilist and geo-strategic view of the use of the eezs of the member states. the report states that the strategic objectives of the imo include integrated maritime governance at all levels and it is well known that, from border control to the liberalisation of maritime transport, to security issues and the european coast guard, this policy has objectives with which we cannot agree. this report is about regulating a programme of support for the deepening of the mip, and at this stage its content does not reflect the dangerous negative aspects highlighted. however, these cannot be disregarded. the aim at this stage is to make it possible to finance studies on aspects such as the protection and preservation of the marine environment, or to support the formulation of policies relating to the sea or coastal areas, in particular in the fields of economic development, employment, environmental protection, research, maritime safety, energy and the development of green marine technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. − the nature and specificities of the marine environment, the enormous diversity of activities taking place in it today (and the trend is increasing) and the need to regulate these activities by addressing potential conflicts in a socially and environmentally sustainable way, call for the development of an integrated maritime policy to this end. the objectives, guiding principles and means of this policy will not, of course, be indifferent. we have serious reservations and disagreements about the way the eu's integrated maritime policy is being defined. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the management of the fisheries sector. on the contrary, a maritime policy based on cooperation between member states, respecting their sovereignty and competences, promoting synergies, adding value and promoting the sustainable use and conservation of marine resources could undoubtedly have positive impacts.
in writing. - the approval of this eur 40 million for the deepening of the maritime policy is very important for the achievement of the objectives already defined. the eu's integrated maritime policy, established in 2007, advocates an integrated approach to the management and governance of oceans, seas, coastal areas, islands and outermost regions, and promotes the interaction of all eu policies related to the maritime domain, such as transport, fisheries, tourism, environmental protection and biodiversity. this regulation provides for a programme to provide a stable framework for the financing of a set of projects and initiatives from 2011 to 2013, the year in which the current financial perspectives (the eu's multiannual financial framework) end.
in writing. − the integrated maritime policy for the management and governance of oceans, seas and coasts allows all european policies related to the sea to be aggregated, thus promoting the adoption of comprehensive strategies. in a matter of such wide scope, a policy-refinement support programme must set clear objectives, establish transparent funding rules and involve all community actors in the decision-making process - even more so when the proposed funding amounts to eur 50 million for the period 2011-2013. in general, this is a worthwhile strategy, which takes the sea as a source of economic and environmental wealth and as a field that requires specific responses. i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. − an integrated european maritime policy means an approach to the management and governance of the oceans, seas and coasts in the eu that takes into account a greater interaction between all sea-related policies at european level. a number of initiatives have already been carried out through preparatory actions and pilot projects with a maximum duration of two or three years. the purpose of the european parliament's proposal is to establish the programme in a stable framework capable of supporting it from 2011 to 2013. the agreement reached safeguards the european parliament's concerns about maintaining the programme with adequate funding, which guarantees eur 50 million for the current programming period.
in writing. - i approve the report, stressing that the iter research project is useful because it concerns one of the possible sources of energy for the future in europe and because, bringing added value to the eu, it should deserve adequate funding.
in writing. the iter project aims to develop fusion energy. it will be a clean, sustainable energy and will contribute to the fight against climate change and security of supply. iter is the largest european-led international cooperation project involving research centres and universities, and is of paramount importance for the development of scientific research. europe must continue to support this project, but i would draw attention to the various mistakes made in the past in terms of management. careful and responsible management must be ensured in the future. it is important to find solutions and forms of financing that will allow the project to continue. however, i am opposed to solutions that use the funding allocated to the research framework programme, putting the other priorities of the programme at risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important to continue the nuclear research and training activities under the euratom framework programme for 2012 and 2013, especially with regard to radiation protection, non-proliferation of nuclear materials and scientific applications, including medical applications, as well as in the field of nuclear fusion.
in writing. − nuclear energy safety has been at the heart of european concerns, in particular following the recent events in fukushima. i believe that research should be continued, in particular to strengthen the safety of nuclear fission, waste management processes, decommissioning and decommissioning and other applications of radiation in industry and medicine, as well as to improve nuclear physical safety (nuclear safeguards, non-proliferation, combating illicit trafficking and nuclear forensic investigation). after the 7th euratom framework programme, which ends this year, research on these matters will have to continue.
in writing. − in times of crisis we need to ensure that the implementation of the framework programmes of the various eu bodies is well implemented. in the specific case of the european atomic energy community, it is important that funds are well used to safeguard potential safety risks as well as in research towards the discovery of cleaner atomic energy with less environmental risks. it is important that we continue to invest in nuclear research and training activities so that we can have access to safer nuclear energy.
in writing. - the use of nuclear energy is currently on the agenda. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy. on the one hand, research is essential for the development of energy production techniques, and on the other hand it is the only way to reduce the risks associated with the use of this energy source. i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. − according to article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the commission may amend its proposal at any stage of the procedures for adopting a union act, as long as the council has not acted. it should be noted that the preferential reference amount indicated in the legislative proposal is not compatible with the ceiling set in heading 1a of the current multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2007-2013, and the european commission needs to correct its proposal. this report aims to stimulate the development of the three major european cooperation initiatives in the field of nuclear science and technology defined in the framework programme for 2012-2013, namely the technology platform for sustainable nuclear energy (snetp), the technology platform for the implementation of geological removal (igd-tp) and the european multidisciplinary low dose initiative (melodi). i agree with this report because it aims to adopt new mechanisms for simplification and to promote greater safety for citizens, especially after the incident at the fukushima nuclear power station in japan.
in writing. - i approve this report. i would point out that the two transatlantic partners account for half the world economy and are the main drivers of global economic prosperity. i would like to stress the recommendation in this declaration on the importance of launching a joint transatlantic initiative for jobs and growth, including a trade and investment promotion roadmap, it is an initiative that must be implemented immediately.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more effective role in the fight against terrorism. i would also stress the importance attached to the issue of energy efficiency, which, despite the crisis, must remain on the agenda.
in writing. - relations between the european union and the united states of america must remain at the heart of the concerns of all policy-makers on both sides of the atlantic. the forthcoming summit is another opportunity to strengthen transatlantic ties and to boost eu-us cooperation in view of the need to revitalize their economies and to respond coherently and ambitiously to the crisis currently afflicting them. a divided west, throwing away its own civilizational values, is precisely what cannot be achieved, especially at this time of unusual fragility. the european and american leaders are therefore called upon to show strategic vision, ambition and decisiveness.
in writing. - this resolution fails to address what was essential, which relates to the root causes of the crisis. it does not seriously intend to stop speculation on food prices; it insists on measures aimed at liberalizing international trade; it lacks firmness in its position on the solution of the palestinian problem, while ignoring other essential issues, such as the inhumane blockade of cuba. at the same time, the process that led to the recent foreign intervention in libya is repeated, with the method and the known consequences, opening the way to the possibility of new wars in syria and iran, with the danger of a generalization of the conflict to the entire middle east region. capitalism reveals more and more its nature and deep contradictions, since it is a system that does not solve the problems of humanity, but aggravates them, fostering inequalities, injustices, poverty. this summit represents an attempt by these two poles of imperialism, as their hegemony is being challenged, to coordinate strategies to perpetuate what is unsustainable: the maintenance of the system. for all these reasons, we voted against this resolution.
in writing. - the need to ensure that the european union is able to play a more active role in the world economy, and to ensure that the european union is able to play a more active role in the world economy; as imperialist hegemony is challenged, so too are its powers seeking to coordinate strategies to perpetuate what is unsustainable: the maintenance of the system and the neoliberal policies that generate, cyclically, the crisis we are experiencing today. this joint resolution is an example of this: it fails to analyse the essential reasons for the crisis; it does not seriously intend to stop food price speculation; it insists on measures aimed at liberalizing international trade; the european parliament has not taken a firm stand on the solution of the palestinian problem, while at the same time forgetting other essential issues, such as the demand for the immediate and effective release of the five cubans. at the same time, the process that led to the recent foreign intervention in libya is repeated, with the known method and consequences, opening the way to the possibility of new wars in syria and iran, with the danger of a generalization of the conflict to the entire middle east region. we therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. − this summit is another good opportunity for the us and eu to strengthen and improve their relations. we must not forget that together the two transatlantic partners account for half the world economy, making their $4.28 billion partnership the largest, most integrated and longest-lasting economic relationship in the world and the main driver of global economic prosperity. whereas the current economic and financial crisis, which is afflicting both europe and the united states, is threatening the stability and prosperity of our economies and the well-being of our citizens, and whereas it has never been more urgent to strengthen economic cooperation between europe and the united states in order to combat this crisis; i hope that this summit will achieve the objectives set.
in writing. − the economies of the united states of america and the european union represent half of the world economy and are strongly interlinked. on the other hand, these are places with deep cultural ties. these two considerations should inform the european union's guidance for the next us-eu summit on 28 november 2011, which is expected to promote the strengthening of eu-us ties, allowing the us to continue to position itself as a privileged partner in the global context. indeed, cooperation between the us and the eu contributes to strengthening their positions in the world political context, which is of paramount importance not only in the economic field but also in the framework of foreign policy in support of development and the defence of human rights. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union and the united states of america should continue to cooperate on joint initiatives in pursuit of the goal of generating more growth and jobs for both transatlantic parties. it is also essential to foster their partnership in global governance, foreign policy, with a particular focus on international conflicts, and development aid. in the areas of freedom and security, it is equally important to stress the need for joint efforts to reach balanced bilateral agreements that safeguard the interests and values of both parties. i have therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's document, as these are the priorities to be taken into account at the summit on 28 november.
in writing. - i approve this report. consumers have the right to make informed choices and to be effectively able to benefit from operators that meet their needs in terms of speed and volume of downloads and services. the promotion of these services should be clear in terms of information on all commercial practices, and to the same effect on the mobile internet.
in writing. − the open and neutral nature of the internet has been a driver for greater competitiveness, economic growth and innovation, resulting in extraordinary levels of development of online applications, content and services. in this context, the 2009 eu telecoms regulatory framework safeguards the principles of net neutrality and openness of the internet and promotes the ability of consumers to access and distribute information without discrimination as to the content, applications and services of their choice. unfortunately, some abusive business practices in traffic management, such as blocking access to skype, can call into question this principle of net neutrality. in this context, it is essential to uphold the minimum conditions necessary for internet neutrality, such as effective competition in electronic communications, transparency in traffic management and quality of service, as well as the ease for consumers to switch to a new provider that best meets their needs and preferences. in order to ensure that the internet can continue to provide high quality services in a framework which promotes and respects fundamental rights, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that an open and neutral internet contributes to the innovation of our economy and to a more active participation of civil society, as well as to the strengthening of our democracy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. − the internet is now an irreplaceable element as a means of communication and a vehicle for the transmission of information and knowledge, but also as a logistical platform for economic and commercial activities of great importance. it is also a platform where ease of access and anonymity make it easier and more appealing to commit illicit acts, whether small crimes or organised crime, paedophilia and child abuse. that is why the internet is today a reality with immense potential that we have an obligation to take advantage of , but also with some dangers, which it is up to the state to regulate and mitigate. this does not call into question the principle i stand for of an internet that is open to all and free, but in the name of freedom we cannot allow the use of the net for the practice of illegal and criminal activities that deserve repression and punishment.
in writing. − we support the vision expressed in the report of an open internet, accessible to all, based on the principle of neutrality of content processing, non-discrimination of information, and broadband use. we are concerned about the imposition of software and programming content by large multinational companies in the sector. these companies are implementing this principle by selecting information priorities and software patents according to their interests and objectives. we know that the internet is dominated by these big groups that have a monopoly on the network and the associated software. this is a matter of strategic importance for the member states. we stand for an open, free, neutral software internet that allows everyone access to information, simplifying the lives of public administrations, small and medium-sized businesses and the general population.
in writing. - we agree to an open internet, accessible to all, based on the principle of neutrality of content processing, and without discrimination of information and broadband use. we are concerned about the imposition by large companies of the contents of programmes and software, since, for the purposes of competition and above all for the accumulation of profits, they circumvent this principle by selecting information priorities and software patents, taking into account their interests and objectives. we know that the internet is dominated by these big groups that have a monopoly on the network and the associated software. this is a matter of strategic importance for the member states. we stand for an open, free, neutral software internet that allows everyone access to information, simplifying the lives of public administrations, small and medium-sized enterprises and the general population.
in writing. - the internet is today an irreplaceable means of communication and transmission of information and knowledge, and a place where a wide range of economic and commercial activities take place. its easy access and the possibility of anonymity also make it an ideal place for certain types of crime, such as organised crime, paedophilia and child abuse. it is in the face of this reality that measures must be taken so that the states regulate in such a way as to reduce their dangers.
in writing. − internet access has provided a new medium that has revolutionized the way people interact with each other. however, much of this success comes from what is known as 'internet neutrality', i.e. no manipulation or misuse of the information sought by the user. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. in fact, without this principle, the internet, instead of being an instrument for dynamism, freedom of expression and creation, access to knowledge and competitiveness, becomes an instrument for control and domination. as i look back on the analysis presented, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the openness and neutrality of the internet are key drivers of innovation and its access has a cross-border scale, on which the world economy is based. their multiplier effects for job creation and competitiveness, as expressed in the digital agenda initiative, as well as for the promotion of fundamental rights, should be safeguarded. i fully agree with this report, because it seeks to protect consumers on the one hand and to promote the european economy on the other. the provision of high-quality services, as well as the negative impact of the breach of the principles of net neutrality, should be regulated. moreover, consumers should be informed in a transparent and clear manner of the services provided. the importance of the internet is undeniable. the skills of european citizens in information and communication technologies should therefore be increased and digital exclusion reduced.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of controls on the use of chemical weapons. the devastating humanitarian consequences of the use of such weapons should therefore oblige all states not to ratify any draft protocol to the jccc to be discussed at the fourth review conference of the jccc in geneva which could allow the use of such weapons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions because they aim at the eradication of these types of weapons. the cluster munitions are a real scourge for the populations of the countries that have used them, killing large numbers of civilians, many of them children. the convention on cluster munitions should therefore be implemented more and more widely.
in writing. - cluster munitions have a devastating effect on combatants and there is now a relative consensus to eradicate them. i can only join him in this, but i am sure that this effort will hardly meet its desired end. unfortunately, despite all the international conventions that seek to limit its impact, armed conflicts are hardly confined to defined areas and, being aimed at the physical elimination of enemies, they often encounter cases of non-compliance with the rules that should govern them. human nature is capable of the worst at this point, and cluster munitions are one of the main exponents of what we are capable of when animated by that destructive spirit. the abolition of these munitions would be an important step towards civilization.
in writing. we welcome the adoption of the following points of this resolution: - urges all member states not to adopt, sign or subsequently ratify a protocol under the convention on certain conventional weapons (ccw) allowing the use of cluster munitions which are prohibited under the ccw; - calls on all eu member states and candidate countries not party to the jcc to accede to it as a matter of urgency, and urges the signatory states to ratify the jcc as soon as possible; - calls on all eu member states that are not yet parties to the ccm but wish to reduce the humanitarian impact of cluster munitions to adopt strong and transparent measures pending their accession, including the adoption of a moratorium on the use, production and transfer of cluster munitions, and to start, as a matter of urgency, the destruction of stockpiles of cluster munitions; - calls on all eu member states that have signed the jcc to take every opportunity to encourage all states - including eu candidate countries that are not parties to the jcc - to accede to the convention as soon as possible.
in writing. - cluster munitions pose a serious risk to the civilian population due to their extensive lethal trail. in post-conflict situations, the use of such munitions has caused many serious injuries and deaths among the civilian population, as unexploded munitions are often found by children and other innocent people unaware of the danger. the support of the majority of eu member states for parliamentary initiatives and the work of civil society organisations was instrumental in the successful conclusion of the oslo process, which led to the entry into force of the convention on cluster munitions (cmf), whereas 22 eu member states are states parties to the cmf and 15 eu member states have not signed or ratified the cmf. the fmc prohibits states parties from using, developing, producing or otherwise acquiring, storing, retaining or transferring to another, directly or indirectly, and from aiding, abetting or inducing another to engage in an activity prohibited to a state party under the convention. we are therefore on the right track for the elimination of cluster munitions.
in writing. - cluster munitions have successively caused serious injuries and deaths among civilians and children who encounter them without having detonated. since it is a weapon of war which permanently poses risks to the people who are the victims of the conflict, it must be banned completely. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − cluster munitions pose a serious risk to the civilian population due to their extensive lethal trail and, in post-conflict situations, the use of such munitions has caused many serious injuries and deaths among the civilian population. i support the call for non-approval, non-subscription or non-ratification of any protocol to the convention on the prohibition or limitation of the use of certain conventional weapons (cwc) allowing the use of cluster munitions, which are prohibited under the cwc, and for action to be taken accordingly at the fourth review conference of the cwc to be held in geneva from 14 to 25 november 2011. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the european parliament's document.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, recalling the oecd principles on taxation of electronic commerce adopted at the 1998 ottawa conference. according to these principles, rules on consumption taxes, such as vat, should imply that taxation is to take place in the territory where consumption takes place. in accordance with the provisions of directive 2008/8/ec, the oecd principles will apply in the european union as from 1 january 2015. i believe that a revision of vat legislation, by giving more flexibility to member states in the area of reduced vat rates, should go hand in hand with the application of the principles enshrined in directive 2008/8/ec. however, i would stress that in order to allow all member states to benefit equally from the digital single market, the principle of taxation in the member state of the customer should be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union should review the vat rules in such a way as to encourage businesses to develop and offer new pan-european services, with the aim of stimulating the digital single market. it is necessary to remove the inconsistencies in the current legislative framework, in particular directive 2006/112/ec, as they constitute an obstacle to the development of new digital services and may undermine the objectives set out in the digital agenda for europe.
in writing. - i fully support this resolution, which, following the report on the modernisation of vat, presents another innovative initiative in the field of taxation. in particular, it concerns the paradigmatic case which still exists in the book industry, namely the difference between the vat rates applicable to the supply of books in physical format and those applicable to books in digital format. the latter do not currently benefit from the same reduced vat rates as the former, and a negative differentiation between the former and the latter still exists, which leads to a distortion of competition between the latter, with all the ensuing consequences. moreover, this negative differentiation does not occur on the other side of the atlantic, creating a real obstacle to european industry in this sector, making it impossible for it to grow.
in writing. the resolution calls for the creation of a digital single market where cultural, journalistic and creative content will be distributed. there are several contradictions in its general sense. in order to develop this market as widely and rapidly as possible, the commission proposes that these goods and services of cultural content, supplied by electronic means, should be subject to a temporary reduction in vat. we are in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore believe that the commission should not invade the competence of the member states, including in matters of indirect taxation, particularly as regards the setting of vat rates. this is what is happening through the so-called financial assistance programmes, which are in fact genuine aggression programmes, under the auspices of the imf and the eu, launched in countries such as portugal. there are now many direct and/or indirect pressures to generalize and perpetuate this interference, under the pretext, how often, of the so-called fiscal harmonizations, of which so much is said without touching on the content: harmonized by whom, in what form and in whose interest? each member state should be able to decide on the application of vat rates. moreover, this reduced vat rate should not be a temporary measure but a definitive one for such content.
in writing. - there are several contradictions in the general sense of this resolution, which is the creation of a digital single market where cultural, journalistic and creative content will be distributed. in order to develop this market as widely and rapidly as possible, the commission proposes that these goods and services of cultural content, supplied by electronic means, should be subject to a temporary reduction in vat. we support the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore we believe that the commission should not invade the competence of the member states, including in matters of indirect taxation, in particular as regards the setting of vat rates. each member state should be able to decide on the application of vat rates. moreover, this reduced vat rate should not be a temporary measure but a definitive one for such content.
in writing. - the inconsistency in the vat rules applicable to products sold in physical, electronic form is a matter of longstanding concern to the eu. given that member states may apply reduced vat to cultural goods by physical means in order to promote access to these products, it does not seem to me right that the same products, because they are sold online, should be treated differently. we are therefore talking about an aspect of the vat directive which is completely obsolete in the face of new consumer trends. it is therefore important that this point be revised so that there is no different vat just because the same products are sold through different distribution channels. this development, together with the copyright reform, will facilitate the free circulation of audiovisual content online, thus contributing to the creation and stimulation of a genuine digital internal market.
in writing. - the potential of the digital market is well known. a more easily accessible market for sellers and buyers would make for more dynamic market activity. in that context, it must, on the one hand, seek to prevent such activities from developing outside the tax systems of the member states and, on the other hand, ensure that they are not subject to particularly onerous treatment. i believe that these concerns are duly reflected in this report and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − excise duties on goods and services have been fragmenting the digital single market, as can be seen in books on paper where the reduced rate applies and in books on digital media the normal rate. i agree with this resolution, because i believe it is essential that the european commission should examine any proposals in the area of the standardisation of vat charged on the same items but on different bases, in order to meet the requirements of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i approve this report. i believe that georgia has made remarkable progress on its pro-european path. as the report stresses, it does, however, need to speed up reforms of the judicial system, better ensure the protection of media freedom, improve the rights of workers and women, and integrate ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the association agreement contributes to the deepening of relations between the eu and georgia. georgia's commitment to eu values and principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights are key to the successful implementation of the association agreement, while ensuring a sustainable impact on the country's development.
in writing. - georgia has been pursuing convergence reforms with the european union which allow it to entertain hope of future membership, although this does not present itself as possible in the short term. in this context, the negotiation of the eu-georgia association agreement could provide another means of strengthening relations which could be beneficial for both populations. i hope that the negotiations will move forward at a good pace and that they will lead to a balanced and fair agreement.
in writing. − this report takes a narrow view, still focused on the 2008 conflict, of the problems between russia and georgia and the issues of territorial and sovereignty dispute, over south ossetia and abkhazia, attempting to create a political justification for taking a side to further defend the eu's economic and geopolitical interests in the caucasus region. as on other occasions in other parts of the world, what is at stake is the assertion of these interests, ensuring access to important resources throughout the region and energy supply, for which the conclusion of this agreement is important. the majority in parliament wants to go further, opening the door to the negotiation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area, removing all barriers to big capital from the eu and georgia. it is on the basis of these interests that support for and interference in georgia's internal affairs should be understood. it is these interests that help to explain and understand inconsistencies, contradictions and various hypocrisies. the eu is seen as a defender of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and international law of states. but it has promoted, supported and is supporting processes of secession in europe and other parts of the world, as has happened with kosovo, for example.
in writing. − this report maintains a narrow view, still focused on the 2008 russia-georgia conflict and the issues of territorial and sovereignty disputes over south ossetia and abkhazia, and attempts to create a political justification for taking sides to pursue the eu's economic and geopolitical interests in the caucasus region. what is at stake is access to important resources throughout the region and guarantees of energy supply, for which the conclusion of this agreement is important. the majority of meps want to go further, opening the door to the negotiation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area, removing all barriers to big capital from the eu and georgia. it is on the basis of these interests that support for and interference in georgia's internal affairs should be understood. the eu is assuming which side it is on in the arms race between the us, nato and russia, arrogating itself as the defender of sovereignty, the territorial integrity of states and international law when it comes to georgia. but it has promoted, supported and is supporting processes of secession in europe and other regions of the world.
in writing. - georgia has made the necessary efforts to implement the reforms of convergence with the european union which may open the door to future membership. the ongoing negotiations on the eu-georgia association agreement can thus contribute positively to closer relations which can be beneficial for both populations.
in writing. - georgia is currently negotiating with the council, the commission and the european external action service for the conclusion of an association agreement. in this context, the path georgia has taken towards consolidating the rule of law by strengthening the public administration of justice and the social effort to integrate ethnic and religious minorities by seeking public action that respects the fundamental rights of citizens is to be applauded. given the difficult geostrategic context in which georgia finds itself, including the russian occupation of two parts of its territory, it is imperative that the european union step up its efforts to de-escalate the already tense relations between georgia and russia, ensuring that georgia does not sacrifice the progress made in the meantime. i therefore voted in favour, in the hope that the negotiations can be successfully concluded.
in writing. − negotiations on the eu-georgia association agreement started on 15 july 2010. six plenary meetings have been held to date and the process is progressing positively. however, as regards the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), negotiations have not yet started and this report aims to make some recommendations in the context of future eu-georgia relations in order to improve and accelerate the conditions for the launch of the dcfta negotiations.
in writing. − following the work on raising awareness of gender equality that the eu, and the ep in particular, has been doing, it is important that there is a real and effective incorporation of this perspective into all the policies and activities of the european parliament. i believe that ultimately the integration of these policies will help to change the nature of the institution for the better, meeting the aspirations of society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the adoption and implementation of an action plan which integrates the gender dimension into the various activities and policies of the european parliament. this action plan should also contribute to a better balance between women and men in decision-making processes by increasing the number of women in parliament's management bodies and increasing the representation of men in areas where they are under-represented.
in writing. - as i have said many times in this house, men and women must be treated equally, given the same rights but with special consideration for their needs, which in the case of women is particularly evident in areas such as maternity protection and reconciliation of work and family life. in this context, i naturally think it is important that the european parliament should promote equality between men and women in its activities and strive for greater representation of women. it should be noted that of the 22 committees, 8 are chaired by women, and that of the 14 vice-presidents, 6 are women, figures which reflect the importance of women in the european parliament, and we can name here numerous members who, by their exemplary work, do a lot for women's representation, without needing quotas and other supposedly equal mechanisms.
in writing. - this report on the mainstreaming of the gender perspective in the european parliament's activities rightly states that gender equality implies comprehensive and transversal action aimed at the real and effective incorporation of the gender perspective in all policies and activities. it also requires an assessment of the impact of policy measures on women and men at different levels, coordination of existing initiatives and the specification of the objectives and priorities and the means to achieve them. specific funding programmes and allocations are required. this is a welcome and necessary report, which we naturally supported. the attention paid to gender issues and the fight for equality cannot be penalized on the pretext of the crisis. this problem is particularly acute in the area of labour and social rights, where the setbacks are unfortunately obvious and worrying, and it is therefore important to combat them decisively, because in many cases they represent genuine civilizational setbacks.
in writing. − this report on the mainstreaming of gender in the european parliament's activities focuses on the issue of gender equality, stating that this issue involves more than the promotion of equality and that a concrete policy on equality is therefore needed. to this end, funding programmes and specific funds are indispensable. the issue of equality cannot be penalized on the pretext of the crisis, particularly with regard to labour and social rights. we therefore supported the report which states, inter alia, the following: commits to adopting and regularly implementing an action plan for gender mainstreaming in parliament with the overall objective of promoting equality between men and women by genuinely and effectively incorporating this perspective into all policies and activities, in order to assess the different impacts of policy measures on women and men, coordinate existing initiatives and specify the objectives and priorities and the means to achieve them.
in writing. − equal treatment for men and women is a cause i have always embraced and continue to defend. we all have the same rights, but we cannot forget the differences that exist, particularly for women in terms of maternity protection and reconciling work and family life. the ep is a testament to equality between men and women, as there are many women in this house who stand out for the quality of their work, which is why i reiterate that i see no need for the implementation of any artificial mechanism to achieve this equality. competence is always having the last word.
in writing. - article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that in all its actions, the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women. gender mainstreaming is thus one of the eu's principles, and there should be no discrimination between men and women in the conduct of the union's activities. this report aims to show that the ep must do more to integrate gender and that all its policies must reflect the needs, aspirations and experiences of all members of society. the femm committee takes a number of initiatives for the implementation and development of the gender perspective, including through the process of mainstreaming the gender perspective in amendments and the appointment of a gender perspective member in each committee. this makes it possible to monitor the way gender is taken into account in the legislative process of the parliament.
in writing. − illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is a serious and growing problem worldwide that undermines conservation and stock management efforts in all types of capture fisheries, leads to the loss of economic and social opportunities in both the short and medium term, and has negative repercussions on food security and environmental protection. the european union has a special responsibility in combating iuu fishing, as it is the world's largest fish market and one of the major fishing powers. the objective of this regulation should therefore be to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the report makes the following recommendations to achieve this objective: to increase the capacity to investigate criminal activities at sea; to increase the transparency and traceability of fisheries in order to enable the detection of criminal activities and reduce the proceeds thereof; to monitor or, preferably, prohibit the sale of used vessels to companies of unidentifiable shipowners; to improve the monitoring of the activities of fishing vessels and their interaction with merchant ships. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - unfortunately, illegal fishing exists and has very negative and harmful effects on the formal economy at the global level, as well as on the sustainable preservation of our natural resources. the nature of the phenomenon of unreported fishing makes it impossible to estimate precisely the volume of catches and their economic value. however, it is estimated that the percentage is at least 15% of the total catches. in view of this, and because we all want to continue to eat wild fish in the future, it seems to me essential that the union, as the world's largest fish market and one of the world's largest fishing powers, should be an example for the rest of the world to follow. it is therefore imperative to ensure that fishing rights are subject to objective criteria of transparency of ownership of operations and catches. it is also essential that member states which do not comply with their obligations lose their fishing rights. there's still a lot to do. the report takes account of this. i therefore believe that it is possible to combat (organized or sporadic) crime in the fishing sector and to promote the formal, transparent and sustainable development of this activity through greater cooperation between the member states and at european level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'fighting illegal fishing worldwide - the role of the eu', because illegal fishing can only be effectively tackled by strengthening international cooperation. the eu should make every effort to mobilise the international community to develop legal instruments, including in the world trade organisation, to prevent and punish illegal fishing, which accounts for some 15% of global annual catches, or an estimated 11 to 26 million tonnes of fish per year.
in writing. - illegal fishing is a phenomenon that threatens all the efforts made by the international community and the european union in particular to balance a strong and dynamic fishing industry with the necessary replenishment of fisheries resources. although it is not possible to have precise figures because of the illegal nature of fishing, recent studies have estimated that 11 to 26 million tonnes of fish are caught each year, and that 11 million would represent 15% of total marine catches. as portugal is a maritime and fishing country, it is very important to me that the eu takes all measures to protect fisheries and to prevent illegal fishing which harms everyone, and in particular the communities which are engaged in fishing as their main source of income.
in writing. - in essence, the report takes an approach which we believe is correct to the problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the role of multilateral organisations such as the un and fao in combating this practice, which is highly damaging to marine ecosystems, and the role of regional fisheries management organisations seem appropriate. in addition to the environmental consequences, this is a practice that also has extremely harmful economic and social consequences, in some cases with prolongations and links to organized crime. without prejudice to aspects which would merit further clarification, with regard to the fight against iuu fishing within the eu, an area in which we will certainly have some differences with the rapporteur's position, we value several of the proposals presented in the report, some of them innovative (for example, with regard to the marketing states and others). but we cannot but point out that the amendments proposed by the ppe, and approved, on the creation of a european coastguard with surveillance, inspection and combating what they consider to be future threats at sea such as terrorism and piracy are profoundly negative. these are regrettable amendments which clearly go beyond the scope of the report and destroy the consensus which had been reached in committee.
in writing. - fishing is a global activity, as is its illegal component. illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing causes significant damage to a common heritage of humanity, which includes the oceans and their vast, albeit finite, resources. it is estimated that at least 15% of the total catch volume is accounted for, although in reality it may be much higher. the conservation of this heritage is unequivocally a common task and responsibility of humanity. for this reason, it is a priority to consider combating illegal fishing within the framework of international cooperation established between multilateral organisations such as the fao. the fao agreement on measures to be implemented by port states, the united nations fish stocks agreement, the fao agreement to promote compliance and the united nations convention on the law of the sea thus gain particular prominence. but we disagree with the creation of the european coast guard proposed by the epp. these are amendments which clearly go beyond the scope of the report and the debate which took place during its preparation. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments which are far from consensual, unlike the majority of the other measures proposed in the report, some of which are innovative.
in writing. − the fight against illegal fishing is of great importance as it represents one of the most serious threats to ocean biodiversity and a source of unfair competition for fishermen who respect the rules in force. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat illegal fishing, including by strengthening inspections at sea, blocking access to markets for these products and imposing sanctions on countries that fail to comply. the volume of catches from illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing has been estimated at between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year, equivalent to at least 15% of global catches, making sustainable management of the world's marine resources economically, socially and environmentally unfeasible. the fight against iuu fishing requires, in order to be effective, international cooperation and a comprehensive exchange of information on fishing vessels, their activities and catches.
in writing. the vast majority of the surface of the oceans (two thirds) is not under the jurisdiction of states. to this extent, problems such as global fisheries require integrated responses from the various states, since, in isolation, they have no capacity to react. in this context, the european union should play a leading role by providing itself with the necessary instruments to combat illegal fishing and by strengthening cooperation with international organisations capable of carrying out control and surveillance activities with a broad supporting base. the existence of a fair competitive market depends on fisheries regulation, but also, and above all, on the very sustainability of certain fish species and the balance of the ecosystem. i voted in favour of this measure.
in writing. - the issue of illegal fishing is one of the european union's major concerns in the fisheries policy. despite the difficulty of determining the volume of illegal fishing, it is estimated to be between 11 and 26 million tonnes per year. the european union has a particular responsibility in this area, as it is one of the world's major fishing powers and the largest market. the european parliament has therefore supported a number of proposals concerning initiatives in international organisations, the strengthening of transparency and the eu's role in this area, as well as cooperation between member states and the fight against organised crime in order to help improve the problem of illegal fishing.
the european parliament's resolution documents in detail the string of barbaric human rights violations, including torture, rape and executions, which are systematically committed against iranian citizens by the current regime. i admire the cosmopolitan sophistication and cultural and political richness of iranian civilization, and i know that the repression and the bullying of the regime only reflect, deep down, the insecurity, fear, weakness and sense of illegitimacy of those who hold power in iran today and oppress the iranian people. the proof of this is the regime's refusal to cooperate with the un rapporteur and to allow him access to the victims of these atrocities. i believe that the european union must do everything it can to support, in an imaginative way, those who are courageously fighting for human rights and fundamental freedoms in iran. and it is in this context that it is particularly worrying and unacceptable that european companies may be providing the iranian authorities with technology to enable them to refine censorship. these companies will be exposed. we will do everything in this parliament to punish these companies in an exemplary and appropriate way.
mr president, with the few seconds i have, i shall simply remember a name and make an appeal. the name is mr abdul-reza soudbakhsh, a doctor and professor at tehran university, who visited and examined the victims of kahrizak prison, known to hold opponents of the iranian regime, and did not keep quiet about his conclusions that they had died as a result of acts of torture. meanwhile, mr. abdul-reza soudbakhsh himself was murdered. the appeal is as follows: the fact that we know that there are european companies that collaborate with the iranian regime - either by blocking the transmission of opposition tv broadcasts or by providing censorship software - is an insult to the memory of brave people like this iranian man. and we must tell the commission, which is here in this debate, that companies which collaborate in the violation of human rights should not receive a penny of european subsidies. it is possible to do this with the legal bases we already have. in fact, it is possible to do more. i do not understand how the commission can fine companies for breaching, for example, competition laws, but cannot fine european companies that smear the name of europe by collaborating in the violation of human rights. i would like to hear the commission's response to such an appeal, and i would like us all to join together to ensure that these companies do not receive a penny from the pockets of european citizens.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr alaa abdel fatah, on behalf of the green group. he was once jailed under mubarak for creating a blog aggregator that worked without censorship. when he left prison, his wife manal immediately said there was no reason to go back, and the two of them, he and she, who is also a tough blogger, started an opposition blog that is one of the most widely read in egypt, which they have also maintained since exile. when the revolution happened, they went back to egypt, they were in tahrir square, they gave their best. and after the revolution, they continued to have the same kind of surveillance with the new regime that they had before with the mubarak regime. and that's what alaa abdel fatah did very openly and that's what led the new military regime to imprison him on absolutely spurious charges and subject him to a military trial. his sister mona seif, who is the president of an association that calls for an end to military trials, not only for her brother, but for the 12,000 civilians who are imprisoned and subjected to military trials, is also another of these hard-nosed egyptians, as brave and admirable as all these egyptians who fought for freedom in egypt and who continue to fight. it is not just our duty to say that we are with them, that we do not abandon them and that we remember them here. but we must also do something else: abandon this complacency with the new military regime in egypt. the new military regime cannot be a kind of mubarak without mubarak. and for too long, we have been too patient, precisely because of the fear that... i mean, there have been accusations of religious intolerance, which the egyptian army has also been involved in, and here we are again falling into the old mistakes of europe, which is to make friends among the powerful in egypt to ensure peace among the minorities. our policy, which should have been in the past and which should be going forward, into the future, is zero tolerance for human rights violations, and that is what mrs ashton should be imposing going forward.
mr president, i have been a blogger for almost ten years, and i am a blogger because i live in a country which in 1974 got rid of dictatorship, censorship and military courts. i know from our experience that the most fundamental of the freedoms by which the genuineness of a democratic transition can be assessed is freedom of information and expression. if the interim military authorities in egypt do not respect these basic freedoms, as the cases of alaa abdel fatah and maikel nabil sanad and the more than 12 000 who have gone through the courts in recent months so dramatically demonstrate, then we must fear that there is a miserable betrayal underway in egypt of those who fought and died for democracy, justice and human rights in the various tahrir squares throughout egypt. we must send a very clear message from the high commissioner, the high representative and all the european authorities that this is not tolerable, that the european authorities and we in this parliament demand respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms from the egyptian authorities and the release of those who are in their dungeons at this time.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the chairman of my group in this parliament, mr joseph daul, who has asked me to take his place in this debate. i should like to begin by expressing my great satisfaction that, after the european parliament gave the green light, the european council is now preparing to sign the accession treaty with croatia. i commend the croatian prime minister for the political determination she has shown in leading her people to this historic result and i am sure that her political will will positively influence her european peers. as for the situation in the european union, we can say that the signals have changed from orange to red. the oecd is predicting a recession in europe in 2012. the sovereign wealth funds are finding fewer and fewer buyers. unemployment rates are reaching levels that are making our citizens, especially the young, desperate. faced with these challenges, the european union must at the same time act and decide on its governance. there has been a lot of talk lately about treaty reform, but as far as i know, it is not a treaty crisis but a debt crisis. the epp group therefore considers that the urgent need is to tackle national deficits by aiming at a budgetary balance once and for all and not just a 3% deficit. what is urgent is to restore its growth prospects by making the single market a reality. what is urgent is to trust the ecb to adopt a behaviour which is useful to our countries by allying itself with the international monetary fund. what is urgent is that eurobonds can be created, provided that the national budgetary effort is not only not slackened but strengthened. what is urgent is to listen to radek sikorski's call for action and to respect our commitments. the second pillar of european action must be the governance of the euro area, which we have been sorely lacking since the beginning of the euro, which explains the mistrust of the markets. its development is therefore the sine qua non of any crisis plan. governance means reducing budget deficits, fiscal convergence and, if possible, social convergence. this governance must be european. i am saying that it is not enough for it to be between two or even three countries, or even within the increasingly narrow circle of countries in the triple a. no, this governance must concern all the countries of the euro area, the euro area plus. it must be based on the community method, which means at least two things: first, it must be agreed not only by the council but also by the council and the two community institutions, the european parliament and the european commission. the second is that the only institution which can legitimately judge whether the new rules are being applied or not and, if necessary, take action before the european court of justice is the european commission. this governance, last but not least, must be democratic. what does that mean? neither more nor less than this parliament and the national parliaments, which are directly derived from universal suffrage, must be fully involved in the negotiations on the modalities of european governance and the decision-making process that will follow. this participation of elected representatives in decision-making is the basis of our system of the rule of law, the foundation of our parliamentary democracies. mr president, i will finish. while we are debating institutional reforms, the water is still rising - up to the chin for some, up to the knee for others - but the flood is now reaching the whole of the euro zone and is threatening to spread to other parts of the world. as the german finance minister says, we must act quickly. we must move quickly. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure)
i'll speak in portuguese. you spoke in french, i do not know if that means that you are concerned that we are aware of the serious problem that is being experienced in portugal today, with the implementation of this pact of genuine aggression against our country, portugal, which is also your country, and which is leading not only to a social disaster but also to an economic disaster, with a recession, as i said, already announced by the oecd, which could exceed three percentage points, being announced for next year. i ask you: - don't you think it's time to change policy?
i also reply in portuguese, but i have no problem using any of the european languages because they exist to be used and i am one of those who argue that all european citizens should speak more than one, more than two, if possible, three languages, so that everyone respects and knows everyone's situations. there is often no understanding because not everyone makes an effort to understand other cultures, but as i have this universalist perspective i also tell you something: do not come here to make portuguese politics because with me you have no chance. the answer? the portuguese voted in june, giving more than 80% to the countries that negotiated with the troika, which has more than 90% of the members and where the budget was approved today, in portugal, this restrictive budget, by more than 90% of the members.
enough of this road. when the diagnosis is wrong, the medication doesn't work. in the case of the euro zone, the successive remedies have brought it to the brink of death. the successive miracle solutions that have been proposed have also been discredited by the markets. the financial stability fund, the successive tightening of the stability and growth pact, the troika's revenues in the countries covered by a programme, blind discipline without growth, have generated a recessionary wave between fully interconnected economies which have thus been contaminated by bankruptcy and unemployment. in the hands of the markets, that is, the rating agencies and the speculators, governments fall one after the other and solvent countries become insolvent. amending the treaties now is another step in this disastrous trajectory, with an aggravating element: we risk destroying what remains of national sovereignty by putting countries in the hands of the european court of justice. no, there is no need to amend the treaties. in this emergency we are in, you have to make two decisions. first, a real agenda for sustained growth and cohesion must be put in place. where is agenda 2020? where's the reboot budget? where are the projects, the project bonds for the structural investments of europe? secondly, we need to protect sovereign debt. of course, eurobonds are necessary, but in this emergency we are in it is urgent that the european central bank, directly or indirectly, defend sovereign debt against speculators, not in a shameful way, but with a definite, determined position, as is the responsibility of any central bank defending its currency and the economy that supports it. this does not require any changes to the treaties, but political will and european conviction. we shall change the treaty when we have learned all the lessons of the present crisis - and there are many lessons to be learned - but this is certainly not the time.
the german house has already begun to be touched by the fire that chancellor merkel has started with her disastrous statements, and which she has had to swallow without, however, stopping burying europe more and more in the inability to cope with speculation on the markets. the escape to the front, which germany now wants to drag us into, is nonsense. it is political nonsense that will not stop the distrust in the markets, it will not stop the destruction of the euro. the commission's duty, commissioner, is not to go after it, but to stop this criminal insanity. what we need, in this distress, is for the european council to learn from the firemen, to announce that the ecb will function as a central bank, will therefore be the lender of last resort for our states, that we will mutualise debt, that we will try to harmonise taxation and declare the financial transaction tax to stop the drainage of resources to tax havens and to invest them in european policies that make the words solidarity and convergence into realities to support the euro.
we continue to see the crisis worsening at summit after summit, always with the promise of the best decisions and measures to strengthen confidence in the euro and the european economy, as commissioner rehn has just said, but in real life we are faced with the worsening of inequalities, unemployment, poverty, the path to economic recession and social disaster, while attacks on the sovereignty of the countries with the weakest economies, on the most basic principles of democracy, social and labour rights are intensifying. this is why frustration with the policies of the european union is growing and social struggles are intensifying in several member states. the measures they propose, in particular the revision of the treaties, are intended to hasten the concentration and centralisation of economic and political power, turning the peripheral countries into mere protectorates subject to genuine colonial relations. it is an unacceptable path which can only lead to the implosion of the euro zone and the european union itself.
the crisis in the euro area, including its expression in sovereign debt, has structural and other more cyclical causes. the first concerns the way in which the uneven development of capitalism, which is characteristic of the eu, is expressed; the asymmetric interdependence, which relegates the peripheral countries, with weaker economies, to a subordinate and unfavourable position in the process of the international division of labour. in this process, their production systems are dismantled and, as a result, they increase external dependence, miscellaneous deficits and external debt. the second concerns the conditions created for financial speculators, as other speculative bubbles were drying up or bursting, to focus on sovereign debt. the free movement of capital, tax havens, derivative financial products and the speculative practices associated with them, the absence of taxation of financial transactions, the role assigned to rating agencies - all this creates the framework which allows speculation on sovereign debts to make its way. summit after summit, debate after debate, these causes remain untouched. this is the fundamental question that has been avoided in this debate by both the commission and the majority of this parliament. worse, they take steps to deepen some of these causes.
on behalf of the s&d group. the eurozone does not have external debt problems like the united states, it has two fundamental problems: insufficient growth and growing internal imbalances, as the commission itself has identified in completing the analysis of the ten years of its operation. without policy options to counter these imbalances and this lack of growth, they will grow endlessly. one example: without the euro, germany's trade surpluses would be reduced by the revaluation of the mark; with the euro, they perpetuate themselves. but there is a price to pay. the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter is a good indication of the seriousness of the problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources. this unstoppable circle is very different from the description of virtuous on the one hand and sinners on the other that we have heard so far. the single austerity recipe only adds to the recession and these problems. the annual growth strategy which can now be integrated into the european semester can be very useful in solving these problems, but for that it will have to be shared with this parliament, in co-decision, and taken over by the national parliaments. the european semester must incorporate the results of the analysis of macroeconomic imbalances and all the other strategic documents, the strategy 2020, the employment strategy, the broad economic guidelines. that is what the pervenche bères report guarantees. perhaps with this framework, and i will finish in a moment, the recommendations under the stability and growth pact will gain more technical quality and more effectiveness.
in writing. we are living through a difficult period in european history. more than ever, we need a responsible analysis of the union's responses to this crisis, because the truth is that we are witnessing today an increase in inequalities, macroeconomic and financial imbalances and increasingly evident differences in competitiveness. in this sense, the next european council must realise the importance of strengthening economic coordination with a view to stability, growth and employment and of enabling more robust action by the european central bank. we know the monetary concerns that the union has today and the need to protect the euro, but we cannot stop there, we need an economic policy for the european union. it is necessary to inject liquidity into the economy as soon as possible, as businesses are hungry for finance, which is vital to halt the recession and return growth and jobs. on the other hand, the central role of the european parliament in the codecision process is necessary to facilitate the emergence of a united vision of the union and to increase the democratic legitimacy of the decisions that are being taken, in many cases abusive, by a duunvirate in the present context.
mr president, i am happy to acknowledge that, with respect to the european instrument for democracy and human rights, we already have a procedure developed between us and the commission that does allow for scrutiny. we need to develop procedures that are flexible and publicised, specifically by the eu delegations who should work more on the ground with human rights defenders, civil society organisations, the media and so on. this parliament needs to be kept abreast of the implementation of projects while ensuring protection for the persons and organisations that are supposed to be assisted by this instrument. we need as well to explore more effective ways to help media escape and counter censorship, particularly internet censorship. let me now turn to the negotiating procedures regarding the delegated acts, and in particular in terms of the dci instrument. i join colleagues who deplore the blackmail tactics used by the council and the commission to try to make this parliament relinquish the powers that were conferred on it by article 290 of the lisbon treaty. these are powers that this parliament cannot abandon; it is an absolute must to exercise democratic control of an instrument – the dci – with tremendous potential for development and empowerment of people worldwide. we do not accept those tactics, particularly the threat of defaulting on the commitments made under the banana accompanying measures. this will not work; the parliament will not relinquish such powers.
the first single market forum, the idea of which stems from the grech report, was held in krakow, and was rich in content and fruitful in the debate conducted by the polish presidency with european, national, regional and local authorities and civil society. we have a roadmap, outlined in the commission's communication of 12 april, with the 12 levers. the law needs to be passed, as does the strategy for the other 38 priorities identified in the single market act. for there to be a market, there must be trust. the confidence of citizens and consumers cannot be taken for granted. it needs to be stimulated, fed. the single market is not just a buying and selling operation. it involves horizontal policies such as health, social and consumer protection, labour law, the environment and sustainable development. the single market forum should therefore become a flagship event of the european union, with an annual event and a diverse and increasingly participatory audience.
i think we are in a period of policy balancing, of political crises of austerity, which have affected so many countries, and also of so-called structural reforms. it's in this context that i think we can't help but see how they've generated so much social upheaval. and they have generated social upheaval not only in the countries with the greatest difficulties, in the countries of the south, not only in the so-called pigs, but also in other contexts in europe. just last week we had the biggest general strike ever in portugal, both in the public and private sectors, a strike that took to the streets. but if we look at what happened today in the united kingdom, we see that we are witnessing the biggest strike ever, especially if we take into account that people took to the streets as they did in portugal. we expect a big demonstration in brussels on friday. what this proves, mr president, and what the strikes and the people taking to the streets prove, is that the causes and the problems we have faced are common and that is why the reaction is also common.
following the general strike of november 24, this morning in portugal, thousands of people called by the cgtp and other trade union and social organizations took to the sea, in front of the assembly of the republic, in lisbon, just reasons for protesting against the state budget for 2012, which was being discussed in parliament and which was to be approved by the majority, psd and cds, with the committed abstention of the socialist party. they protested against attacks on workers' rights and wages, notably by the assault on christmas and holiday allowances and by increasing the working week to two and a half hours per week, against the closure of health services, against the increase in user charges and always in defence of public services. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and calls for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. the next big day will be the week of struggle that the cgtp has called for the period between 12 and 17 december.
the crisis in the european union is spreading to all member states, reaching unbelievable proportions. we are witnessing chaos in the financial markets and the growing inability to secure the essential financing for the activities of our smes, even those which are healthy, leading them to despair, bankruptcy, unemployment. it's a spiral that feeds the recession and is destroying the economy and society. no one denies the need for strict budgetary discipline, deep restructuring and more economic governance, but these are necessary conditions which, in the short term, are no longer sufficient to counteract the deterioration taking place in the union. and while it is true that policies are needed to stimulate employment and growth, without which we will never be able to control sovereign debts, the central question today is to ensure the financing of our companies and our economies, without which the union will be in a hurry. that is why we need strong and firm action by the european central bank today more than ever, more than the revision of the treaties.
for the gue/ngl group we are here today, all united around a resolution with a very important set of demands in terms of intervention. we are talking about world hiv/aids day and this assessment of the 2009 resolution and communication is key. it is essential precisely because of things already mentioned. we repeat ourselves because, unfortunately, there's still room for repetition, which means there's a lot to do. there are many new cases diagnosed every year in europe and the european economic area: the 2010 report says there are over 25,000 new cases. if we look at the neighboring countries, we're talking about over 100,000 new cases. and if we think that some things can't get worse, they can always get worse. one of the issues i want to make very clear here has to do with the divestment that has been made in the health sector as a result of the economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing at the moment. this divestment has seriously affected areas that are central to the fight against hiv/aids. so i think, commissioner, that the commission has a key role to play here in asking the member states to fulfil their obligations in these areas. a second issue also has to do with the increase in discrimination, also evidenced by the economic and social crisis, discrimination against workers who have lost their jobs because of being carriers of this virus. that is why prevention, treatment and care must be the same for everyone regardless of sex, age, regardless of where they live. i hope that we can implement these measures with the support of the commissioner.
welcome to this parliament, mr draghi. we are living in special and dramatic circumstances, and they require specific and urgent measures. the spiral between the debt of the states and the debt of the banks has to be broken, but at this moment the priority is to defend the states, to ensure that the countries of the euro zone and the euro itself are not destroyed by the rating agencies and the speculators. in the report we are going to adopt, tremosa i balcells, we have proposals to rethink the architecture of the euro area, to create eurobonds and a european treasury, but all this takes time. we are talking about an emergency at the moment and the only solution lies in the hands of the european central bank. technically, the european central bank knows what needs to be done. today, he must not be inhibited in his speech and action by limited interpretations of his mandate. its mandate is to safeguard the euro, not to deal with inflation. at a time like this there is no doubt: saving the euro and doing what is necessary is what this parliament and the citizens expect from the european central bank. good luck and courage, mr draghi.
the rapporteur. - first of all, let me thank all those who have worked with me on the budgets of parliament and the other institutions. i thank the political groups and the shadow rapporteurs for their work, i thank them for the excellent cooperation, the excellent work, the result and the work we have done with the commission and the council presidency. i would also like to stress the excellent cooperation and work we have had with parliament's bureau, the support of the secretariat of the committee on budgets. i would like to highlight the cooperation of the epp staff and, in particular, the excellent technical work of the adviser, nicole witts. i also note the rigorous work that all the institutions have done in their administrative budgets, despite the costs of croatia's accession, the entry of 18 new members, the existence of new institutions, the consolidation of others, such as the european external action service, the new tasks and competences. despite all this, the updating of the administrative and operating budgets of all the institutions of the european union is only 1.3%. in the face of inflation and new commitments, this has only been possible through strict, efficient management and structural changes. for 2012, the administrative budget of the institutions has a negative growth. i welcome the results of the conciliation meeting on friday, 18 november, on the budgets of the european parliament and the other institutions. the council approved the european parliament's proposal in its entirety on the administrative and operating expenditure of all the european institutions, recognising the rigour and fairness of our proposal. the rigorous work, the austerity and the balance between budget cuts on the one hand and the minimum necessary for the proper functioning of each institution on the other have paid off. there's one thing you should always remember. all administrative and operating expenditure of all the institutions of the european union corresponds to less than 6% of the budget of the european union. this means that more than 94% of the union budget is for investment. it should also be remembered that the budget of the european union, although it represents only 1% of the union's gross domestic product, has a major leverage effect, an added value, allowing for coordinated solidarity. that is why this budget should be strengthened, especially in times of crisis like this. i therefore welcome the increase in funds for economic growth, training, research and youth, and i also express the council's concern and concern: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the 2012 draft budget will not meet the needs. my opinion differs from commissioner lewandowski's. in research, ecological sustainability, territorial cohesion and social solidarity, this budget has no power to compensate for or correct the national austerity policies that are being pursued across europe. this is a budget which does not recognise europe's return to recession, unemployment and widespread insecurity among the younger generations. a budget of less than 1% of gdp, really less than in 2011, is a minimal budget for a minimal europe. it's business as usual. to mitigate this evidence, the proposal decided to add or increase the divergence between commitments and payments. in other words, it covers up a bad budget with a bad budgetary practice. alternatively, negative investment priorities could have been defined more clearly, freeing up resources for positive ones, but in this budget, expenditure on security and military research is being increased, frontex is being strengthened, funds are being increased for the large multinationals, export support is being maintained which is ruinous for the developing countries. i conclude by saying that schizophrenia has taken over. we all talk about more and better europe, but in the end we always decide on less europe.
the negotiating process with the council has brought us the expected result: what was already short, very short, has been cut again. the usual ritual will follow: self-styled europeans of various shades, who here clap their hands at the chest saying that a strong budget is important for growth and development, are preparing, without blushing, to vote in favour of this proposal. a final proposal that is less than 1% of the community's gross income and that will represent a decrease in the community budget in real terms compared to the previous year. at the same time as tightening the noose on instruments such as the stability pact, which freeze or even deepen inequalities between member states, they reduce to almost nothing the redistributive function of the budget, which would be essential to reduce these inequalities. all this is greatly aggravated by the interventions in the countries which are victims of the imf and the european union programmes. more than dead letter in the treaties, the claimed cohesion is thus increasingly a big lie. it is also against this great lie that a current of protest and struggle is growing outside europe.
i welcome the agreement reached at the conciliation meeting where the council unanimously adopted the final draft budget for 2012. i would also point out that the council has agreed to parliament's proposal to use the eur 200 million from the flexibility instrument. the provision of this eur 200 million was in response to parliament's concern to promote competitiveness. within the priority areas of the eu budget for 2012, i would like to mention a few examples. these are the entrepreneurship programme, innovation, research in smes, erasmus mundus and scientific research in the field of energy.
in writing. − i support this report because it is important to adequately finance the various sub-headings of strategy 2020 because of their importance for the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the eu 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy, in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow for the financing of specifically identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the limits of the ceilings available under one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. in the 2012 budget, the ceilings for headings 1a and 4 need to be exceeded and the commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − as the rapporteur points out, the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of specifically identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. it has been found that for the 2012 budget it will be necessary to go beyond the ceilings for heading 1a (eu 2020 strategy) and 4 (european neighbourhood instrument). the importance of both calls for this reinforcement, without which the financing of what is considered a priority by the eu could be called into question, thus calling into question its capacity for action and the consequence of its policies.
in writing. - the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the eu 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy, in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. this mobilisation is intended to reinforce two key areas of eu policy, the eu 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood instrument, for which expenditure exceeds the ceilings available under the multiannual financial framework. the amounts to be mobilised are as follows: eur 30,75 million for the eu 2020 strategy under heading 1a and eur 208,67 million for the european neighbourhood instrument under heading 4. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the economic and financial crisis in the european union requires us all to take greater responsibility for not undermining the expectations that citizens have of the european institutions.
in writing. - we did not vote in favour of this report because for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the 2012 budget), the flexibility instrument is used to make available an amount of eur 50 million in commitment appropriations in heading 1a and eur 150 million in commitment appropriations in heading 4. this amount will be used to complement the financing of eur 50 million for the europe 2020 strategy under heading 1a and eur 150 million for the european neighbourhood policy under heading 4. the conciliation committee convened for the 2012 budget agreed to mobilise the flexibility instrument for a total amount of eur 200 million over and above the ceilings set out in headings 1a and 4 in the terms referred to above, when, at a minimum, it should have switched the amounts to benefit more employment, especially in a period of severe social crisis in several countries of the european union.
in writing. - i agree with the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to release funds to address shortcomings of the order of eur 30.75 million for the eu 2020 strategy in heading 1a and eur 208.67 million for the european neighbourhood instrument in heading 4.
in writing. − this report concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the eu 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy, in accordance with point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. that interinstitutional agreement provides for the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to allow the financing of specifically identified expenditure which cannot be financed within the available ceilings of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament has been asked for the necessary authorization to exceed the ceilings for the abovementioned headings. i voted in favour of the amendment, given the need to go beyond those limits.
in writing. − according to the rapporteur, eur 30.75 million is needed in the 2012 budget for the eu 2020 strategy (heading 1) and eur 208.67 million for the european neighbourhood instrument (heading 4). to that end, recourse should be had to the flexibility instrument, based on the legal basis in the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. in view of the positive preliminary assessment made by the committee on budgets, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of may 2006, the european commission proposes, for the eu budget for 2012, the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for heading 1a, on competitiveness for growth and jobs, and for heading 4, on the eu as a global player, as it is imperative to exceed the ceilings of both headings. the amounts to be mobilised correspond to eur 30,75 million for the eu 2020 objectives and eur 208,67 million for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. both these issues, in their different dimensions, are of paramount importance to the eu. first, it is essential to take action and allocate the necessary funding to transform the eu into a smart, inclusive and sustainable economy by reducing unemployment, increasing productivity and strengthening social cohesion. this requires the implementation of the seven eu2020 flagship initiatives. in the area of eu external action, and after the arab spring revolutions, it is essential that the eu supports the democratic transition processes in these countries and at the same time creates the necessary measures for the economic and social development of the populations, whose expectations are now extremely high.
in writing. − i approve this joint text, as the european parliament's main concerns regarding the 2012 budget are reflected in this final document which was the result of intensive negotiation and resulted in the joint text approved by the conciliation committee. the council's initial proposal would jeopardise the implementation of eu policies in the field. in general, the eu needs to strengthen its budgets and it is important that this should be done in the future and, as soon as possible, in the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement reached at the conciliation meeting where the council unanimously adopted the final draft budget for 2012. i would also point out that the council has agreed to parliament's proposal, which proposes to use an amount of eur 200 million from the flexibility instrument. the provision of this eur 200 million is in response to the european parliament's concern to promote competitiveness and aims to boost growth and employment as a way of combating the economic crisis. within the priority areas of the eu budget, i would like to mention a few examples, namely the programme for entrepreneurship and innovation, erasmus mundus and research in the field of energy and smes.
in writing. - as i said earlier, i believe that the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 sought to take account of the crisis we are experiencing, without giving in to easy populisms. that is why i am voting today in favour of the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee. i congratulate my colleague josé manuel fernandes on his work on this delicate dossier.
in writing. − the agreement on the 2012 eu budget provides for a 1.86% increase in payments compared to 2011, which means a reduction in real terms. despite parliament's more ambitious proposal, the final agreement confirms the council's proposal, which limits the total volume of payments to 0.98% of the gross national income of the member states. in the very serious period of the european union's existence, when the internal divisions in the euro area and the lack of growth and employment threaten to destroy the single currency itself, this european budget should, at least in symbolic terms, send a message of confidence to the citizens and provide a stimulus (even if limited) to the economic recovery, which would compensate for the multiplicity of recessionary policies imposed at the level of several member states. a strategic reinforcement was needed to promote spatial and social cohesion within the union and thus to restore citizens' confidence in the european project. the absence of this sign justifies my negative vote. i would like to express my appreciation, however, for the work done by the colleagues involved in this difficult negotiation, who, while failing to reverse the essential question expressed above, have substantially improved the initial proposal.
in writing. − with this report, the european parliament gives its final approval to the eu's general budget for the financial year 2012, endorsing the joint text resulting from the negotiations with the council. the shortcomings of the previous draft budget are now being compounded by further cuts, which are bringing the community budget for 2012 to less than 1% of community gni (0.98%). the €129.088 billion (in payments) will represent a reduction in real terms of the eu budget. we are thus faced with a clear surrender to the impositions of the more powerful countries and the interests they defend, at the expense of the countries with weaker economies, by making them bear the economic and social costs of the policies that led us to the crisis. these are policies and guidelines which are at the heart of the process of european capitalist integration and which have been deepened rather than corrected as was necessary. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a lie propagated by the right wing to the social democrats - the very people who gave their consent to this budget. for our part, we continue to push for policies that promote effective cohesion, social justice, employment, solidarity and cooperation - and of course, adequate budgetary support.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of the conciliation on my area of responsibility - administrative and operational expenditure of the institutions of the european union - as the council accepted my proposal in its entirety. i would remind you that the administrative expenditure of all the institutions accounts for less than 6% of the eu budget. the agreement between the european parliament and the council was reached on 18 november after a conciliation meeting lasting more than 16 and a half hours. i would stress that the ep's priorities for promoting economic growth and youth have been taken into account. in this connection, heading 1a competitiveness for growth and jobs was reinforced by eur 50 million, in addition to the margin through the flexibility instrument. in the final 2012 eu budget proposal, a volume of eur 129,1 million for payments and a volume of eur 147,2 million for commitment expenditure were agreed. the council unanimously approved the final draft budget for 2012, which is surprising given that the united kingdom, sweden, the netherlands, denmark and finland voted against it at its first reading.
in writing. − in this report, the european parliament gives its final approval to the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, giving its assent to the joint text drawn up by the conciliation committee and comprising the list of budget lines unchanged in relation to the draft budget and the council's position. it also includes the summary of the amounts by category of the financial framework, the amounts of all budget lines and the consolidated document indicating the amounts and the final text of all lines amended during the conciliation on the 2012 budgetary procedure. we rejected this budget because it follows the neoliberal, militarist and federalist policies of the european union and does not respond in any way to the needs of the people. on the contrary, it accentuates the differences and ignores the consequences of the serious crisis of capitalism. policies promoting social justice, employment, decent living conditions, solidarity and cooperation are urgently needed if the general budget of the european union is to be an added value for the people.
in writing. − i welcome the success of the negotiations in the conciliation committee in the framework of the 2012 budgetary procedure. this budget is very important for the economic future of the eu.
in writing. − by this legislative resolution, the european parliament has approved the institutions' joint text on the 2012 budgetary procedure, which was previously approved by the conciliation committee. on the basis of the report of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − on the 2012 eu budget, the conciliation committee set up in the meantime to overcome the deadlock reached a draft global agreement, the result of an agreement between the representatives of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the door was thus opened for the final adoption of the 2012 budget. in view of the agreement reached, i voted in favour of confirming the joint agreement and joint declarations submitted by the three institutions.
in writing. − the european institutions have agreed the budget figures for the 2012 financial year, focusing their priority of action on economic growth and resolving the financial crisis. in addition to these priorities, i think it is important to stress that the european institutions have agreed to increase the budget heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs) by eur 50 million, thus making more money available to boost programmes to support enterprises and young people. finally, i believe that the option of channelling eur 38 million from the rural development fund to the european social fund (section 3.2 of the budget) is a good one, which shows that the european union continues to give priority to social cohesion.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is in line with what was established by the conciliation committee, but i deeply regret the climate of mistrust that prevailed during the negotiations between the commission and the member states as regards the level of additional payment appropriations needed in 2011 for the commission to be able to meet the union's legal obligations.
in writing. − having regard to the report of the committee on budgets and to the fact that parliament repeatedly stressed throughout the 2011 budgetary procedure that the overall level of payments advocated by the council and adopted for the financial year 2011 was insufficient and would not allow the clearly agreed needs to be met, i voted in favour of the council's position on draft amending budget no 6/2011 without amendments, declaring amending budget no 6/2011 definitively adopted, and i agree to its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 6/2011 as i believe that it respects the agreement reached by the conciliation committee. i regret, however, that the council's approach is contrary to the processes of the european semester and the improvement of european economic governance.
in writing. − amending budget 6/2011, as presented by the commission, aims to strengthen several areas, such as own resources, greece, the european social fund, palestine and to create a new budget line for the integrated maritime policy. i share the rapporteur's concerns and hope that parliament will not ignore its role as budgetary authority and will continue to press for the rigour and clarity of european accounts.
in writing. - this amending budget is intended, in particular, to enable the eu to meet its commitments under the cohesion policy. the commission estimates that for 2011, and to meet commitments already made, the european social fund needs an additional eur 1.5 billion, while research needs an additional eur 142 million. to meet this need of eur 1 642 million, the commission presented amending budget no 6 by reallocating funds, and thus within the budgetary limits. the budget for heading 1 is €697 million, and for heading 2, more specifically rural development, €395 million. this leaves €550 million short. that is why this amending budget is necessary. however, the member states did not agree to these amounts and approved only eur 200 million for this purpose, even with the votes against from the united kingdom and the netherlands. there is no record of the council calling into question the figures presented by the commission. i also note that the council said it had other figures but never presented them!
in writing. - the draft amending budget proposes to increase commitment appropriations by eur 113.4 million under heading 4, which, among other things, finances assistance to palestine, the peace process and unrwa. we consider this increase in appropriations to be important and welcome, and a potential contribution to the peace process in the current context facing the palestinian people. the budgetary increase under this heading is accompanied by the appropriation necessary for the accompanying measures for the banana sector (mab). the necessary funds in both cases are obtained from the reallocation of appropriations not used for macrofinancial assistance. this amending budget for the financial year 2011 forms part of the agreement reached by the conciliation committee on the budget for the financial year 2012. we are not immune to some reservations on our part as to how this money will be used, and we are aware of our criticism of the insufficiency of the money for the mabs, but we believe that there are positive aspects to this proposal which should prevail. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - this draft budget proposes to increase commitment appropriations by eur 113.4 million under heading 4, which finances, among other things, assistance to palestine, the peace process and unrwa. we consider this increase in appropriations to be very important as an aid to the peace process and to the palestinian people. the reinforcements under heading 4 for financial assistance to palestine, the peace process and unrwa, as well as for the accompanying measures for the banana sector, are reallocated from unused appropriations for macro-financial assistance and are part of the agreement reached by the conciliation committee on the budget for the financial year 2012. although we have some doubts about how this money will be used, there are very positive aspects, particularly those for palestine, for which we voted in favour.
in writing. - this draft amending budget is important in order to deal with budgetary shortcomings in the integrated maritime policy, greece, the esf and palestine. we are talking about funds of the order of eur 113.4 million to be channelled into these headings.
in writing. − by this legislative resolution, the european parliament has approved the institutions' joint text on draft amending budget no 6/2011 of the european union for the financial year 2011, previously approved by the conciliation committee. on the basis of the report of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee and ascertaining that amending budget no 6/2011, as amended by the council, reflects the agreement reached by the conciliation committee, which also covers the budget for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 6/2011 to the 2011 general budget initially sought to increase the appropriations for commitments in categories 1 and 4 by eur 3.25 million and eur 113.4 million respectively, and to increase the payment appropriations for category 1 by eur 550.3 million. however, the council amended the proposal, reducing the total amount of the increase in appropriations to 200 million, as a result of the agreement reached by the conciliation committee on the 2012 budget. although i regret the council's attitude of mistrust towards parliament in the context of the negotiations, which the rapporteur notes, i voted in favour.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 6/2011 has several objectives: to increase payments under headings 1a and 1b, to increase commitments for palestine and unrwa, to revise the increase in own resources revenue, to increase the esf theme and to create a new budget line for the integrated maritime policy. it is an amending budget which is already closely linked to the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2012 and which, in view of the current needs for 2011 and its budget which is manifestly insufficient for all the commitments entered into and the present needs, should be adopted.
in writing. - i approve this report. we must use this fund for emergency cases like this, especially considering that portugal is currently going through serious financial difficulties and that aid to the phenomenon of unemployment is essential.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of significant changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs overnight. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 500 000 from the egf for portugal to support workers made redundant by the companies kromberg & schubert, lear and leoni, which are active in the automotive sector in the northern and central regions of the country.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by major structural changes in world trade patterns. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application feg/2011/005 pt/norte-centro automotive, portugal).
in writing. - given the various repercussions portugal has been suffering from its fragile exposure to the financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns, i support this report which will provide vital temporary and ad hoc assistance to unemployed workers. i also believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for portugal, totalling eur 1 518.465, will be used to this end. this support for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis is essential to safeguard 726 redundancies, which occurred in 3 companies in division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers). of the package of measures proposed by the commission, i would like to highlight two: vocational guidance (information and profiling sessions to give guidance on the steps to be taken in returning to work) and vocational training programmes, where workers will receive the training most appropriate to their educational and skill levels, designed to update skills, which are becoming increasingly important in a context of increasing competitiveness in a more globalised world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the mobilisation of eur 1.5 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund for portugal to support 726 workers made redundant in three companies operating in the automotive sector in the northern and central regions of the country. i consider this request to be relevant, since the closure of the companies in question was due to the decline in demand caused by the crisis and the relocation of production units to morocco.
in writing. the automotive sector in the european union has been particularly affected by the phenomenon of globalisation. unfortunately, portugal has not escaped this trend. this resolution concerns 726 unemployed workers in firms in this sector in the north and centre of the country. i hope that the additional support provided by the fund will help to alleviate the personal dramas of the workers made redundant and to help them to be integrated into the labour market, and that the aid provided will be mobilised as quickly as possible in order to be as effective as possible.
in writing. - another request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) by portugal. a few hundred more workers were made redundant following the closure of three automobile companies in the north and centre of the country (kromberg & schubert portugal, lda., lear and leoni), aggravating the social drama that unemployment now constitutes in these regions. this is another consequence of the structural policies of the eu and of successive portuguese governments which have promoted the dismantling of important components of the country's industrial sector, leaving it more exposed to the free will of multinationals which act solely according to the old, natural, well-known and only criterion: that of maximising profit. it is regrettable that the european commission has not taken all the necessary measures to defend these jobs, as we have proposed on several occasions, by taking measures to put an end to this genuine bedouin strategy of these multinationals. we would once again stress the injustice of the fund's financing criteria requiring a high co-financing rate from the member states (35% of the overall amount provided), which makes it difficult for countries with weaker financial conditions to apply.
in writing. − the eu is a space of solidarity, and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of that. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf, which is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies, is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to portugal which submitted a request for assistance in a case involving 726 workers made redundant, all potential beneficiaries of assistance, in three enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers) in the nuts ii regions north (pt11) and central (pt16).
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, the european globalisation adjustment fund shall be mobilised to provide the portuguese case with an amount of eur 1 518,465 in commitment and payment appropriations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial assistance mechanism is fully operational.
in writing. − as part of the implementation of the 2011 budget, an application was submitted for the 22nd time for the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to support workers who, as a result of relocation due to the phenomenon of global competition in the companies where they work, are in a highly fragile situation. in this case, in which portugal requested assistance from the fund, a total of 726 cases of dismissal by three firms in the north and central regions are known to have occurred during a reference period of four months. in fact, all the conditions for the fund's intervention, which allows the mobilisation of up to eur 500 million per year, have been fulfilled. i therefore voted in favour, hoping that this would alleviate the difficulties of those who have been deeply affected by recent events.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. portugal submitted an application to mobilise the egf in order to provide support for the 726 workers made redundant in three car component companies located in the north and central regions, namely kromberg & schubert (guimarães), lear (guarda) and leoni (viana do castelo). european support, amounting to eur 1.5 million, represents 65% of the total cost of the programme and is intended to provide vocational guidance, recognition, validation and certification of skills, vocational training and support for job creation or business creation.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking account of eu law, greek law and the arguments put forward in the text concerning the facts which led to this procedure.
in writing. the report, drawn up by tadeusz zwiefka, concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the greek mep georgios toussas, following the letter from the judge of the court of first instance of piraeus, athens, greece. the prosecutor's office accuses the mep of having embezzled more than €147,000, along with eight other people, as manager of the merchant navy seamen's pension fund. georgios toussas, at his hearing before the committee on legal affairs, claimed that this accusation took the form of political persecution, which was not confirmed by the said committee. in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs and whilst all the accused are considered innocent until the sentence has been passed, i am voting in favour of this proposal to waive the parliamentary immunity of georgios toussas, as it is essential for the credibility of the ep that there is no corporatism whatsoever among us.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of a member of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in the present case, the court of first instance of piraeus, section 7, requested the waiver of the immunity of georgios toussas, member of the european parliament, in order to allow him to open criminal proceedings initiated following instructions issued by the public prosecutor's office of the court of first instance of piraeus, concerning an alleged breach of trust involving damages exceeding eur 147 000 (article 390 of the greek criminal code and article 1 of law 1608/1950) as well as a judicial inquiry (articles 246, 248 and 250 of the greek code of criminal procedure). the judge intends to summon georgios toussas to testify as a defendant in this case and to respond to the above-mentioned charge, pursuant to articles 270, 271 and 273 of the greek code of criminal procedure. it is therefore advisable to recommend that parliamentary immunity be waived in this case, hence my vote.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr georgios toussas. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has taken a position on the matter and unanimously adopted a report in which it decided to waive parliamentary immunity. indeed, it was considered that there was no basis for the allegation of fumus persecutionis in the present case.
in writing. − the request for the waiver of parliamentary immunity was requested by the greek court of first instance in order to initiate a judicial procedure concerning the alleged breach of confidence, with evidence of fraud. this type of procedure is in accordance with the rules laid down in the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the member stated in the committee on legal affairs that this case was a political persecution, a fact for which the committee found no evidence. that is why, in the light of this report, i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. the report, drawn up by bernhard rapkay, deals with the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of italian mep luigi de magistris. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. bagnoliafutura spa accuses the member of parliament of posting on its website statements blaming it for delays and waste of public funds, for inaction and inefficiency, and for engaging in an activity which it classifies as a combination of politics and delinquency. lugi de magistris defended himself by arguing that he had disseminated information relating to a written question to the european commission concerning irregularities found by the commission and the alleged waste of public funds. the facts of the case show that the information published by luigi de magistris has a direct and obvious link with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament and, having regard to article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i am voting in favour of the defence of luigi de magistris's privileges and immunities.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of a member of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. the request by luigi de magistris concerns a summons against him before the court of naples on behalf of bagnolifutura spa, a company established in naples with activities in the fields of soil design and decontamination, relating to press releases which he has authored and which are published on his website. the notices in question were published on the website of luigi de magistris at a time when he was a member of the european parliament following the 2009 european elections. those press releases by luigi de magistris disclosed information relating to a supplementary written question to the european commission, in which he requested additional information on irregularities found by the commission in may 2009 in the field of public procurement. since luigi de magistris also requested additional information on the alleged waste of public funds in the naples area, where the activities of the company bagnolifutura are carried out, by publishing those press releases, luigi de magistris was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i hereby agree to uphold the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of luigi de magistris. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has taken a position on the matter and unanimously adopted a report in which it decided not to waive parliamentary immunity. it was considered that mr de magistris was in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament when he made the statements which gave rise to the criminal proceedings. the attempt to prevent members of the european parliament from expressing their views on matters of public interest by instituting legal proceedings is not acceptable in a democratic society. i voted in favour of defending the freedom of expression of members in the exercise of their duties and defending the interest of the european parliament as an institution.
in writing. - i support this report, and stress the undeniable need for additional eu measures, adapting existing regulations to the requirements of the current financial crisis.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 did not define the financial assistance granted by member states to beneficiaries as being reimbursable or non-reimbursable. in order to clarify the doubts regarding the eligibility of certain types of support, in august 2011 the european commission (ec) presented the proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering, clarifying the eligibility of repayable assistance and defining the information obligations in the field of financial instruments. this report will enable member states to grant support to the various entities on the type of repayable aid, allowing the structural funds to be used several times throughout the programming period. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering, because i agree with the general objective of the proposal and believe that most of its elements are beyond doubt. i also agree that legal clarity and certainty on repayable aid and financial engineering instruments should be safeguarded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i think it is a good thing that, in the current crisis, some additional flexibility is being introduced in the use of the structural funds. in this sense, i believe that the commission's proposal is a step in the right direction in allowing some of these funds to be used to co-finance repayable aid.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 defines the different types of assistance that may be provided by way of structural fund contributions. the proposal we are adopting today seeks to amend this regulation to incorporate into its text a widely established practice of co-financing repayable aid with the structural funds. it also confirmed that the provisions on large projects, revenue-generating projects and the sustainability of operations do not apply to financial engineering instruments. this is a clarifying proposal which improves legal certainty and security.
in writing. - colleague danuta maria hübner has presented us with a report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering. good administrative and financial practices, when they promote results at the level of excellence, should lead to the adoption of innovative methodologies and reforming regulations which, although adopted with the best of intentions, do not always meet the objectives for which they were created. the commission proposal under examination aims to clarify, following the opinions of the european court of auditors, the legality of a practice introduced in the 2000-06 programming period under regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 but in breach of regulation (ec) no 1083/2006. it is therefore imperative that the new regulation should include, among the financial engineering instruments, the repayable aid which proved extremely positive in the previous community framework.
in writing. - this report deals with the amendment of a regulation which does not provide for whether aid from the structural funds can be reimbursed or not. this amendment introduces the concept of a repayable grant, as a direct financial contribution by way of a donation, which may be fully or partially reimbursable and interest-free. this makes it possible for the structural funds to finance operational expenditure, including through contributions to repayable grants, and clarifies that such grants, which are reimbursable to the body granting the support, or to another competent public authority in the member state, must be kept in a separate account and reused for the same purposes or in line with the objectives of the operational programme. the commission proposal also lays down the obligations to provide information and to provide appropriate follow-up in the field of financial engineering instruments. the rapporteur proposes, as seems appropriate, to accept the general objectives of the commission proposal, although restricting the additional information obligations of the member states.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 defines the different types of assistance that may be provided by way of structural fund contributions. member states introduced these arrangements in the 2000-2006 programming period by creating specific funds and granting aid reimbursable by other instruments. on the contrary, council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not define aid as repayable or non-repayable. the repayable aid is apparently not covered by that regulation. however, member states continued to use this type of aid, thanks to the good experience of the previous programming period. the commission itself approved programming documents containing descriptions of the schemes in question. it is therefore necessary to provide in regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 that the structural funds may co-finance repayable aid. the aim is therefore to make an established practice legally possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's position adopted at first reading on 1 december 2011 with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the previous legislation on repayable assistance, financial engineering and certain provisions on declaration of expenditure. i did so because the general objective of the proposal is correct and most of its elements are beyond doubt.
in writing. − the proposal, which aims to amend council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering, aims to clarify that the structural funds can co-finance repayable assistance. this is a practice which has been followed by european legal practitioners and this amendment is justified in that it is positive for customary law and therefore offers advantages in terms of the familiarity of union law. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 does not define the financial assistance granted by member states to beneficiaries as being reimbursable or non-reimbursable, and there are doubts as to the eligibility of some types of support to be granted. this is all the more important when, in the current programming period, several member states have continued to use the non-repayable financial aid modality. in august 2011, the european commission (ec) presented the proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards repayable assistance and financial engineering, clarifying the eligibility of repayable assistance and defining information obligations in the field of financial instruments. i agree with this report, because i think it is good that the member states give support to the most diverse entities on the type of reimbursable aid, and can thus take advantage of the structural funds several times throughout the programming period.
in writing. − i approve this report and all necessary and exceptional measures to support member states in difficulty in coping with the current financial crisis. the crisis is now spreading to all the member states and is reaching levels that were unimaginable until very recently. we need policies to stimulate investment that leads to growth and employment, without which we will never be able to control sovereign debt. however, in the present situation of lack of liquidity in the banks and public finances of the member states involved, only the european funds can promote such investment. but with weakened public finances, the absorption capacity of funds is reduced, so the reduction now introduced in national co-financing needs will make a valuable contribution to improving the socio-economic and financial situations in these countries.
in writing. − in august 2011, the european commission (ec) presented the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions relating to the financial management of certain member states affected or threatened by serious difficulties in financial stability, namely greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania. eur 629 million will be made available to portugal, which represents an advance on the financial amount of cohesion policy for the period 2007-13. the increase of 10 percentage points in the co-financing rate will benefit portugal as this increase will help inject money into the national economy, help the business fabric, especially smes, and contribute to job creation. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − in the current economic and financial crisis, it is important to ensure the proper implementation of cohesion policy programmes as an instrument for injecting funds into the economy. however, the implementation of the programmes is a problem, especially for the member states most affected by the crisis and which have received financial assistance under the emff. i welcome the commission's proposal to make payments to these countries while they are still benefiting from the support mechanisms, without changing the total allocation of cohesion policy for the period 2007-13. this will provide additional financial resources to member states at this critical juncture and facilitate the continued implementation of programmes on the ground.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis and the economic recession that the world and europe are experiencing have led to a deterioration of financial, economic and social conditions in several member states, including portugal, leading to a reduction in the financial resources available for financing public investments. i welcome the european commission's proposal to provide additional financial assistance through cohesion policy to member states which are currently facing serious difficulties in managing their deficits, such as my own country, thus allowing the continuation of the implementation of programmes which were threatened by the economic situation. i share the rapporteur's view that the retroactivity of these measures to increase the co-financing rate by 10 points is of strategic importance, and i think that the agreement reached is balanced, since it sets time limits and eligibility criteria which are without prejudice to the future multiannual financial framework. i am convinced that this amendment to regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 will be of key help to the member states most affected by the crisis, relieving the pressure on their national budgets and laying the foundations for a genuine cohesion policy among eu member states.
in writing. − member states that have undergone stabilisation/financial assistance programmes are currently facing major difficulties in financing their public investments. the enormous fiscal consolidation effort they are subject to and the lack of liquidity in their economies threaten to stop a significant body of public investment with strong community support. if the eu were to allow this to happen, not only would these countries not receive some of the community support to which they are entitled, but it would also make it more difficult for their economies to recover. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i regard the proposal to increase community co-financing as very positive.
in writing. − at a time when positive signals from the european institutions are needed to stem the financial crisis, it is important to approve the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 (general regulation) to provide additional financial resources to eu member states facing serious financial difficulties. this amendment allows the co-financing rates for eu funds for portugal, greece, ireland, romania, latvia and hungary to be increased to cover 95% of the total costs of projects that strengthen competitiveness, growth and employment.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's approval of this proposal, which allows for the interim payments under the structural funds and the cohesion fund to be increased by 10 percentage points above the actual co-financing rate for each priority axis in the case of member states facing serious difficulties in financial stability and having requested to benefit from this measure. the member states eligible for this measure are euro area countries that have received financial assistance under a european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm) programme and non-euro area countries that have received financial assistance under the european balance of payments facility. this provision shall therefore apply retroactively to portugal, ireland, greece and portugal with effect from the day on which financial assistance has been granted to them in accordance with article 77 (2). it shall also apply to hungary, latvia and romania from 1 january 2010. cohesion policy funds can thus be 95% european co-financed. the overwhelming majority of the european parliament voted in favour of this report. i hope the council will do the same.
in writing. - the national effort required, together with the restrictions on public investment imposed under the pretext of the stability pact, has long compromised the full use of community funds by the economically weaker countries which would need them most. the imf-eu programmes have significantly aggravated this picture, pushing investment - public and private - to historically low levels. the commission's proposal to increase community co-financing (erdf and esf) for the countries facing the greatest difficulties, with a corresponding reduction in national effort, has thus long been felt to be a necessity and unfortunately comes too late. but it should be noted that this proposal does not increase - as it should - the budget available to each of the countries in difficulty. on the contrary, the practical result, due to the reduction in national effort, will be a reduction in the overall value of investment planned in the areas concerned: social areas and regional development. the growth and development prospects opened up by the investments made will therefore be further reduced. the objective of cohesion is thus compromised. the commission must therefore consider the possibility of actually increasing the community funds available to these countries. in addition to the abolition of the irrational criteria of the stability pact, freeing up the necessary public investment.
in writing. the full use of community funds by the economically weaker countries, which would need them most, has long been hampered by the national effort required, together with the restrictions on public investment imposed, in particular under the pretext of the stability pact. recent imf-eu programmes have significantly aggravated this picture, pushing investment - public and private - to very low levels. this commission proposal to increase community co-financing (erdf and esf) for the countries facing the greatest difficulties, with a corresponding reduction in national effort, is too late. it should be noted, however, that this proposal does not increase the budget available to each of the countries in difficulty as it should. on the contrary, the practical result, due to the reduction in national effort, will be a reduction in the overall value of investment planned in the areas concerned: social areas and regional development. the commission must consider the possibility of actually increasing the community funds available to these countries, in addition to removing the unreasonable criteria of the stability pact, thus freeing up the necessary public investment.
in writing. − in august 2011, the european commission presented a proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions relating to the financial management of certain member states affected or threatened by serious difficulties in financial stability, such as greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania. the increase of 10 percentage points in the co-financing rate is advantageous for portugal, as it will facilitate the injection of funds into the national economy, anticipate the implementation of community funds and boost projects that will create jobs and generate wealth. the eur 629 million made available to portugal represents an advance on the 2007-2013 cohesion policy envelope and not new or additional funding for member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties in financial stability. i agree with the conclusions drawn by the rapporteur. this amendment to the general regulation will make it possible to take rapid action to help the member states hardest hit by the crisis. the temporary increase in the co-financing ceilings will make it easier to concentrate funds on the implementation of certain projects and will reduce the pressure on the national budget. in short, these measures will help our countries in this crisis.
in writing. − the current crisis facing the union has made it possible to improve the community's mechanisms for preventing systemic risks and reacting to situations of economic and financial fragility. on the one hand, this has allowed the community's policy-makers to focus their attention on the need to adopt structural instruments which, in the future, will allow a more rapid response to the various problems that may arise. on the other hand, it led to the adoption of measures which, in the short term, could mitigate the effects of the economic and financial crisis. this is the context in which the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards the provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties in financial stability is placed. one of the points to be highlighted is the increase of 10 percentage points in the community co-financing rate for cohesion projects. the regulation applies, inter alia, to euro-area countries which have received financial assistance in the context of the european financial stabilisation mechanism, which covers portugal. i therefore voted in favour, in the hope that these instruments will make it possible to alleviate the difficulties we have encountered.
in writing. − in august 2011, the european commission (ec) presented the proposal amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions relating to the financial management of certain member states affected or threatened by severe financial stability difficulties, namely greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, portugal and romania. i believe that the proposal to increase the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points is advantageous for portugal, because it will allow fresh money to be injected into the national economy, the community funds to be implemented earlier and projects to be stimulated which will create jobs and generate wealth. the eur 629 million made available to portugal represents an advance on the cohesion policy financial envelope for the period 2007-2013 and not new or additional funding for the member states. the urgency of the proposal and the short deadline for the committee report required close coordination between the rapporteur and the polish presidency, which is conducting the negotiations in the council. i would therefore like to congratulate all those involved on the swift decision taken to support member states in financial difficulties.
in writing. - i welcome this report, as it is important, particularly at this time of crisis, to pay particular attention to the outermost regions of europe, which are already facing permanent difficulties. in this sense, the tax exemptions and reductions for locally produced products in the canary islands, whose economy has been damaged by the current crisis, are justified.
in writing. - having regard to the commission proposal to the council and in accordance with rule 46, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards its period of application. for this reason, i do not think that this report needs to be amended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i considered that the serious economic situation in the canary islands justified the application of certain exceptional measures, in particular the introduction of a tax exemption scheme.
in writing. − council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2001 authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, tax exemptions or reductions to locally produced products in the canary islands. the decision seeks to strengthen local industry and thereby improve its competitiveness. on 16 november 2010, spain submitted to the european commission a request to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec by two years, until 2013. in view of the particular needs of the outermost regions, i am voting in favour of this extension, and i am in agreement with the commission, which has submitted this request.
in writing. - the present report, by danuta maria hübner, concerns the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards its period of application which expired on 31 december 2011. the abovementioned decision, which falls within the framework of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), provides for special measures to support the eu's outermost regions in order to help them overcome economic disadvantages resulting from their geographical situation. the canary islands are among the regions considered to be the outermost regions. the global economic and financial crisis had a serious impact on tourism in the canary islands and caused a significant increase in unemployment in the region, which rose from 17,3% in 2008 to 26,2% in 2009, prompting the spanish government to request the european commission to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec by two years. in this context, i am voting in favour of extending the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec to local products from the canary islands for a further two years, i.e. until 31 december 2013, the date on which the guidelines on national regional aid for 2007-2013 expire.
in writing. − the eu's outermost regions are affected by a number of structural factors affecting their social and economic situation and development, such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate, and economic dependence on a small number of products. for this reason, these regions should be given special attention. among other things, special conditions for the application of sectoral legislation and policies should be defined. this applies, of course, to all the outermost regions, including the azores and madeira, although the measures approved here only concern the canary islands. council decision 2002/546/ec authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax known as aiem to a list of products manufactured locally in the canary islands. the aim is now, at the request of the spanish government, to extend the period of application of these measures. the commission and the rapporteur propose that spain's request be granted, which deserves our agreement. in addition to the protection of local production in the outermost regions, measures are needed to protect national production, particularly in member states with weaker economies, as in the case of portugal. we have already made proposals to that effect.
in writing. - we know that in the eu's outermost regions there are a number of structural factors affecting their social and economic situation and development. these are the cases of remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate and economic dependence on a small number of products. for these reasons, these regions should be given special attention. among other things, special conditions for the application of sectoral legislation and policies should be defined. this applies, of course, to all the outermost regions, including the azores and madeira, although the measures approved here only concern the canary islands. council decision 2002/546/ec authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax known as aiem to a list of products manufactured locally in the canary islands. the aim is now, at the request of the spanish government, to extend the period of application of these measures. the commission and the rapporteur propose that spain's request be granted, which deserves our agreement. but measures to protect national production are also necessary, particularly in member states with weaker economies, such as portugal.
in writing. − council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 allows spain to apply exemptions or reductions from the aiem tax to products manufactured in the canary islands until 31 december 2011. this decision, which is the result of the fact that the region is an outermost region, sets out the reasons for adopting specific measures to strengthen local industry and thus improve its competitiveness. spain has submitted to the european commission a request to extend the period of application of the decision by two years, so that the expiry date of the decision coincides with the date of the guidelines on state aid for regional development for the period 2007-2013.
in writing. − decision 2002/546/ec authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the tax known as aiem to a list of products manufactured locally in the canary islands. on 16 november 2010, spain submitted to the european commission a request to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec by two years, so that the expiry date of the decision coincides with the date of the guidelines on state aid for regional development for the period 2007-2013. the commission's analysis took account of the scale of the difficulties affecting the canary islands. on the basis of the information available, the commission has concluded that the request of spain is justified. consequently, a proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/546/ec as regards its period of application was submitted, allowing for the extension of the period of application until 31 december 2013. parliament was called upon to vote on this amendment and, not only did i consider that these positive discrimination measures for the outermost regions are important for the archipelago which directly benefits from them and for those others who may be able to invoke the precedent, i voted in favour.
in writing. − council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 authorised spain to apply a series of tax exemptions or reductions to products manufactured in the canary islands in order to allow the strengthening of the local economy and competitiveness. despite their exceptional nature, i voted in favour of extending their application until 31 december 2013, in view of the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 authorises spain to apply, until 31 december 2011, exemptions or reductions from the aiem tax to a list of products manufactured locally in the canary islands. the decision sets out the reasons for adopting specific measures to strengthen local industry and thus improve its competitiveness, which stem in particular from the fact that it is an outermost region. spain has submitted to the european commission a request to extend the period of application of the decision by two years, so that the expiry date of the decision coincides with the date of the guidelines on state aid for regional development for the period 2007-2013. the commission's analysis took into account the scale of the difficulties affecting the canary islands and, on the basis of the information available, the commission concluded that it was justified to grant spain's request. the european parliament supported this decision, which, however, should not, in my view, affect trade with other outermost regions, but should, as its reasoning indicates, encourage the competitiveness of regions which are experiencing specific difficulties and therefore require special measures.
in writing. - i support this report, as it is important to remember the permanent nature of the disadvantages affecting the outermost regions and to create existing instruments to compensate for these disadvantages. the time we are living in is therefore an urgent one, and we must not ignore the gradual nature of the effort required to pursue more stringent or austere policies whenever we are faced with situations of greater fragility. in this sense, these measures in the field of tax policy are justified, not least because they do not call into question the legal order of the union.
in writing. - having regard to the commission proposal to the council and in accordance with rule 46, i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2007/659/ec as regards its period of application and the annual quota which may benefit from a reduced rate of excise duty. for this reason, i do not think that this report needs to be amended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it allows this traditional french overseas product to retain the current reduced rate of taxation temporarily, thus coinciding with the end of the application of the state aids decided by the commission for this sector.
in writing. − council decision 2007/659/ec of 9 october 2007 authorises france to apply, until the end of 2012, in the territory of metropolitan france and in respect of traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, a reduced rate of excise duty. the french authorities have requested the commission not only to increase the annual quota, but also to extend it for one year (until the end of 2013). i am in favour of this extension, and i support the commission, which has submitted these requests.
in writing. - article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for special measures to support the eu's outermost regions whose economies are weak. on 9 october 2007, the council adopted decision 2007/659/ec authorising france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to rum produced in metropolitan france and to traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments. france has, however, requested that the effects of the abovementioned decision be waived for a further year and that the annual quota for pure alcohol be increased from 108 000 hectolitres to 125 000. this report concerns the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2007/659/ec as regards its period of application, which ended on 31 december 2012, by extending it until 31 december 2013, the date of expiry of the guidelines on national regional aid for 2007 to 2013, and an adjustment of the annual quota for pure alcohol taking into account the evolution of the union market in relation to the consumption of rum. since these measures do not call into question the eu legal order, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - this proposal concerns the french overseas departments and pursues the same objectives as the proposal, under the responsibility of the same rapporteur, on the canary islands. in other words, the aim is to protect certain productions considered to be more sensitive in the outermost regions by means of fiscal measures. council decision 2007/659/ec authorises france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to traditional rum in those regions. since this derogation expires at the end of 2012, the french authorities have sent the commission two requests: first, to increase the annual quota from 108 000 hectolitres to 125 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol; and second, to extend the period of validity of the decision by one year, i.e. until the end of 2013. trade liberalization and deregulation and sacrosanct free competition threaten the viability of local production, particularly in countries and regions with weaker production systems and subject to various structural constraints. but as reality has shown, this risk is not confined to the ors. many of the arguments supporting the need to protect local production in the ors also justify the need to protect production in member states with weaker economies, as is the case with portugal.
in writing. - this report concerns the french overseas departments and pursues the same objectives as the proposal by the same rapporteur on the canary islands. the aim is to protect certain products considered to be more sensitive in the outermost regions by means of fiscal measures. council decision 2007/659/ec authorises france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty to traditional rum in those regions. since this derogation expires at the end of 2012, the french authorities have sent the commission two requests: first, to increase the annual quota from 108 000 hectolitres to 125 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol; and second, to extend the period of validity of the decision by one year, i.e. until the end of 2013. trade liberalization and deregulation and sacrosanct free competition threaten the viability of local production, particularly in countries and regions with weaker production systems and subject to various structural constraints. but as reality has shown, this risk is not confined to the ors. many of the arguments supporting the need to protect local production in the ors also justify the need to protect production in member states with weaker economies, such as portugal.
in writing. − taking into account the special conditions, characteristics and constraints of the eu's outermost regions, including the french overseas departments (fods), the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, will adopt specific measures to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties, including common policies. these specific measures concern, inter alia, fiscal policy.
in writing. − this report concerns the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2007/659/ec as regards its period of application and the annual quota which may benefit from a reduced rate of excise duty, namely for the marketing of rum from the french overseas departments. i am aware of the commission's report justifying this preferential treatment and considering that these positive discrimination measures for the outermost regions and/or the french overseas departments are important for the archipelago which directly benefits from them and for those who may be able to invoke the precedent, i voted in favour.
in writing. − council decision 2007/659/ec of 9 october 2007 authorised france to apply a reduced rate of excise duty on consumption in metropolitan france and on traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, with a view to enabling the strengthening of the local economy and competitiveness. despite their exceptional nature, i voted in favour of extending their application until 31 december 2013 and of increasing the annual quota to 125 000 hectolitres of pure alcohol, so that this scheme would be in line with the expiry of the period of application of the commission's decision on state aid for these goods.
in writing. − taking into account the special conditions, characteristics and constraints of the outermost regions, the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, may adopt specific measures to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties, in accordance with article 349 tfeu, including specific measures on fiscal policy. council decision 2007/659/ec of 9 october 2007 thus authorises france to apply, in the territory of metropolitan france and in respect of traditional rum produced in the french overseas departments, a reduced rate of excise duty limited to an annual quota of 108 000 hl of pure alcohol, the derogation ending on 31 december 2012. on 29 june 2010, the french authorities sent the commission the report containing two requests: to increase the annual quota to 125 000 hectolitres in order to adjust the quota to the evolution of the union rum market and to extend the period of application of the decision until 31 december 2013 in order to coincide with the expiry of the period of application of the state aid decision and the decision on the same subject, which were accepted by the commission and supported by parliament.
in writing. - it is a balanced report and i therefore approve it. i stress the importance of the ecb intervening in the european economy in a more robust way in the future, and it would be desirable to see this reflected in the reports for the coming years.
in writing. - i am convinced that the euro will survive the critical moments of our time. i commend the ecb's proactive and determined approach during the crisis, which has led it to play a key role in economic growth in europe. i welcome the economic governance package and stress the need to implement and apply its provisions swiftly. i call for a coherent and balanced application of the european pact for stability and growth and for an automatic mechanism for imposing sanctions on countries with budget deficits. i also call for a significant increase in the resources available for the new financial supervisory architecture with a view to increasing its effectiveness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its content in general. i particularly support the proposal to introduce eurobonds and to strengthen coordination of budgetary policies between member states.
in writing. − in the current economic context, the role of the european central bank is hotly debated, as with price stability as its primary objective and, consequently, financial stability and adequate liquidity in markets, much can still be done to help the eu's economic recovery. in addition to the ecb's increasingly active role in crisis management, notably in the summer of 2011, the report envisages a number of scenarios to be explored by the eu, such as the creation of a european finance minister, the creation of a european treasury, a european monetary fund, increased ecb intervention alongside the commission and the imf in the countries involved, among other proposals currently under discussion in the eu. this report therefore goes beyond a mere analysis of the ecb's role and activity throughout 2010 and makes concrete proposals.
in writing. − the european central bank, established on 1 june 1998, is the european union institution responsible for the monetary policy of the economic and monetary union. its main objectives are to preserve the purchasing power of the euro and to ensure price stability in its area. the importance of the euro is unquestionable, and without it the global financial crisis would have been much worse for most european countries. we have only recently seen how their intervention can calm the markets. in view of the crisis the eu is going through, it is more than ever essential to have a strong and stable euro if the single market and the movement of people and goods is to be a success. in fact, it was not the euro that failed. what has failed is the governance of the euro area, especially the failure to comply with the stability and growth pact. i believe that the ecb has maintained a balanced and constructive stance, making appropriate use of the mechanisms at its disposal, in particular the issuance of money, seeking to keep markets stable and exercising supervision at the macro level. i therefore voted in favour of the ecb's annual report for 2010.
in writing. - what we have been denouncing for a long time has become very clear this year: the ecb's false independence. as speculators focused on the sovereign debt of the states, charging quick interest on their necessary financing, the ecb financed the banks at interest rates several times lower than those which the banks later charged to the states. with this genuine mechanism of extortion, thus fuelled by the ecb, the banks, especially the big banks of the great powers, have won, but the states, especially those with weaker economies, and the people have lost. this mechanism is now complemented by the purchase of debt on the secondary market, thus alleviating the exposure of the same banks to debt securities of countries in difficulty (potentially toxic assets). this is how the banks' backs are kept warm, encouraging the extortion of states and peoples to continue. all this requires a fundamental change in the ecb's statutes, guidelines and false autonomy, guaranteeing the equal presence of the states in its management, in order to ensure effective political control by its member states. the report ignores all this and endorses the role and the intervention that the ecb has been developing. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. - if anything has become clear during the year under review, it is what we have long been denouncing: the ecb's false independence. as speculators focused on the sovereign debt of the states, charging quick interest on their necessary financing, the ecb financed the banks at interest rates several times lower than those which the banks later charged to the states. with this genuine mechanism of extortion, thus fuelled by the ecb, the banks, especially the big banks of the great powers, have won, but the states, especially those with weaker economies, and the people have lost. this mechanism is now complemented by the purchase of debt on the secondary market, thus alleviating the exposure of the same banks to debt securities of countries in difficulty (potentially toxic assets). this is how the banks' backs are kept warm, encouraging the extortion of states and peoples to continue. all this requires a fundamental change in the ecb's statutes, guidelines and false autonomy, guaranteeing the equal presence of the states in its management, in order to ensure effective political control by its member states. the report ignores all this, but rather endorses the role and the intervention that the ecb has been developing. we therefore voted against.
in writing. - this report is set against a backdrop of crisis, which, despite the consequences, has achieved the main objective of financial stability in the european economy through the use of a number of measures. this document will focus on the ecb's actions, in particular with regard to price stability and financial supervision. there are, however, some criticisms, such as the need to publish the minutes and conclusions of the meetings of its executive body and the increasing difficulty in promoting economic convergence in the euro area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report. i would like, however, to join the rapporteur in deploring the absence of an adequate european economic policy framework for crisis management and the hesitation in crisis management on the part of the commission and the member states, particularly those that are in need of reform. i would stress the call by the european parliament for the council and the commission to come forward swiftly with the comprehensive and far-reaching measures needed to safeguard the stability of the euro.
in writing. − the presentation of the european central bank's annual report 2010 recalls the difficult problems that the european union has been facing for some months now. the rapporteur points out with undeniable relevance the successes that have been achieved despite recent events. in fact, monetary union seems to have been the basis for the success of the single market, providing the conditions for a comprehensive system of free intermediation in trade. it also allowed the introduction of mechanisms for correcting and monitoring the public accounts of the member states, albeit weak ones, which seems to be the source of the current disturbances. however, despite the control instruments provided, there is a lack of a central governance mechanism, which led to the ecb's intervention. it is noted, for example, that since its introduction, there have been dozens of violations of the stability and growth pact, including by france and germany. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, taking into account what is most fundamental about it: a genuine common budgetary policy.
in writing. − the ecb's annual report was prepared in a context of crisis, in which, despite the constraints that this imposes, the main objective of financial stability in the european economy was pursued through a number of serious measures. the european parliament document highlights the ecb's actions, in particular its success in price stability and its new tasks in the area of financial supervision. however, it highlights some critical points such as the need to publish the minutes and conclusions of the meetings of its executive body and the increasing difficulty in promoting economic convergence in the euro area. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i support this report because education is an area which indelibly determines the future of the eu. by tackling early school leaving effectively we can help the eu because strengthening the competitiveness of our economy may well be based essentially on a commitment to knowledge. we therefore need to raise skill levels in order to add value and skills to our resources and to face the increasingly demanding labour market and the competitive world.
in writing. - early school leaving is a complex phenomenon and represents a major challenge for europe. the europe 2020 strategy has set as one of its priority objectives the reduction of school drop-out by 10% by 2020. school failure cannot be assessed in isolation, as it is intrinsically linked to phenomena such as poverty, migration and family situation and has social and economic implications that have been shown to be extremely serious. this report proposes a set of major measures and initiatives to reduce this phenomenon, it being estimated that reducing the number of young people leaving school early in europe by 1% would create over half a million qualified young people every year. in this respect, it is crucial that the present approach is student-centred, with a view to offering wider choice, promoting mobility between different aspects of education, improving pupil/teacher ratios and reintegrating young people who have left school. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that these measures can help to combat early school leaving.
in writing. − i would stress the european parliament's concern for equal opportunities, for the choice of access to education for individuals of all social, ethnic or religious backgrounds, irrespective of sex or disability, and for support for pupils with learning difficulties with a view to integration. i would stress the effort by the member states to introduce a system of financial support subject to a means test to support those who need it, in order to support the most disadvantaged families through the provision of free meals and school books and to reduce the impact of social inequality. i would like to stress the european parliament's recommendation on early learning of the new information and communication technologies (ict) and languages, as the preferred means of communication which young people are particularly quick to acquire.
in writing. − early school leaving is a complex phenomenon and reducing it requires a strong political commitment. early school leaving is undoubtedly one of the biggest contributors to unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which is why the europe 2020 strategy sets as one of its five major objectives the reduction of the school leaving rate to below 10%. the reality of young people's employability depends largely on the level of qualifications achieved. according to eurostat data, in 2009, around 52% of young people in the eu who left school early were unemployed. i welcome the fact that we have seen a continuing decline in the school drop-out rate. however, more than half of the member states have not yet reached the 10% target, as the vast majority of them continue to have a fragmented and poorly coordinated approach to this problem. i support the proposed framework for the adoption of comprehensive and coherent strategies which should help member states to develop effective policies to reduce early school leaving. significantly reducing the number of young people who leave school early is a crucial investment, not only for their individual future, but also for the future prosperity and social cohesion of the eu as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the proposals adopted contribute to combating early school leaving more effectively. early school leaving has very negative consequences both economically and socially. all measures to reduce early school leaving are crucial for the future economic and social development of the member states. it is estimated that reducing the number of young people who leave school early in europe by just 1% would create about half a million more young people with qualifications each year.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy sets the priority objective of reducing early school leaving to 10% by 2020. in 2009, the early school leaving rate for people aged 18-24 was 14.4%, which is still far from the target set. the rapporteur explains that school drop-out has serious social and economic implications, with a negative impact on economic growth and generating economic and social instability. it is therefore urgent that member states develop policies to combat school drop-out and that they focus on technical and vocational training, creating close links between schools and the labour market, in order to promote growth and competitiveness.
in writing. - this report, by mrs mary honeyball, addresses the problem of early school leaving and the measures and instruments adopted by the european union to support member states in developing more efficient and effective national policies to tackle this problem. among the six priority objectives enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy, reducing early school leaving to 10% by 2020 is one of the main objectives. it should be noted that in 2009, the school drop-out rate among people aged 18-24 was 14.4%. this is a matter of paramount importance, because by fighting this we are not only raising the self-esteem of citizens, but also improving the quality of life of people, thereby helping to reduce poverty and the number of those who are socially excluded. first, the risk groups (ethnic minorities, low-education parents, rural populations, etc.) must be identified, the causes of early school leaving, such as school failure, and the factors that promote it, such as poverty, abuse and unstable family situations. i am aware that solving this problem requires a global approach and the mobilisation of all those involved in the teaching/learning process, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report seeks to address the problem of early school leaving in a comprehensive way. firstly, by providing some useful information to help us understand its scale and persistence, and thus to record the failure of the eu's objectives in this field. then, by identifying causes and coming up with some concrete proposals to combat it. the report contains important points which we value, such as: the call for attention to a greater incidence of the problem in the most disadvantaged social groups; the necessary link between school drop-outs and poverty and social exclusion; the warning of the consequences of the cuts in public education systems; the impact of ineffective policies on reconciling work and family life. but we felt that it could and should have gone further. in particular, in denouncing the policies in place in numerous countries, such as portugal. the deregulation of labour relations, the disinvestment and the disempowerment of the state, the dismantling of public services, have all led not only to an increase in school drop-outs but also to the recurrence of dramas such as child labour. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one.
in writing. - the problem of early school leaving is addressed here in a comprehensive way. firstly, by providing some useful information to help us understand its scale and persistence, and thus to record the failure of the eu's objectives in this field. then, by identifying causes and coming up with some concrete proposals to combat it. the report contains important points which we value, such as: the call for attention to the greater incidence of the problem in the most disadvantaged social groups; the necessary link between school drop-outs and poverty and social exclusion; the warning of the consequences of the cuts in public education systems; the impact of ineffective policies on reconciling work and family life. but we believe that more could and should have been done, especially in denouncing the policies in place in many countries such as portugal. the deregulation of labour relations, the disinvestment and the disempowerment of the state, the dismantling of public services, taken as a whole, have led not only to an increase in school drop-outs but also to the recurrence of dramas such as child labour. we do not agree with the rapporteur's emphasis on the increasing orientation of the education system towards the labour market to the detriment of the individual's full training.
in writing. − building an effective education system and tackling school drop-out is one of the greatest challenges facing a country. in a space of 27, the challenge is even greater. literary qualifications (or lack thereof) are proven to be an indicator of poverty, with thousands of qualified young people being lost every year. the social and economic implications of high early school leaving rates are severe, with a negative impact on the union's economic growth. education is a key pillar of successful european integration in terms of the definition of effective national policies to deal with the problem of early school leaving. in this respect, i welcome the adoption of the europe 2020 strategy, which will certainly force member states to set new standards in their education policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that equal opportunities, choice and access to high quality education for people of all social, ethnic or religious backgrounds, regardless of gender or disability, is fundamental to creating a more just, cohesive, innovative and dynamic society and i believe that the proposals put forward are moving in this direction.
in writing. − one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce early school leaving to 10% by the year 2020. the aim is to provide the european union with skilled workers and to provide a basis for the future of the various member states. this requires measures to provide answers to the problems faced by young people who, year after year, leave the formal education process at a very early stage. in these areas, the data point to a wide heterogeneity of causes leading to early school leaving, suggesting the need to also offer diverse responses. it is therefore justified to share good practices between the different member states, thus seeking to find at all times the most appropriate ways to achieve the meritorious objective of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − early school leaving is a problem affecting eu countries and poses a challenge to the development of a society based on knowledge and innovation, as enshrined in the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, in particular the flagship initiative 'youth on the move'. the target of 10% for early school leaving by 2020 is still far from being achieved, as in 2009 the early school leaving rate for people aged 18-24 was 14.4%. the factors leading to school drop-out are multiple, reflected particularly in risk groups associated with poverty, abuse and family situations, school failure and ethnic minorities and migrant populations. this will, if successful, reduce intergenerational poverty and provide medium- and long-term economic growth. there is no single solution, but rather a set of initiatives and measures, with a particular focus on public policies, in order to involve the various educational actors and local communities. more socio-professional support and counselling services, innovative and continuous forms of assessment, the acquisition of critical assessment skills, learning to learn and increased mobility can make a difference.
in writing. - i abstain on this report because parliament is not on an equal footing with the council in the area of strategic decision-making.
in writing. - this programme, proposed by the european commission, deserves my full appreciation, as it seeks to support the adjustment of areas dependent on banana exports. these measures will support economic diversification or investment policies to increase competitiveness as well as social and environmental impact. they will also contribute to poverty reduction and the gradual integration of banana-exporting acp (african, caribbean and pacific) countries into the world economy, supporting sustainable development.
in writing. - i abstained on the report on the development cooperation financing instrument - accompanying measures in the banana sector, because i believe that the european parliament should have an equal weight with the council in strategic political decisions concerning the negotiation of future financial instruments.
in writing. - the banana trade is an important source of income for several countries, including the acp states. the european union has had to give these states preferential treatment which has been repeatedly rejected by the world trade organisation. this led to the negotiation of a new trade agreement within the framework of this organization, which reduced the margin of preference for the african, caribbean and pacific countries. this will have an impact on these countries and justifies the proposal to establish the monitoring programme in question. i agree with the need to monitor developments in this sector.
in writing. the report is one of a set of four texts adopted in a conciliation procedure between the european parliament and the council. it was a somewhat complicated procedure in that the treaty of lisbon was not respected by the council as far as codecision was concerned. the ep, aware of the urgency of reaching an agreement in order not to harm third parties, eventually relented on its positions. the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishes a financing instrument for development cooperation by adopting accompanying measures in the banana sector. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, because failure to adopt it would have very serious consequences, both for european citizens who would see supplies cut off and for the producing countries - the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries - which would be deprived of this aid for their survival, since in some cases the humanitarian situation is dramatic and would worsen. moreover, this approval was a good result for the eu's credibility image, otherwise it would be labelled as an unreliable partner.
in writing. - apart from the subject which dominated the discussion of this report, the main issue which was left out of the debate still remains. from the first reading to the current conciliation phase, the discussion has focused on delegated acts and parliament's role in decisions considered strategic. this discussion now ends with parliament's concession to the council, abandoning the 'equality between co-legislators' it had previously called for. but we cannot fail to point out, as we have done before, that the accompanying measures in the banana sector (mab) under the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) do not take due account of the interests and needs of the acp countries. these countries, which will be significantly affected by the liberalisation of trade with the central american countries (as well as the eu's outermost regions), were not properly involved in the discussion of this agreement. according to the acp countries, the amount of aid needed to maintain their banana sector, cushioning the impact of this liberalisation, will be around eur 500 million. the amount proposed by the commission, eur 190 million, is thus far below the estimated impact of this agreement. it should be remembered that on the african continent alone, some 500 000 people depend on the banana sector.
in writing. - as we have already mentioned in previous debates on this subject, the question of delegated acts has dominated the discussion around the development cooperation financing instrument, as indeed with other financial instruments. in this case, there have been legitimate concerns, which we share, about a possible delay in the transfer of the money provided for in the accompanying measures for the banana sector because of the ongoing dispute between parliament and the council. without diminishing the importance of this discussion, it would be good, however, to also look at the substantive issues arising from the agreement on the liberalization of trade in bananas signed by the european union. it should be recalled that the acp countries, which will be significantly affected by this agreement if they are not properly involved in its discussion, have estimated the amount of aid needed to maintain their banana sector at eur 500 million. the amount proposed by the commission falls far short of the estimated impact of this agreement. in africa alone, some 500 000 people depend on the banana sector for their livelihoods, which is considered a pillar of sustainable development, enabling the establishment of health, water, energy and housing infrastructure. the free trade that this agreement opens up will now call this into question.
in writing. − the proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006, presented in may 2010, establishes a development cooperation financing instrument with the aim of creating a banana sector accompanying measures programme for the main african, caribbean and pacific (acp) banana suppliers. i support the report because it contains measures to support existing social and environmental changes, to establish policies of economic diversification and to structure investments with a view to increasing their competitiveness.
in writing. - i abstained from the final vote on the eu financing for development regulation (dci-bam) to respect the compromise vote obtained within the socialist group between those in favour and those against this legislative instrument. however, as a member of the conciliation committee which negotiated with the council, i believe that this regulation is the best possible. it is not true, as the opponents say, that parliament will have less power than the council in monitoring the commission's application of the directive. and i think that no other national parliament goes as far as this in its parliamentary control of national programmes to support developing countries. neither parliament nor the council can take the place of the commission in the exercise of the implementing powers conferred on it by the treaties. it is simply a question of respect for the separation of powers.
in writing. - having regard to the report (a7-0403/2011) and the comments made in the written statement, i voted in favour of the legislative resolution amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation in this field.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 established a financing instrument for development cooperation, which has recently been subject to a review procedure. however, in view of the differences that arose between the institutions during the legislative procedure, a conciliation committee was set up and, after eight trilogues, a final agreement was reached, confirmed by an exchange of letters on 24 and 26 october 2011. i therefore voted in favour, but i stressed the need for the european parliament to be considered as a co-legislator in these decision-making procedures.
in writing. − in march 2010, the european commission (ec) presented the proposal amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation with the aim of creating a programme of accompanying measures for the banana sector for the main african, caribbean and pacific (acp) banana-supplying countries. i am voting in favour of this report because it includes measures to support existing social and environmental changes, to establish policies of economic diversification and to structure investments with a view to increasing their competitiveness. after being approved at first reading, eight trilogues were held, resulting in the commitment package budgeted at eur 190 million and with a maximum duration of four years (2010-2013).
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that with regard to future financing instruments, the ep will insist on delegated acts and on a level playing field with the council where strategic decisions are involved.
in writing. - i welcome the main objective of the icd (instrument for development cooperation) to eradicate poverty through the achievement of the millennium development goals. it is in the common interest to continue to deepen relations with countries which are both developing countries and important partners in the world economy, such as india, china, brazil and mexico. i stress the importance of energy security and public diplomacy for the community's interests and for the eradication of poverty in regions such as central asia and the middle east.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that pip+ is going in the right direction, by promoting a strengthening of the european union's relations with developing economies. at a time when most of the world's economic growth is taking place in developing economies, defending europe's interests requires the eu to invest in its political diplomacy, to invest in economic partnerships and to develop growing business cooperation with emerging markets. only then can the eu meet the challenge of globalisation.
in writing. − as i argued in the first reading vote (october 2010), i believe it is essential that europe establishes strong relations with certain regional and global actors, supporting them and establishing strong political and economic ties. i would like to mention in particular two countries with which portugal has strong historical and emotional ties, brazil and angola, two important global players in south america and africa respectively, which the eu should increasingly look to as partners. however, with the deepening of the crisis in europe and the good performance of many of the countries covered by this instrument, it is all the more important to deepen the european union's relations with developing countries which are simultaneously major partners in the world economy, such as china, brazil and mexico, and with regions such as central asia and the middle east, asia, latin america and also south africa.
in writing. the report is one of a set of four texts adopted in a conciliation procedure between the european parliament and the council. the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1934/2006 establishes a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (ipis) and aims to extend this financing instrument to include developing countries covered by regulation (ec) no 1905/2006, in particular countries in asia, central asia and latin america, as well as iraq, iran, yemen and south africa. the agreement reached on this issue, in addition to public support for development, allows the eu to deepen its relationship with developing countries such as india, brazil and china, which play a very important role in the world economy. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, and the funds will enable public diplomacy to be strengthened, awareness-raising activities to be carried out, economic partnerships and business cooperation to be promoted, thus strengthening the relationship between europeans and the citizens of these countries.
in writing. − the development cooperation instrument (dci) was set up for geographical cooperation with countries in asia, central asia and latin america, as well as iraq, iran, yemen and south africa, in order to eradicate poverty and meet the so-called millennium development goals. it is very important that the european union deepen its relations with developing countries and take on a growing role in the world economy. we must ensure that the proposal ensures stable funding for cooperation in the period 2010 to 2013, with the provision of €176 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament legislative resolution on the joint text adopted by the conciliation committee on the amendment of the council regulation establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories. i do so because i fully agree with the objectives and priorities which the commission reiterates in this report, namely the eradication of poverty, including the pursuit of the millennium development goals, which it presents as the main objectives of its development cooperation policy.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1394/2006 established a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised or high-income countries and territories. however, efforts have been made to extend its scope to include developing countries which do not meet the criteria for official development assistance as defined by the oecd but which are of major importance for the union's external policy, such as china, mexico and brazil. however, in view of the differences that arose between the institutions during the legislative procedure, a conciliation committee was set up and, after eight trilogues, a final agreement was reached, confirmed by an exchange of letters on 24 and 26 october 2011. i have voted in favour of this initiative because i consider it to be relevant to the community's external action and because it has been possible to reach a global agreement between the institutions.
in writing. − the european union has established the development cooperation instrument (dci) for geographical cooperation with countries in asia, central asia and latin america, as well as with iraq, iran, yemen and south africa, with the overall objective of eradicating poverty through the achievement of the millennium development goals. i agree with this report because i think it is important that the european union develops its relations with developing countries, which are becoming increasingly important in the world economy. the proposals submitted aim to ensure stable financing for cooperation in the period 2010-2013, in particular by making available eur 176 million. finally, i am extremely pleased that the proposal contains principles of strategic management which will make it possible to optimise the development of the cdi, in particular the definition of objectives, thematic priorities, indicative financial allocation and expected results.
in writing. - i support this report because of the importance which the eu must maintain in the field of the promotion of fundamental human rights, freedom and democracy. moreover, all economic and trade agreements signed by the european union with third countries must continue to take account of the respect for human rights which these states show. given that the eu is a model territory, we also have a responsibility to spread this standard of respect for human rights and as such we need the appropriate financial means to implement programmes and projects to this end.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement reached in the conciliation process which strengthens the european parliament's negotiating position, particularly with regard to future financial instruments in the field of external relations. i voted in favour of the agreement because i believe that it will help to overcome the obstacles to the implementation of the development cooperation financing instrument (dci) and the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights (fidh). the emcdda, together with the cdi, is the only external action instrument which does not provide for any exception to the principle of the eu's non-eligibility for financing costs related to fees, duties and other charges.
in writing. − the revision of the regulation establishing a european instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights at the global level was necessary because of its lack of flexibility, as this external action instrument does not provide for any exception to the principle of non-eligibility for eu funding of costs related to fees, duties and other charges, which can make it extremely difficult for programmes and projects financed by external aid to be implemented properly. the revision of this instrument has been integrated into a package of four external action instruments. following intensive negotiations between the council and the ep, a political agreement was finally reached. i think it is very positive that the overall result of the conciliation procedure is that, in principle, important strategic decisions such as objectives, priorities, indicative financial allocations and expected results should be taken jointly by the council and the ep in a codecision procedure. the ep's position on delegated acts is also improved, and it is welcome that the two institutions have agreed on a joint declaration outlining the use of delegated acts in the field of external relations with regard to future financial instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide, given the importance of these funds for those who benefit from them and because i consider the compromise reached in the negotiations with the council to be positive.
in writing. − the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) is one of the european union's main external financing instruments. it does not provide for any exception to the principle of the ineligibility for eu funding of costs related to fees, duties and other charges. flexibility in this respect is important, since excessive rigidity could call into question the actions financed or to be financed. the commission intends to change this state of affairs, which i think is appropriate for the purpose of this financial instrument.
in writing. - the european union is a world reference in the functioning of democracy - for better or for worse - and in the uncompromising defence of human rights. it has therefore adopted the charter of fundamental rights, which is binding on all member states, and it raises its voice in the fight against the death penalty and all forms of inhuman treatment. the report on the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) is one of a set of four texts adopted in a conciliation procedure between the european parliament and the council. the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1889/2006 establishes a financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, because we need to continue to defend human rights in countries where they are violated. that is why we must protect activists and ngos, because we cannot allow certain states to use taxes to disrupt the work of fundamental human rights defenders.
in writing. − the lack of flexibility of the regulation establishing a european instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide has led to its revision. this instrument for external action does not provide for any exception to the principle of the ineligibility for eu funding of costs related to fees, duties and other charges, which may hamper the proper implementation of programmes and projects financed by the eu. the consensus reached between the council and the ep on codecision was also important.
in writing. − the financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide is one of the instruments available for the union's external policy. this instrument, together with others of foreign policy, was negotiated in a so-called legislative package. the aim was to give the ep greater scrutiny. the conciliation process resulted in a joint declaration of the european parliament and the council on the use of delegated acts in the field of external relations in relation to future financial instruments, which reinforces the european parliament's negotiating position with regard to the inclusion of delegated acts in the new instruments. the importance of this agreement is crucial to the democratic nature of these financing processes.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1899/2006 established a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide and has recently been the subject of a review procedure aimed at introducing more flexible criteria for the allocation of financial assistance. however, in view of the differences that arose between the institutions during the legislative procedure, a conciliation committee was set up and, after eight trilogues, a final agreement was reached, confirmed by an exchange of letters on 24 and 26 october 2011. i voted in favour of this initiative because i considered it to be relevant to the community's external action and because it was possible to reach a global agreement between the institutions.
in writing. − some inconsistencies have been identified between the various financial instruments used in the framework of the european union's external cooperation as regards the eligibility for community financing of costs relating to taxes, duties and other charges, and the procedures to be adopted need to be clarified. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree that community support should not, in principle, be used for the payment of taxes, duties or charges in the beneficiary countries.
in writing. - i approve this report. the european union is the institution in the world that most supports the development of countries that need to reach more advanced levels of progress. it is important that europe continues to be a reference in this field, because solidarity between peoples is one of the social hallmarks that must continue to be part of the eu's genetic code. the eu must support sustainable development and the implementation of support programmes must be as transparent as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this commitment package because i understand that the european institutions have been working towards clarifying community funding, having decided, in particular, that community aid granted may not be used for the payment of taxes, duties or charges in the beneficiary countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing instrument for development cooperation, given the importance of these funds for those who benefit from them and because i regard the compromise reached in the negotiations with the council as positive.
in writing. the report, drawn up by gay mitchel, is one of four texts adopted in a somewhat controversial conciliation procedure on codecision between the european parliament and the council. the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 establishes a financing instrument for development cooperation (dci). in a tight financial framework such as the one we are in due to the economic and financial crisis, the development cooperation appropriations are not the ideal way to support more countries, more students and implement measures to combat poverty and social exclusion. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, as it is essential that we continue to work towards eradicating poverty, in line with the millennium development goals (mdgs) and the europe 2020 strategy. it is also important that these funds motivate people to respect human rights, to comply with the rules set by the international labour organisation (ilo) and to contribute to the reduction of co2 by combating climate change.
in writing. the conciliation procedure resulted in parliament's backing down from the council's positions. the report is critical of the council's position, but accepts it in the name of compromise, on the condition that this procedure does not constitute a precedent for the future. we do not dismiss this debate on delegated acts, which has been dragging on since the beginning of the discussion of this report. but more than this is at stake in the discussion on the development cooperation instrument (dci). in particular, because financial instruments are inseparable from the policy objectives they serve, there is a need to reflect more deeply on a fundamental question: the guiding principle of eu development cooperation and aid policy. and here we have to take account not only of quantitative aspects, such as the amount of funding - which takes time to meet the commitments made - but also, and this is no less important, of qualitative aspects. the commission has tried to impose free trade agreements (the so-called epas) on developing countries, despite their many resistance, and has even made part of present and future aid conditional, explicitly or implicitly, on such agreements, in an unacceptable act of blackmail.
in writing. the conciliation process resulted in the european parliament's withdrawal from the council's positions. the report is critical of the council's position, but accepts it in the name of compromise, on the condition that this procedure does not constitute a precedent for the future. we do not dismiss this debate on delegated acts, which has been dragging on since the beginning of the discussion of this report. but more than this is at stake in the discussion on the development cooperation instrument (dci). in particular, because financial instruments are inseparable from the policy objectives they serve, there is a need to reflect more deeply on a fundamental question: the guiding principle of eu development cooperation and aid policy. and here we have to take account not only of quantitative aspects, such as the amount of funding - which takes time to meet the commitments made - but also, and this is no less important, of qualitative aspects. the commission has tried to impose free trade agreements (the so-called epas) on developing countries, despite their many resistance, and has even made some of the present and future aid conditional, explicitly or implicitly.
in writing. the european institutions have been working on amendments to this regulation to clarify the prohibition of financing in the context of the payment of taxes, having decided that community aid granted may not be used for the payment of taxes, duties or charges in the beneficiary countries. i therefore agree with this report, given the need to standardise and clarify the support granted, in order to avoid misuse of the support provided by the european union.
in writing. − in the same context as the previous case, a7-0404/2011, the european parliament negotiated for greater scrutiny. the conciliation process resulted in a joint declaration of the european parliament and the council on the use of delegated acts in the field of external relations in relation to future financial instruments, which strengthens the european parliament's negotiating position with regard to the inclusion of delegated acts in the new instruments. the importance of this agreement is crucial to the democratic nature of these financing processes.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1905/2006 established a financing instrument for development cooperation, which has recently been subject to a review procedure. however, in view of the differences that arose between the institutions during the legislative procedure, a conciliation committee was set up and, after eight trilogues, a final agreement was reached, confirmed by an exchange of letters on 24 and 26 october 2011. i therefore voted in favour, but i stressed the need for the european parliament to be considered as a co-legislator in these decision-making procedures.
in writing. - article 294 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union lays down the procedure for the adoption of an act by the ordinary legislative procedure, with the european commission submitting a proposal to the european parliament and the council. the european institutions have been working on amendments to the regulation to clarify the prohibition of financing in the context of the payment of taxes, having decided that community aid granted may not be used for the payment of taxes, duties or charges in the beneficiary countries. i welcome this report because i believe that it is necessary to standardise and clarify the support granted in order to avoid misinterpretations of the support provided by the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report at first reading, following amendments by the s&d group concerning the conditions for delegating powers to the commission.
in writing. - the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission concluded in its opinion that the proposal in question does not contain substantive amendments and that the proposal is merely a codification of existing acts without any substantive changes. i therefore voted in favour, because i consider that the proposed amendments constitute a basis for further negotiations with the council and the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the statistical survey of road freight transport, because i regard the agreement reached with the council at first reading as positive, in particular as regards the definition of the scope and the delegation of powers, and the obligation for the commission to report on the application of the regulation in 2014.
in writing. the proposal aims to make compulsory the collection of data by type of goods for road transport statistics by standardising the type of information collected and processed in the 27 member states. i am convinced that the commission is right to take the initiative in this matter.
in writing. − the objectivity of statistics as a branch of applied mathematics gives it a special status both in the field of scientific research and in public and private organisations. no government can do without a body responsible for statistical studies. the eu itself has the statistical office of the european communities (eurostat). in an ever-expanding area where the road is playing a decisive role in the transport of goods, reliable data are essential to inform all studies in this area, which are only possible with statistics. this report, by brian simpson, concerns the recasting of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on statistical surveys of the carriage of goods by road in the eu. in view of the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of the ep, the council and the commission that this proposal does not involve any substantive changes, but merely codifies existing acts, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - in its proposal to recast the regulation on statistical surveys of road freight transport, the commission intends to extend its delegated powers. the rapporteur rightly considers that the scope of the proposed delegation of power is too broad. it is therefore proposed to restrict this scope, with the concern, of course, that the financial burden imposed on respondents and member states will also be restricted. this regulation ensures that community provisions are clear and easy to understand, particularly as regards statistical data on vehicles, journeys and goods. member states shall transmit to eurostat on a quarterly basis the individual data, duly verified, corresponding to the variables mentioned. the proposed approach is identical to the approach for the recently approved statistical information on tourism, which seems appropriate to us. the usefulness of having reliable statistics to support the formulation of sectoral public policies is thus balanced by the absence of overburdening the respondents.
in writing. - in its proposal to recast the regulation on statistical surveys of road haulage, the commission intends to extend its delegated powers. the rapporteur rightly considers that the scope of the proposed delegation of power is too broad. it is therefore proposed to restrict this scope, with the concern, of course, that the financial burden imposed on respondents and member states will also be restricted. this regulation ensures that community provisions are clear and easy to understand, particularly as regards statistical data on vehicles, journeys and goods. member states shall transmit to eurostat on a quarterly basis the individual data, duly verified, corresponding to the variables mentioned. the proposed approach is identical to the approach for the recently approved statistical information on tourism, which seems appropriate to us. the usefulness of having reliable statistics to support the formulation of sectoral public policies is thus balanced with the non-overburdening of the respondents.
in writing. − the recast of the regulation on statistical data on road freight transport was necessary in order to codify a set of acts on road transport statistics and at the same time to define new criteria for delegated acts. the standardisation of statistical data is essential to assess clearly the different data provided by the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the basis of the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which concluded that, apart from the amendments duly identified, the proposal in question does not contain any other substantive amendments, merely codifying the existing acts without any substantive changes.
in writing. - the present proposal on statistical surveys of road freight transport aims, on the one hand, to codify existing provisions with undeniable advantages of legal certainty and security and of accessibility to the legislative texts by community citizens and, on the other hand, to specify the conditions for the delegation of powers to the commission by the community legislator, in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this is a laudable aim, since it aims to ensure that the secondary law of the union is brought into line with its fundamental texts. i therefore voted in favour of the text.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to reformulate the regulation on statistical data on road freight transport in order to codify a set of acts on road transport statistics and at the same time to define new criteria for delegated acts. i fully support the standardization of statistical data in order to assess clearly the different data provided by the member states. however, i would point out that this reformulation should not add additional costs to the respondents and that parliament should be adequately informed when delegating powers to the commission. the same amendment should also be applied to tourism statistics.
in writing. - i support this report, agreeing with the rapporteur's view that border zones are a very important instrument, developed by the european union, to ensure that artificial and arbitrary borders are not erected between peoples living in regions divided by national borders. it is indeed important to encourage member states to conclude bilateral agreements with neighbouring third countries in order to promote sustained contacts between the peoples living on both sides of the external borders of the european union.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region of the russian federation became an enclave within the european union following the enlargement of the eu in 2004, and since then all its links with neighbouring countries have been considerably restricted. in recent years, there have been several initiatives in the eu that have facilitated the movement of kaliningrad residents. however, taking into account the specific geographical situation of kaliningrad, these initiatives have proven insufficient in responding to the marginalization of kaliningrad and its residents. i welcome the european commission's proposal to amend the regulation on small border traffic in response to an exceptional situation.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region is characterised by a very specific geographical situation, as it became the only enclave in the eu after the 2004 enlargement, being entirely surrounded by two eu member states. it is therefore of fundamental importance in terms of cooperation and exchange in the baltic sea area, and it is important to ensure that the eu's borders do not serve as an obstacle to economic, regional, social and cultural cooperation with these neighbouring countries. while there is a 2007 eu-russia agreement on visa facilitation, the small border movement regulation provides for greater facilities that are more in line with the specific needs of regular, or even daily, movement of people living in a border area. i consider this proposal to be essential from the point of view of crossborder cooperation developed under the european neighbourhood policy, which will undoubtedly contribute to promoting the strategic partnership between the eu and russia and to improving neighbourly relations between the two. it should be noted, however, that this was a unique solution to the exceptional situation in the kaliningrad region and that it is by no means a precedent.
in writing. - the present kaliningrad region - part of what was formerly east prussia - is a russian enclave within the european union. in order to avoid the isolation of its population, it is proposed to facilitate the movement of its inhabitants by derogating from certain rules contained in the schengen borders code - amending regulation (ec) no 1931/2006 to that effect - and their access to the neighbouring polish regions. the peculiar situation of that russian region seems to justify the exceptional nature of these measures and to favour dialogue with one of the union's most important partners, so i give my consent to their adoption.
in writing. − one of the greatest successes in european history was the schengen agreement, which, by abolishing internal borders, facilitated the movement of people within the territories of the signatory states and promoted trade and tourism. this freedom of movement, however, entails great responsibilities for the states and requires them to coordinate their activities. the success of this agreement is such that some countries which have not joined the european union have signed it. in order to regulate the control of persons crossing the external borders, a regulation called the schengen borders code (sbc) has been adopted. the small kaliningrad province of the russian federation is surrounded by two member states and has been the only eu enclave since the 2004 enlargement, and should therefore be included as a small crossborder traffic area in the sfs, which will favour the strategic partnership between the eu and the russian federation. i therefore vote in favour of the report by mr kyriacos triantaphyllides on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1931/2006 by welcoming the inclusion of the kaliningrad region and some polish administrative districts of the border area in the schengen agreement.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region, an enclave of the russian federation on the baltic sea coast, has all its land borders with eu countries (poland and lithuania) following enlargement in 2004. there has since been a considerable curtailment of all its ties with neighbouring countries. the eu has taken initiatives in recent years to facilitate the movement of kaliningrad residents, such as the facilitated transit document and the facilitated rail transit document. these initiatives have simplified travel between kaliningrad and mainland russia. an agreement between the ec and the russian federation on visa facilitation was also concluded in 2007, which facilitates the issuance of short-stay visas to all russian nationals travelling to the schengen area countries. however, taking into account the specific geographical situation of kaliningrad, these initiatives have proven insufficient in responding to the marginalization of kaliningrad and its residents. therefore, both poland and the russian federation requested amendments to the regulation on small border traffic, taking into account the specific situation of the kaliningrad region. this report thus seeks to provide an answer - which we believe is appropriate and positive - to a problem which persists.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this report by a cypriot member of our political group because we believe it gives a positive answer to a specific issue. the kaliningrad region of the russian federation became an enclave within the european union following the enlargement of the european union in 2004 and has since seen a considerable reduction in all its ties with neighbouring countries. there have been several eu initiatives in recent years that have facilitated the movement of residents of kaliningrad (such as the facilitated transit document and the facilitated rail transit document, which have simplified travel between kaliningrad and mainland russia, or the 2007 agreement between the european community and the russian federation on the facilitation of the issuance of visas, which facilitates the issuance of short-stay visas to all russian nationals travelling to the schengen countries). however, taking into account the specific geographical situation of kaliningrad, these initiatives have proven insufficient in responding to the marginalization of kaliningrad and its residents. therefore, both poland and the russian federation requested amendments to the regulation on small border traffic, taking into account the specific situation of the kaliningrad region.
in writing. − the kaliningrad region has a very specific geographical situation, as it became the only enclave in the eu after the 2004 enlargement, being completely surrounded by two eu member states. it is therefore of fundamental importance in terms of cooperation and exchange in the baltic sea area, and it is important to ensure that the eu's borders cannot act as an obstacle to economic, regional, social and cultural cooperation with these neighbouring countries. this proposal is therefore very important in the context of crossborder cooperation, developed under the european neighbourhood policy, which will help to promote the strategic partnership between the eu and russia and to improve neighbourly relations between the two.
in writing. − this report is based on the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2011 on the amendment of the regulation on the inclusion of the kaliningrad region and certain polish administrative districts in the eligible border area. the aim is therefore to ensure that these regions benefit from the regulation laying down rules on small border traffic at the external land borders of the member states and amending the provisions of the schengen convention. this avoids the creation of barriers to trade, social and cultural exchanges and regional cooperation with neighbouring countries, while preserving the security of the entire schengen area. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1391/2006 of the european parliament and of the council, which lays down rules for short-distance border traffic at the external borders of the member states, allows for a derogation from the rules on border control for neighbouring states, and in these exceptional cases, visa, proof of sufficient means of subsistence and proof of the purpose of entry are not required. this derogation from the regulation is based on the concern to ensure good relations between peoples, without breaking the links (economic, social and cultural) between the different communities, which have a secular tradition. this is the case of the kaliningrad region (german: königsberg), which was part of the soviet union between 1945 and 1992 and since then of the russian federation, and which has a natural border with the baltic sea and a territorial border with poland and lithuania. it is also justified to extend the size of the border zone to a total of 50 km (against a rule of 30 km), in order to avoid a breakdown of a regime which is intended to be single by several artificial zones. i therefore voted in favour, hoping that the agreement would help to facilitate relations between the two areas, which had been made more difficult by the enlargement of 2004.
in writing. - i welcome the signing of the treaty of accession of croatia and see this treaty as a positive political factor in the construction of europe, but draw attention to the need to strengthen european policies aimed at cohesion and the union's socioeconomic and territorial convergence, without which enlargement may have undesirable results.
in writing. - i welcome the enlargement of the european union through the accession of the republic of croatia. croatia has reached a high degree of preparation for accession, which implies continuing respect for the values on which the union is founded and a commitment to promoting them. croatia fulfils the political criteria and is expected to meet the economic and the acquis criteria for accession on 1 july 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation in favour of croatia's accession to the european union. this paves the way for the treaty of accession to be signed on 8 december and subsequently ratified by the 27 member states. however, croatia needs to respond to the challenges that remain, in particular with regard to the judicial system and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
in writing. − in february 2010, i wrote that croatia had been meeting the accession criteria with undeniable success, that it had made efforts to persevere on this path despite the additional difficulties posed by the international environment, and that croatia was a good example for other countries seeking to join the european union. fortunately, croatia's path has not changed and, in accordance with the criteria laid down by the union, it is now ready to join this community of states and peoples. i welcome the croatian people and institutions at this important moment in their history and in our common european history, and i hope that croatia's accession to the union will give new reformist impetus to the balkan states which are not yet part of it, as well as to the european union itself.
in writing. - this proposal for a recommendation, drawn up by hannes swoboda, concerns the treaty concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, one of the three instruments constituting the eu accession process of a country: the treaty, the protocol and the final act. the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu is a moment of great importance for europe and represents a further step in the process of stability for the balkan region. for croatia this stage does not represent the end of a process but merely another stage that has been passed. i would like to stress the historic moment that this accession represents for europe, as was clearly shown by the enthusiasm with which this parliament applauded the adoption of the accession proposal. because we are in the midst of a happy marriage - the eu has an interest in its enlargement to the balkan region and croatia has much to gain from its accession to the single market - i welcome croatia's accession to the eu and i hope that the croatian government will continue the process of democratisation and reforms under way, thus contributing to the designs underlying the construction of the single market.
in writing. - the decision on the accession of croatia, or any other country, to the european union must first of all result from the free expression of the sovereign will of the people of that country. this is all the more important because, obviously, this freedom of expression - which, of course, involves a deep, informed and participatory discussion and a decision - has not always been guaranteed in the past in other cases. we cannot ignore or underestimate the meaning, nature and objectives of this process of integration. what the experience of other countries (and even portugal) shows us is that the process of capitalist integration that the eu embodies has involved the destruction of productive capacity and employment, the growing dependence of the country, an unfavourable, subordinate and peripheral position in the process of the international division of labour, the loss of sovereignty over central elements that would allow our people to realize their longings and aspirations, and which are absolutely necessary for the free determination of their collective future. but the internationalisation of the economy, the international division of labour, the growing cooperation between states and the processes of integration correspond to realities and trends of development not exclusive to capitalism. that is why we are fighting for this other europe, which is not only possible but increasingly necessary.
in writing. - it is the croatian people who must first decide whether or not to join the eu. what the portuguese experience shows us is that the process of capitalist integration of the eu has meant (and means) above all the destruction of productive capacity and employment, the country's growing dependence on the great powers of the eu, the loss of sovereignty over central elements that would allow our people to realize their longings and aspirations. the integration of economies is a dialectical necessity, and its development within the framework of the capitalist system and the unequal development it entails only favours the great powers and monopolies, particularly financial monopolies, impoverishing countries and peoples, sacrificing democracy and making it difficult to fight for economic and social systems which put work and the well-being of the human being as the first and only priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the european union. it fulfils all the criteria for accession to the european union, including the so-called 'copenhagen criteria': the existence of a rule of law, stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities, the existence of a functioning market economy, and the ability to cope with competitive pressure and market forces in the union. the eu's external relations policy is based on the principles of the european union's external relations policy, which is the basis for the eu's external relations policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the european union because i believe that it fully meets the conditions for accession to the union, starting with the so-called copenhagen criteria (now explicitly referred to in the eu treaty), in particular in the areas of democracy, human rights, the independence of the judiciary, good governance, the protection of minorities, the market economy and competition, social protection, etc. after the premature accession of bulgaria and romania, which were clearly not yet in a position to do so, it was important to ensure that new accessions were better prepared and less determined by criteria of political expediency. the eu already has too many problems to solve to avoid the difficulties of absorbing the entry of new countries without the necessary conditions to integrate fully in all areas of european integration (internal market, social europe, area of freedom, security and justice, foreign policy, etc.).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union because i consider, on the basis of the reports submitted to the ep, that the conditions for the candidate country's admission are fulfilled. i stress, however, the commission's duty to monitor further preparations for accession with rigor and objectivity and to help the croatian authorities to fulfil the commitments and obligations undertaken in the negotiations, as well as the need for the commission to regularly inform parliament on the extent to which the croatian authorities are honouring their commitments in order to assume all the obligations of membership from accession on 1 july 2013.
in writing. - having regard to the report by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in the former yugoslavia,
in writing. - the accession of croatia to the european union is a very positive sign for the western balkans region. the set of political and economic criteria established by the copenhagen european council in 1993 and the adaptation and implementation of the eu acquis have been met by croatia as described in the commission opinion of october 2011. croatia's accession to the eu on 1 july 2013 will open a window of hope for the balkan countries, showing that the efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria are bearing fruit. in the specific case of croatia, issues such as the fight against corruption, judicial independence, and the prosecution of war criminals and cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia have caused negotiations to drag on since 2003, when croatia first applied for eu membership. i congratulate the croatian authorities on their efforts, but i would like to stress that the rules of the game must be applied equally to all candidate and potential candidate countries.
in writing. - i approve this report. croatia should continue with reforms, in particular in the fight against corruption and the integration of refugees. the completion of the new accession process and the beginning of the ratification of the accession treaty should in no way stop the reforms that are being carried out.
in writing. − twenty years after the declaration of independence and some eight years after the submission of the application for eu membership, croatia has successfully concluded eu accession negotiations. while the accession process has made a significant contribution to the transformation of croatia into a strong democracy, croatia's accession will make the eu stronger and will have broad implications at european and regional level, giving a positive impetus to the european integration process both in the eu and in the western balkans region. this report, which i supported, stresses the need for croatia to maintain the pace of reforms, maintaining the same intensity and determination after the conclusion of the negotiations and beyond accession. encourages croatia to continue to pursue the reform of the judicial sector in line with the european commission's recommendations. the commission should also take into account the need to ensure that the implementation of the acquis is coordinated with the implementation of the acquis.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia, which bring to an end almost six years of negotiations and several years of preparations which have considerably changed the socio-political, economic and cultural landscape of the country. it is necessary to maintain the pace of reforms, as this process is not complete. i call for it to continue with the same intensity and determination after the conclusion of the negotiations and beyond accession.
in writing. − enlargement is one of the most effective instruments of the eu's external policy and one of the most eloquent proofs of its success. several countries want to get in and none want to get out. throughout its history, the eu has grown from 6 to 27 member states, and this has created problems for its functioning. many therefore argue (and i agree) that the three copenhagen criteria should be supplemented by a fourth: whether the eu is in a position to integrate one more candidate country. apart from doubts about croatia's readiness in some areas of the rule of law, i think it would be unwise, especially at the moment of crisis we are going through, to increase the entropy of the eu by enlarging the number of member states. i would remind you that unanimity is required, particularly when the treaties are amended (and there is a lot of talk about this again). i cannot therefore vote in favour of the recommendation that croatia should now join the eu.
in writing. - i repeat what i said in 2010: i hope that croatia's accession to the european union will be seen in the balkans as a sign of hope and that the other countries in the region, in particular serbia, will recognise the internal and external advantages and benefits of the european option. in the face of objective verification of croatia's fulfilment of the accession criteria, it is time to welcome its application for membership of the union and to welcome croats into our common family. at a time when it is not easy for any of the european states, it is comforting to see that the generous idea underlying our integration process still has the capacity to attract the other european states and that, despite its problems, the european path is the best one we can take together.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by hannes swoboda, deals with the request submitted by croatia, which was approved by the council, as was the draft treaty of accession of the republic of croatia, the protocol and the final act. all the conditions are therefore in place for croatia to join the european union as its 28th member state as from 1 january 2013. it is a very long process, the culmination of which was only possible thanks to the determination of all the politicians involved and a coherent eu policy. only in this way have significant steps been taken in relations between croatia and serbia. however, this process does not end on 9 december in brussels with the signing of the treaty of accession. while much has been done, particularly in the fight against corruption, much remains to be done, particularly in respect for human rights, the consolidation of the rule of law and the fulfilment of all the criteria of the copenhagen agreement. i therefore vote in favour of this report and welcome the way in which this process has been carried out, as an example for other applicants to the eu to follow.
in writing. - we believe that the decision on the accession of croatia, or any other country, to the european union must first of all result from the free expression of the sovereign will of the people of that country. that said, we cannot ignore or underestimate the meaning, nature and objectives of this process of integration. the report lists a number of obligations which croatia will have to fulfil. we are facing the challenge of the neoliberal arguments and the neoliberal agenda that this eu insists on and insists on. it is the sacrosanct rhetoric of free competition, of the social market economy, a euphemistic designation for a capitalist economy which, in fact, as experience has shown us to our satisfaction, is increasingly anti-social. the future of an eu which, as this report shows, guides all its action - in enlargement and other structural policies - by multinational access to markets and raw materials and which imposes policies which destroy productive sectors and jobs cannot be prosperous. for all these reasons we abstained.
in writing. − the successful accession of croatia will have major implications at european level, giving a positive impetus to the european integration process as well as a sign of hope for the balkan area: the certainty that eu accession means a strong incentive for potential candidates for accession in the region to carry out the necessary political, legislative and economic reforms, so that the countries neighbouring croatia fulfil their own obligations in the framework of the process of full eu accession.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, convinced that enlargement of the union is a constituent dimension of the european project, which should be strengthened by the accession of croatia. the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia brings to an end almost six years of negotiations and several years of preparations which have considerably changed the country's socio-political, economic and cultural landscape. accession to the eu will enable croatia to keep up the pace of reforms it has undertaken and to join a project which, given its geographical position, could not but be its own.
in writing. - croatia applied for membership of the european union some eight years ago. in the meantime, there have been profound changes in the political reality of that state, and croatia has been transformed into a solid democracy, based on respect for the rights of the individual, which deserves the applause of the community's policy-makers. on the other hand, if we think of the european union, croatia's accession represents an opening to the balkans and another step towards political union for the whole of europe. in this sense, there is an incentive to consolidate democracy in the various states of the balkan peninsula with a view to possible accession to the common space. in view of these facts, it is necessary to initiate the process of effective entry into the eu. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, in the expectation that the accession of the republic of croatia will be another successful step in the community's history.
in writing. − croatia's accession to the european union on 1 july 2013 brings together eight years of negotiations which deserve full recognition in the face of croatia's transformation into a strong and mature democracy, based on the eu's founding values. this accession will act as a catalyst for reform processes in the countries of the western balkan region. this event will enable croatia and its citizens to enjoy the rights and guarantees enshrined in the treaties of the european union. the croatian authorities must respect the rights and commitments undertaken in the negotiations and encourage the participation of civil society representatives throughout the accession process. in parallel, additional support through the instrument for pre-accession assistance should continue and be appropriate to reform efforts. i am voting in favour of this report and stress that it is still necessary to continue the policies for the reform of the impartial and transparent judicial system, the fight against corruption, transnational organised crime and cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, in particular in the prosecution of war crimes and the integration of refugees and displaced persons.
in writing. - i welcome this report, as do all the measures which contribute to increasing the credibility of politics and, in particular, transparency and confidence in the european parliament.
in writing. the european parliament has approved amendments to the code of conduct for its members. the amendments are designed to increase transparency in the exercise of the mandate and the freedom to vote. the code of conduct also provides for sanctions in the event of breach of the rules laid down, which may go as far as suspension or withdrawal from office in the ep. the principles which should govern and guide the conduct of those elected to the european parliament are ethical and moral responsibility and the scrupulous fulfilment of the duty of honest representation conferred on citizens. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules on the code of conduct for members of the european parliament on financial interests and conflicts of interest, because it introduces rigorous amendments to the code of conduct which should contribute to greater transparency and confidence in the european parliament.
in writing. - it is very important that members of the european parliament exercise their mandates in full independence and transparency. it is therefore welcome that a code of conduct has been adopted which aims to safeguard independence, transparency and avoid conflicts of interest, as is the case in many other sectors of activity, including in several professions which have their own codes of ethics which require healthy self-regulation.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr carlo casini, deals with amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament concerning the code of conduct for members of the european parliament on financial interests and conflicts of interest. the current economic and financial crisis, which many citizens attribute to the wrong decisions of politicians, has placed this profession under very close public scrutiny, which is not unknown to new information technologies, such as wikileaks with the disclosure of confidential information. it is more important than ever that rules on transparency be established in relation to the financial interests of those holding public office. in the case of meps, under article 232 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, it is for the ep to lay down the rules relating to the interests of its members. i am aware that it is not enough to be caesar's wife, you have to look like one, and i am voting in favour of the proposed amendments to the current rules.
in writing. the report essentially considers that the new code of conduct will increase the transparency required for the performance of the duties of elected members of the european parliament. meps will have to submit a declaration of financial interests containing a range of information, including their professional activities in the three years prior to taking up their duties in the ep, among other things. this report follows a number of scandals involving members of the current parliament, some of whom have since resigned. hence the concerns now referred to. we naturally agree with the prohibition on accepting or receiving 'any direct or indirect financial advantage or any other form of reward in return for exercising influence or voting on legislation, motions for resolutions, written statements or questions tabled in parliament or in one of its committees'. the code states that members may not enter into 'any agreement which leads them to act or vote in the interest of a third party, whether natural or legal, which could jeopardise the freedom to vote'. it will be important to assess and monitor its effectiveness.
in writing. - it is stated that the new code of conduct is mainly aimed at increasing transparency. meps will have to submit a declaration of financial interests containing a range of information, including professional activities in the three years before taking up their seats in the ep, participation in committees or boards of directors of companies during the same period, etc. occasional paid outside activities, including writing, lecturing or consulting, will also have to be declared if the remuneration exceeds eur 5 000 per year. we know that this report comes after a number of scandals involving some members who have left the ep. hence the concerns now referred to. for example, the code states that meps may not enter into 'any agreement which leads them to act or vote in the interest of a third party, whether natural or legal, which could compromise the freedom to vote'. they may also not accept or receive 'any direct or indirect financial advantage or any other consideration in return for the exercise of influence or a vote on legislation, motions for resolutions, written statements or questions tabled in parliament or in one of its committees'. we'll see how effective it is.
in writing. - the recent events involving some meps and leading to the resignation of some of them have forced the european parliament to adopt some amendments to the code of conduct for its members. these aim to enhance transparency in the exercise of the mandate and the freedom to vote. the amendments also provide for penalties for breaches of the rules laid down, which may include suspension or withdrawal of the ep's mandate. there are principles which should not be forgotten in the conduct of those elected to the european parliament when they exercise the functions for which they were elected by the citizens of their country: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to the rules of procedure on the code of conduct for members of the european parliament on financial interests and conflicts of interest, considering that it is, on the whole, a good draft. however, i believe that in certain areas more could and should have been done to increase transparency, particularly with regard to the member's income, which should be made public without exception. that is what i stand for and what i have stood for with other colleagues who have also lost this battle.
in writing. − the code of conduct for members of the european parliament on financial interests and conflicts of interest aims to provide the community legal order with instruments to ensure the transparency of decision-making processes, and to prevent situations of abuse of power. in order to make these rules operational, however, amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament are necessary. that is the purpose of this proposal, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i approve this report in so far as the rapporteur substantially justifies the impossibility of maintaining the immunity of viktor uspakich.
in writing. − following the criminal proceedings against mr viktor uspaskich, mep, pending before the vilnius regional court (lithuania), the european parliament decided on 7 september 2010 to lift his parliamentary immunity. not satisfied with this decision, viktor uspaskich lodged two requests for review. one delivered on 5 april 2011 and communicated to this ep at the plenary session of 9 may 2011 and another requested on 11 april 2011 and communicated at the plenary session of 4 july 2011. the ep considered that the two requests related to the same procedure and decided that they should be dealt with together. this report deals with the request of mr viktor uspaskich dated 5 april 2011 for the ep, pursuant to article 7 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, to grant him immunity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the defence are respected.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of a member of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. mep viktor uspaskich is facing charges of offences relating mainly to the falsification of accounting transactions relating to the financing of a political party during a period prior to his election to the european parliament. on 7 september 2010, parliament lifted the immunity of viktor uspaskich, considering that no convincing evidence of fumus persecutionis had been presented and that the criminal offences of which viktor uspaskich is accused have nothing to do with his activities as a member of the european parliament. i therefore vote in favour of not lifting the immunity and privileges of viktor uspaskich.
in writing. - i approve this report in so far as the rapporteur substantially justifies the impossibility of maintaining the privileges of viktor uspakich.
in writing. − following the criminal proceedings against mr viktor uspaskich, pending before the vilnius regional court (lithuania), the european parliament decided on 7 september 2010 to waive his parliamentary immunity. not satisfied with this decision, viktor uspaskich lodged two requests for review. one delivered on 5 april 2011 and communicated to this ep at the plenary session of 9 may 2011 and another requested on 11 april 2011 (plenary session of 4 july 2011). the ep considered that the two requests related to the same procedure and decided that they should be dealt with together. the report concerns the request by mr uspaskich dated 11 april last that the ep review his decision to waive parliamentary immunity taken at the plenary session of 7 september 2010. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr viktor uspaskich. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has taken a position on the matter and unanimously adopted a report in which it decided to waive parliamentary immunity. indeed, it was considered that there was no basis for the allegation of fumus persecutionis in the present case.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. − national parliaments are freely elected and are therefore the representatives and guarantors of the rights acquired and delegated by citizens. the establishment of the european semester should fully respect the prerogatives of national parliaments. i welcome the establishment of the european semester as an institutional process, under the leadership of the eu institutions, with enhanced coordination between member states for the implementation of the union's strategy, particularly in its macroeconomic dimension.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, because it stressed the need to strengthen the parliamentary dimension of economic governance by introducing the european semester codecision procedure and greater cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament.
in writing. - the european semester is now clearly an essential pillar of the new economic governance framework. first enshrined in the first economic governance package, this process is mainly characterised by strengthening economic and budgetary coordination and ensuring the implementation of the eu2020 strategy among member states. the aim is to give national parliaments greater democratic responsibility both in the preparation and subsequent implementation of their national budgets, and at the same time to provide a platform for the exchange of information and best practice in budget implementation. it is undeniable that one of the ways of achieving the necessary fiscal consolidation that europe needs is through a strengthening of economic coordination policies. the present economic context has given further impetus to this need and there is certainly still a lot to be done in this field.
in writing. - this report, by mrs mary honeyball, addresses the problem of early school leaving and the measures and instruments adopted by the european union to support member states in devising more efficient and effective national policies to tackle this problem. the six priority objectives of the europe 2020 strategy include reducing early school leaving to 10% by 2020. it should be noted that in 2009, the school drop-out rate among people aged 18-24 was 14.4%. this is a matter of paramount importance, because by fighting this we are not only raising the self-esteem of citizens, but also improving the quality of life of people, thereby helping to reduce poverty and the number of those who are socially excluded. first, risk groups (ethnic minorities, low-education parents, rural populations, etc.) must be identified, as must the causes of drop-out, such as school failure, and the factors that enhance it, such as poverty, abuse and an unstable family situation. i am aware that solving this problem requires a global approach and the mobilisation of all those involved in the teaching/learning process, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - another nuclear report, because of the relevance of what is at stake and its profound negative implications. another report which, like the other fundamental steps taken in the process of european integration - the meaning of which is clearly visible in the deep economic and social crisis we are facing - has the support of the right and the social democrats. this holy alliance now aims to impose ever greater budgetary discipline on the member states. it seeks to obscure the profoundly negative and reactionary nature of these policies by elevating policy coordination to an end in itself. we have tabled a number of amendments to this report which, unfortunately, have not been adopted and have been rejected by the holy alliance. examples of these changes are: criticism of the measures of the troika's (ec, ecb and imf) programmes of genuine aggression and the so-called austerity policies followed; the defence of an effective fiscal stabilisation policy, which takes account of growth and aims at the redistribution of wealth, sustainable development, job creation and social progress; the need to reverse neoliberal economic policies to overcome the crisis. for all these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. − the imposition of ever-greater budgetary discipline on member states, alongside the dominant economic policies, will not help to recover from this crisis or to prevent the emergence of a future crisis. it can exacerbate its effects, increase inequalities, poverty and unemployment and lead to the impoverishment of peoples. we therefore tabled amendments to this report which were not adopted. some of these changes are as follows: calls on the member states, the council and the commission to take account of the strong and growing opposition of the peoples of europe to the harsh measures of the troika's rescue package and the austerity policies pursued; considers that budgetary policy is an important instrument in the management of economic and development policy, but the introduction of the european semester and the stifling effects of the early coordination of budgetary policy will deprive member states of the capacity and flexibility needed to pursue an effective stabilisation policy aimed at redistribution of wealth, sustainable development and job creation, providing an adequate set of public services and infrastructure for citizens; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. unfortunately, they were all rejected.
in writing. − the european semester is a process of coordinating the economic policies of the member states and is led by the european union with the aim of achieving budgetary discipline while ensuring compliance with the europe 2020 strategy. it is very important that the european institutions have taken further measures to help member states to correct excessive deficits and to establish greater coordination of their economic and budgetary policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its main lines and recommendations. i stress the need for the commission and the member states to strengthen support for smes, which are the backbone of the single market economy, in line with the findings of the annual growth survey, in particular through the full implementation of the small business act and through a package of measures to remove the obstacles smes face in accessing finance. this is a measure that is very much needed in the outermost regions.
in writing. the european semester for the coordination of economic policies was designed to test a model for the coordination of european and national economic and financial policies. today, any attempt to conceptualize the political world that is intended to explain the present reality will tend to draw attention to the networked political reality or, preferably, to the polyarchic power and networks of inter-constitutionality. this seeks to explain how the decisions of any one political actor have an impact on all the others. the question therefore arises as to how far democratic legitimacy can be brought into play in a context where traditional decision-making processes no longer seem to offer a sufficient answer. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. otherwise, political power will lose much of its legitimacy, and this will call into question the fundamental choices that must be made. that is what i see in the report, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european semester is the process of coordinating the economic policies of the member states, and is conducted by the european union with the aim of verifying the application of budgetary discipline and ensuring compliance with the europe 2020 strategy. i agree with this report because the european institutions have taken new measures to help member states to correct excessive deficits and to establish greater coordination of economic and budgetary policies. however, i would like to stress that the european semester cannot and should not replace the democratic legitimacy of the european parliament and the national parliaments, and that the situation should always be monitored by the respective parliamentary committee. as a member of the committee on regional development, i would like to stress that only a strong cohesion policy with a sound financial basis is an effective and efficient instrument for implementing the europe 2020 strategy, and it is important to highlight its long-term development programmes, budgetary dimension and decentralised management system.
in writing. - i welcome this report, highlighting some of the most relevant points for strengthening our internal market: the potential for the use of a european professional charter, an efficient system for dispute resolution, a single point of contact, the review of procurement legislation and the commitment of heads of state and government to comply with the single market act.
in writing. − the single market has brought enormous benefits to 500 million europeans and provided new opportunities for european businesses to expand. this resolution suggests that one-stop shops become true e-government centres, allowing businesses to complete and manage administrative formalities online. the digital single market shall be completed by overcoming technical barriers to cross-border trade and cross-border service provision. the public procurement sector needs to be professionalised and smes' participation in the award of public contracts improved. this resolution also calls for an effective, accessible and simple alternative dispute settlement system. it is emphasised that the single market contributes to innovation, which, supported by initiatives coordinated by the european commission and the commitment of the member states, will create new opportunities for businesses, in particular smes, thus fostering job creation and social cohesion, as well as providing sustainable economic growth and responding to the social needs of eu consumers and citizens. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the single market forum should become a regular event, in order to allow businesses and citizens, as well as local and regional authorities, to participate directly and contribute to the development of the future of the single market.
in writing. − the single market and related policies have benefited 500 million european consumers and 21 million european businesses and have been a driver of economic growth. at a time when everything is being played out at european level, i would like to stress the importance of the single market for european integration itself, for greater social cohesion, sustainable development, competitiveness and economic growth, which will enable us to face the constraints of today and future developments and to compete in a globalised world. in this sense, i think it is appropriate to create a regular forum to reflect on the future and the development of the single market.
in writing. − this motion for a resolution, tabled following a statement by the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2), concerns the holding of the first single market forum in the polish city of krakow on 3 and 4 october 2011. the economic crisis must not make us forget the human dimension of reforms, namely the well-being of citizens, consumers, workers and savers. the aim of this forum, which brought together more than 1300 participants (companies, social partners, ngos, european institutions, public authorities, etc.), was to discuss strategies to improve the functioning of the single market, such as promoting the mobility of european citizens through the automatic recognition of professional qualifications, streamlining the alternative system of online dispute resolution, transforming the one-stop shops, defending consumers when shopping online, creating the european patent, etc. i am voting in favour of this resolution and welcome the attention paid to smes, the real engine of the european economy, which can help to overcome the current economic and financial crisis by means of sustainable economic growth, thus making the single market economy increasingly dynamic and competitive.
in writing. - we are faced with an initiative and a resolution which are emblematic for the majority of this parliament. the opening recital of the resolution is quite revealing, stating that the european single market has brought enormous benefits to 500 million europeans, while providing new opportunities for expansion for more than 21 million european companies and has become the real engine of growth for the european economy. there is one fundamental thing to be said: the problem is that, in the concrete conditions in which this process of integration is taking place, for some these opportunities have actually been realised, while for others they have been nothing more than promises, always delayed, which have turned into nightmares. for some, it was expansion. for others, the slow agony and disappearance. free competition has made life easier for economic and financial groups, but it has worsened unemployment, increased the bankruptcy of many smes and has not improved the living conditions of the general population, as the current crisis is demonstrating. for these reasons, and in view of the above, we cannot but disagree with the pressure here to deepen the single market. the pressure that flourishes around consultation and participation is essentially unchanged.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution, which states in its first paragraph: 'whereas the european single market has brought enormous benefits to 500 million europeans, while providing new opportunities for expansion for more than 21 million european companies, and has become the real engine of growth for the european economy'. this is unacceptable, given that free competition has made life easier for economic and financial groups, but has exacerbated unemployment, increased the number of micro and small enterprises that fail, and has not improved the living conditions of the general population, as the current crisis is showing. so while the single market forum may become a regular event that allows businesses and citizens, as well as local and regional authorities, to participate directly and influence the future development of the single market, the truth is that the current reality is quite different from what this report claims. we also disagree with the pressure here to deepen the single market.
in writing. − this single market forum, which took place in krakow on 3-4 october 2011, brought together european businesses, social partners, non-governmental organisations, think tanks, journalists, national parliaments, european institutions, public authorities at different levels and european citizens and, in my view, should be organised at a regular basis to allow everyone to have a greater influence on the future development of the single market. the resolution calls on the commission to present the 12 priorities of the single market act by the end of 2011 to enable the council and the european parliament to adopt a first package of priority measures by the end of 2012 and to give a new impetus to the single market, which is crucial for the growth of the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the european parliament's call on the commission and the member states to involve citizens and other stakeholders more in the development of the single market, in particular by organising timely and more proactive public consultations on the new legislation, in partnership with national and local stakeholders and social partners, as well as ngos and the media.
in writing. − the recent single market forum brought together, following the list presented by the rapporteur, european companies, social partners, non-governmental organisations, think tanks, journalists, national parliaments, european institutions, public authorities at different levels and european citizens. the question then was to reflect on the european system of free movement of persons, goods, services and capital which at present allows the free movement of 500 million people. this was the background to the common project, which succeeded in strengthening interdependence by means of closer trade relations between peoples, thus making europe a place of peace and harmony. the single market, or its potential, deserves to be reflected on by european analysts, and the community institutions should be committed to continually strengthening the mechanisms of economic integration, without losing sight of the reason for their existence. these are points on which i reflect and which therefore deserve my positive appraisal.
in writing. − the single market forum, held in krakow, poland, from 3 to 4 october 2011, brought together european businesses, social partners, ngos, think tanks, journalists, national parliaments, european institutions, public authorities at different levels and european citizens, and should become a regular event allowing businesses and citizens, as well as local and regional authorities, to participate directly and influence the future development of the single market. the motion for a resolution, which i support, calls on the commission to present the 12 priorities of the single market act by the end of 2011, to enable the council and the european parliament to adopt a first package of priority measures by the end of 2012 and to give a new impetus to the single market, which is the real engine of growth in the european economy. the european parliament also invited the commission to cooperate with the member states, candidate countries and eea partners in organising and promoting major public events in 2012 to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the single market.
in writing. − i support this report, stressing that the commission and the member states must ensure adequate funding and investment to carry out the research needed to effectively implement hiv programmes that promote equal temporary access to hiv testing, treatment and cure for all. i also call on all member states to direct their policies towards ending the discrimination and social exclusion normally associated with people living with hiv/aids, in order to protect their fundamental rights.
in writing. − the hiv/aids epidemic has been a priority issue for the european union. the eu is particularly committed to promoting prevention and public awareness, improving surveillance systems, networking with key partners involved in the fight against hiv/aids and encouraging the dissemination of good practice. unfortunately, hiv infections, particularly in eastern europe, are increasing at an alarming rate, and there are also a large number of cases of infected patients who remain undiagnosed. in this connection, this motion for a resolution calls for urgent transfrontier and transdisciplinary cooperation to combat the epidemic. special attention remains needed to the problems faced by the eu's neighbouring countries, given that hiv/aids and other sexually transmitted infections know no borders. i regret that questions concerning abortion and emergency contraception have been included in this resolution. i understand that these questions are outside the scope of this resolution and raise ethical questions of great sensitivity. i therefore voted against that paragraph and consequently abstained in the final vote on the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that hiv/aids infection is a preventable disease and that primary preventive interventions such as the provision of information, new skills, better services, goods needed to protect against the virus and the promotion of safer behaviours are essential to prevent the spread of hiv. i am aware of the urgent need to strengthen the development and application of comprehensive prevention approaches, alongside continued investment in research and development of new prevention technologies, and i hereby express my support for this report.
in writing. - the rate at which hiv infections are increasing in europe is frankly alarming, with particular relevance to the eastern european area. in 2009, more than 25 000 new cases of hiv infection were diagnosed in the eu. it is therefore essential that there is cross-border and transdisciplinary cooperation that can help to combat the epidemic and it is unacceptable that there is still such a marked difference between member states in terms of access to hiv prevention, treatment and support services. i therefore support the urgent need for more equitable access to prevention, testing and treatment in the eu, while ensuring the necessary resources. i think that the text of the resolution is, on the whole, quite balanced and correctly conveys the view that it is hiv and not the hiv-positive that must be tackled. unfortunately, sectarian pressure from some has led to the introduction of the unintended reference to abortion. i shall therefore be unable to vote in favour, stressing the contradiction between the defence of health and life and the attempt to justify abortive practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that access to hiv/aids prevention, testing and treatment should be more equitable in the eu. the eu must be given the resources it needs to combat this scourge. the economic and financial crisis must not have a negative impact on investments in areas essential for the fight against this disease.
in writing. − on world aids day, i reaffirm my absolute commitment to advocating a global, humane and effective response to hiv/aids and the certainty that the way forward is to improve access to prevention and available treatment, as the text of this resolution advocates. however, i could not vote in favour of the text, since a paragraph was adopted in its body which defends, and i quote, 'access to safe and legal abortion'. because i consider this to be a matter for the member states and not for the european union, and moreover because i believe that a major resolution on the eu's global response to the scourge of hiv/aids is not the place to defend 'access to safe and legal abortion', i abstained in the final vote on the text. but on this day, i continue to call on all member states to continue to invest in equitable access to hiv/aids prevention, diagnosis and treatment, so that the serious economic crisis we are experiencing is not a terrible opportunity for new infections and undiagnosed and untreated cases to increase.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution, tabled following a question for oral answer under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure and taking the form of a mid-term review of the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament entitled 'the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and neighbouring countries 2009-2013', deals with the overall european union response to hiv/aids, not only in the eu but also in neighbouring countries. despite the progress made in the fight against this scourge, we cannot rest our hands, as in 2009 in the eu and neighbouring countries there were 161 000 new cases out of a total of over 2.2 million, 45% of whom are women under 20 years old! it is essential to invest in information and to avoid social exclusion. i am in solidarity with the victims and i join those who are working to wipe this scourge from the face of the planet. i call on all member states and all eu institutions to do their utmost to eradicate this disease and to combat the exclusion of victims.
in writing. − hiv infections are increasing in europe at an alarming rate. in 2009, nearly 26 000 new cases were diagnosed and reported by member states and european economic area countries, but in the eu's neighbouring countries more than 160 000 people were infected. these figures show that any slackening of hiv control efforts is intolerable. it is a pity that the same majority that solemnly recognises this when it comes to marking world aids day, turns a blind eye and turns its back on the disinvestment that has been made, both in the area of prevention and in the fight against it. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. austerity that this majority here endorses. in portugal, the decision in recent days to close the telephone helpline (line sida) is revealing, together with a number of other measures that compromise much-needed efforts in both prevention and treatment. it is important to take into account that access to prevention, treatment and support services is very unequal across member states and to make efforts to reduce these differences by investing the necessary resources to ensure equitable access to these services in each country.
in writing. - we know that hiv infections are increasing in europe at a worrying rate. in 2009, nearly 26 000 new cases were diagnosed and reported by member states and countries of the european economic area. but in the eu's neighbouring countries, more than 160,000 people were infected. these figures show that any slackening of hiv control efforts is intolerable. it is a pity that the same majority that solemnly recognizes this when it comes to marking world aids day, turns a blind eye and turns its back on the disinvestment that has been made, both in the area of prevention and in the fight against it, by making budgetary cuts. in portugal, the decision in recent days to close the telephone helpline (line sida) is revealing, together with a number of other measures that compromise much-needed efforts in both prevention and treatment. it is important to take into account that access to prevention, treatment and support services is very unequal across member states and to make efforts to reduce these differences by investing the necessary resources to ensure equitable access to these services in each country.
in writing. − the fight against aids must have a global response and commitment, where preventive measures and strategies are the key to reducing the number of infected. the information, quality of services and goods needed to protect against transmission and promote safe behaviour are essential for effective control. it is regrettable, however, that in this resolution the opportunity has been taken to include questions relating to abortion and emergency contraception. i believe that these questions are outside the scope of this resolution and should be dealt with with a different responsibility, raising serious ethical questions. i voted against that paragraph and, since it was approved by a majority of members, i abstained from the final vote on the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with most of its lines. i would like to stress, however, that stigma and discrimination must be combated, since they make it considerably more difficult to combat the spread of hiv/aids.
in writing. − currently, the number of people living with hiv in the european union and neighbouring countries is estimated at 2.2 million. as you know, this is a disease whose transmission is preventable and for which, of course, proper prevention can reduce the rate of infection to levels very close to zero. on the other hand, early detection of infection can considerably reduce its health effects. statistical data suggest that in these cases of timely treatment, the infection rate is reduced by 96%. in this context, a holistic approach is warranted, which allows, under multiple layers, to increase the information available to citizens both at the preventive level and at the subsequent level of disease control.
in writing. − according to estimates by the united nations and the world health organisation (who), there are about 2.2 million people living with the human immunodeficiency virus (hiv), with an increase in diagnosed and reported cases both at european level (with an alarming growth in eastern europe) and worldwide. another alarming fact is that, according to the european center for disease prevention and control, about 30 percent of those infected do not know that they are infected. the fight against aids must have a global and transdisciplinary response and commitment, in which preventive measures and strategies are the key to reducing the number of infected. the information, quality of services and goods needed to protect against transmission and promote safe behaviour are essential for effective control. against this background, it is necessary for member states and each european region to have a strategy adapted to their reality, with a focus on universal access to prevention, testing, counselling and treatment, thus avoiding stigmatisation and discrimination of hiv carriers. as the 15-24 age group is an increasingly vulnerable target, public policies need to be targeted at this group.
in writing. - i approve this report in the belief that ukraine's association with the eu will allow ukraine to make many improvements in the areas of justice and democratic principles.
in writing. − the eu is committed to a stable and democratic ukraine, which respects the principles of a social and inclusive market economy, the rule of law, including an independent judiciary, human rights and the protection of minorities, and which guarantees fundamental rights. ukraine's efforts are directed towards developing a european perspective for the country, in particular by consolidating internal political stability, creating an environment characterised by sound political pluralism, democratic freedoms and respect for the rule of law. i therefore support the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas on the negotiations on the eu-ukraine association agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that it contains important recommendations for strengthening the existing framework of cooperation between the eu and ukraine in various fields, in particular the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, energy and trade relations.
in writing. - i hope that the european union and ukraine can resume the path of convergence they have been following, and that ukraine will not fail to carry out the necessary reforms to enable it to join the european union, which i hope and support will happen sooner rather than later. it is fair to acknowledge that ukraine has undertaken a major reform effort which should be valued and encouraged by the european union.
in writing. the report under review focuses on the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas concerning the negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and ukraine. the eu's european neighbourhood policy provides for the gradual opening up of certain european union programmes to the participation of neighbouring countries with the aim of promoting reforms, modernisation and often democratisation. ukrainian political and state leaders have repeatedly expressed ukraine's intention to join the eu in the medium term, despite the condemnation of this parliament on 11 october for the trial and conviction of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko. ukraine, in addition to having carried out a set of public administration reforms, has been actively involved in the creation and work of the euronest parliamentary assembly - a platform for cooperation between the ep and the national parliaments of the eu's eastern neighbourhood. the new generation of ukrainians has strong pro-european ambitions. i therefore vote in favour of this report in the hope that it will contribute to the democratisation and consolidation of the rule of law in ukraine.
in writing. - ukraine, because of its geostrategic importance and natural resources (including energy), has been a preferred target for the european union. the proposals in the report are not unusual in the economic sense. nor is it strange that the principles which the eu itself claims to uphold, namely the separation of powers, impartiality or transparency and the independence of the judiciary from the political power, are being disregarded, as is the attempt to influence the proceedings brought by the ukrainian judicial institutions against yulia tymoshenko. we reject all the external interference that this report promotes, in the continuation of other political guidelines that do not take into account the interests of the ukrainian people or the peoples of the eu countries, but rather of the economic and financial monopolies, of which the proposal for the creation of a free trade area is another example.
in writing. − ukraine is of great geo-strategic importance to the eu as a regional player with a high level of influence in neighbouring countries. the association agreement commits ukraine to applying a large part of the community acquis. ukraine's efforts to consolidate internal political stability, to create an environment characterised by strong political pluralism, democratic freedoms and respect for the rule of law, and to further internal reforms are facilitating the development of the country's european perspective. however, recent political developments, in particular the use of judicial means for political combat, show that there is still a long way to go to speed up the process for future eu accession, namely the fulfilment of all the conditions required by the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, in which i stress the call for intensified cooperation on youth and student exchanges and the development of scholarship programmes, allowing ukrainians to become familiar with the european union and its member states and vice versa.
in writing. - with the recent enlargements of the european union, ukraine is now at the doorstep of the common space. it is a state which occupies a geostrategically important area not only as a possible trading partner but above all as a guarantor of peace and security in a region where the rule of law is not yet established. in this context, recent concerns about ensuring a fair criminal trial (in the case of the detention of yulia tymoshenko) are recalled. however, these elements should not contribute to increasing mistrust between the two areas, but above all to encouraging community action in support of ukraine, based on mutual recognition between the two areas. the eu can assert itself in this context as a genuine regional power in respect for human rights and in defence of the rule of law. i therefore look back at the resolution and vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the instrumentalisation of judicial institutions for partisan and political purposes which has been taking place in ukraine reveals that there are still obstacles to the promotion of the fundamental rights and guarantees of ukrainian citizens. the events of the past month call into question one of the eu's fundamental values: the rule of law and freedom of thought and of the press. this association agreement, which also includes a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), is a document that opens a new door to eu agreements with third countries, as it presupposes a very high degree of integration, through the incorporation of the community acquis. such agreements, which should serve as an example for the countries of the neighbourhood policy, leave open the possibility of future accession. the reform policy pursued by ukraine focuses on institutional, economic and social areas. the strategic importance of ukraine for the eu is undeniable. however, we must avoid playing a double game, forgetting the founding principles of the eu, which are the basis of all european policies. i think it is important to get the commitment of the ukrainian authorities to restore the rule of law.
in writing. - i welcome this report as a message that to achieve a modern system of customs arrangements, we must strengthen the eu's competitiveness, while promoting security, market surveillance, consumer protection and our financial interests.
in writing. − support an efficient customs union, as the free movement of goods is one of the cornerstones of the european integration process, economic development and growth in the internal market. i am aware that customs play a crucial role in ensuring safety, protecting consumers and the environment, ensuring the full collection of revenue, strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and ensuring respect for intellectual property rights, and i hereby express my support for their modernisation.
in writing. − the modernisation of customs systems plays a key role in ensuring security, protecting intellectual property rights, fighting fraud and updating and adapting systems to evolving technology. this is a bold and innovative report. the modernised customs code (mcc), adopted in 2008, plays a key role in simplifying customs procedures and harmonising eu customs rules, thereby helping economic operators to carry out their activities more effectively and customs authorities to do their job more efficiently. however, the cam is not yet applicable as the it systems have not yet been implemented and/or developed. consequently, the progress made to date is indicative of a failure to meet the deadline for implementation (set at 24 june 2013). i agree, however, that it is appropriate to delay the implementation of the cap, especially since the vast majority of member states and trade representatives support this option. it is also important to ensure cooperation between customs authorities and, subsequently, between customs authorities and economic operators, as well as with government authorities. i accept that it may be necessary to set up a european customs agency for this purpose.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of customs regimes, as it contains proposals which will contribute to greater product safety and consumer protection, as well as to strengthening the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. - the role of customs in europe's economic competitiveness is of the utmost importance, as they not only guarantee citizens' safety, but also protect consumers and intellectual property rights, collect revenue and help to fight fraud and corruption. in order to fulfil these functions to the full, they need to be modernised. however, all indications are that the deadline for implementing the rules contained in the modernised customs code will not be respected by all member states. this code will make it possible to introduce an electronic customs system, a single-contact system and a centralised service. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for greater cooperation between the various customs services, allowing for an improvement in their activities of excellence and the rapid implementation of the modernised customs code.
in writing. the european union's objective of creating a single market in which barriers between member states are removed and only external borders with respect to external countries are maintained requires the adoption of exceptional measures in order not to jeopardise european economic competitiveness, which is essential for the revitalization of the internal market. the report by matteo salvini, which i voted for, deals with the modernisation of customs regimes and stresses the role played by customs in securing and protecting property rights, protecting authors and fighting fraud. in order to simplify customs procedures and harmonise customs rules, the modernised customs code (mcc) was adopted in 2008 and has a deadline of 24 june 2013 for application. however, several member states contested this deadline because of the delay in implementing the computer systems necessary for its operation. it is therefore urgent to solve this problem in the light of the added value of the cap, namely coordination between all member states, facilitation of business activity by economic operators and better control by the tax administration. it will also facilitate the movement of legitimate goods and product safety.
in writing. − the report considers that a smooth, simple and functional customs system is essential to facilitate the mobility of goods and trade in the internal market, especially for smes. we agree that the modernisation of the eu's customs strategy and instruments must have a budget that allows for a functional, efficient and simplified customs procedure policy. but we have some reservations about the vision inspired by the rapporteur, since, taken to its ultimate consequences, it does not always take into account the interests and basic national productions, as in agriculture and other food areas. moreover, it does not always take account of the interests of smes themselves, which are exposed to competition from much larger companies eager to increase their share of the existing market and of new markets. in summary, member states should therefore make the resources correspond to the customs procedures and procedures appropriate in each case. in particular, the development of computer systems is essential for the much needed modernization of customs. customs must therefore put particular emphasis on using the limited resources available in the field of risk management, ensuring the protection and security of the market and society, and border protection at the eu's external borders.
in writing. the report considers that a smooth, simple and functional customs system is essential to facilitate the mobility of goods and trade in the internal market, especially for smes. it is a concept which we do not support globally, since it does not always take into account the interests and basic national productions, as in agriculture and other food areas. but we agree that the modernisation of the customs strategy and the customs instruments of the european union should have a budget which allows for a policy of functional, efficient and simplified customs procedures. member states should match resources to the ever-increasing responsibilities of customs and the allocation of adequate financial resources, in accordance with budgetary frameworks, to customs procedures and processes, particularly the development of computerised systems, is essential for the achievement of much-needed customs modernisation. customs must therefore put particular emphasis on using the limited resources available in the field of risk management, ensuring the protection and security of the market and society and border protection at the external borders of the european union. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - european economic competitiveness is of crucial importance, particularly for the revitalisation of the internal market. customs have a key role to play in this context in increasing competitiveness. simplifying existing legislation and promoting electronic systems are essential to boosting economic growth by making customs modern and active. the creation of a european customs agency to deal with customs matters is also worth mentioning, thus facilitating cooperation between the entities concerned and ensuring security and accountability in the context of the flow of transparent information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses the importance of ensuring that legitimate customs controls carried out by third countries are not misused in certain circumstances to create de facto new non-tariff barriers to goods from the european union. in the present economic context, in particular, these artificial barriers must be combated.
in writing. - by introducing a system of control of products entering the common market, customs are, on the one hand, a means of ensuring the safety of goods moving within the european area, but, on the other, a barrier to the free movement of goods. legislation must therefore be balanced between these two opposite concerns: to defend the competitiveness of the european area, without, however, calling into question the central concerns of community action. the modernised customs code, introduced in 2008, was designed to achieve this by introducing control mechanisms marked by procedural simplification. however, its potential has not yet been fully realised and some additional activities still need to be developed with a view to its full implementation. finally, this is an area where the highest level of cooperation between the administrative authorities of the various member states is required in order to ensure the uniform application of union law. these are points which i found in the resolution before the european parliament, and which i therefore voted in favour of.
in writing. − the competitiveness of the european union is of great importance, especially at the present time when there is a prospect of revitalizing the european single market. in this context, customs regimes play a significant role, in particular through the simplification of customs legislation and the promotion of its electronic and digital component. however, if the customs systems of the member states are to make a real contribution to improving european competitiveness, modernisation, increased cooperation, greater action and responsibility must be accompanied by guarantees of safety and efficiency.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the commission's proposal to extend the agreement is caught in the tight curve of its own inconsistencies and contradictions. the commission commissioned and paid an external consultancy firm to carry out an ex post evaluation of the four years of the agreement. the assessment carried out is clearly negative, either from the economic point of view, taking into account the usefulness of the agreement for the member states' fleets, or from the ecological point of view, taking into account the dangerous state of conservation of several stocks, or from the point of view of the positive impact on the moroccan fishing sector, which is extremely small or nonexistent, as in other cases. the commission was informed of the outcome of this evaluation and stated that the report did not necessarily reflect the commission's position. but it has not, as was required, counterposed the analysis made there, the objective data that would allow it to be refuted. but the most serious issue with this agreement, which justified our opposition to it in 2005 and which, in the same way, justifies our opposition to it today, is that it is an illegal agreement under international law. the agreement signed with morocco provides for the exploitation of a natural resource over which morocco has no sovereignty under international law. since 1975, with the opinion of the international court of justice, until today, morocco's sovereignty over the territory of western sahara has never been recognized. by including the waters of western sahara, this agreement disregards all relevant resolutions of the united nations general assembly, in particular the 2009 resolution on economic and other activities affecting the interests of the peoples of the non-self-governing territories. it should be noted that the legitimate representatives of the sarawi people were never heard about this agreement, they were completely ignored in this process, as they wanted. and this is an obligation arising, contrary to what the commissioner said, from international law, and not just from morocco's claims that the people of western sahara benefit from this agreement. i should like to say that we do not take a principled position against fisheries agreements with third countries. on the contrary, we have supported several of them, despite their many limitations and shortcomings. but these agreements must be the result of the free expression of the sovereign will of the countries and peoples concerned and must not provide cover for the plundering of natural resources as is happening here. the european union is thus unfortunately complicit in this. the only solution in this scenario, as far as we are concerned, is to exclude the waters of western sahara from this agreement and to start a process of dialogue with the legitimate representatives of the sarawi people... (the president cut the speaker off)
the external dimension of the cfp in general, and the partnership agreements with third countries in particular, are an essential part of the cfp. and the eu-morocco agreement is one of the most important for the southern european fleet, coming at a political moment when it is important not to close doors. the partnership agreements make it possible for the community fleet to be present in the external fishing grounds traditionally frequented by the european union and which are indispensable for obtaining important fishery products which contribute to ensuring europe's food supply. at the same time, they also play a major role in the economies of third countries and their social development. however, it is required that the european union's action at international level be consistent with the principles and objectives of the cfp, in particular the sustainability and preservation of marine ecosystems. in this context, the new sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco should be guided by sustainable management of fisheries resources through a transparency clause ensuring that exploitation of resources by community vessels in third country waters is limited to resources that they cannot or do not intend to capture. the new eu-morocco agreement should therefore have a credible scientific basis and an effective method of monitoring and monitoring its implementation, safeguarding the interest of the community fleet, ecosystems and local populations, which should also benefit from the agreement. in this respect, and in general terms, i cannot but regret that the high standards of action proposed by the european union, respect for local populations and safeguarding their fishing heritage, are not common to other fleets which sometimes operate in the same waters, which, incidentally, will happen in a wild way if the european fleet withdraws.
ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on a very special agreement because part of its subject matter is illegally occupied territory, as the united nations has already determined. this means that we are not talking about the natural resources of morocco alone, which are the subject of this agreement, but of the natural resources of a people who do not have the right - or have not had the right - to self-determination. as a portuguese member of parliament, this case cannot but remind me of the case of east timor, where the european union repeatedly criticised australia for trading with indonesia the natural resources of a country that was illegally occupied. no member who has defended the timorese cause in this house can in good conscience vote for an agreement of this kind, which would make the european union the recipient of resources that are not its own and that are not those of the country with which it is negotiating and which would make us accomplices in a theft that has not yet been compensated, that has not yet been corrected. there can be no agreement of any kind on the natural resources of a people who have not had the right to self-determination as long as that people cannot talk about their resources.
first of all, i would like to congratulate our colleague mr böge on the enormous effort he has put into this and the results achieved at the end of a complex process for the continuation of the iter project. iter is the largest international scientific research cooperation project involving research centres, universities and is of great importance for the development of science. i welcome the agreement reached on iter's financing needs. however, i would stress the concerns expressed by the committee on industry, energy and research and parliament in general about the source of funding, namely funding iter but without prejudice to the funding allocated to the science and innovation framework programme of the seventh framework programme. on the other hand, i would also draw attention to the various mistakes made in the past in the management of the iter project. careful and responsible management must be ensured in the future. i therefore call for an efficient governance system to be put in place to ensure that all the requirements necessary for the efficient implementation of the iter project are met.
in writing. there is no denying our support for the iter project in view of the international commitments it has made, the importance it has for future energy sustainability and its contribution to european technological development. but it is also undeniable that a project of this nature involves significant technological risks, which are common to projects of a scientific and technological nature. there are also planning and management risks inherent in a highly complex project. inadequate management of such risks has in the recent past led to the budgetary bankruptcy of the project. we must make up for the mistakes we made. we must learn from them. measures must be taken to prevent its recurrence in the future. if the use of surplus funds for agriculture and administration is accepted and understood, it is regrettable that for the remaining financial needs of the iter project, it is attempted to insist on the use of funds from the seventh framework programme, which is a vital instrument of budgetary policy to achieve the eu 2020 objectives: economic growth, job creation, competitiveness. the union's strategic priorities must be kept clear. it is regrettable that they succumb at every opportunity to the constraints of the context and the established budgetary status quo, seeking to empty the instruments aimed at reviving european competitiveness.
it is good that there is greater protection for victims of violence, in accordance with the principle of the application of mutual recognition. we know that women are the main victims of persecution, harassment and violence, and therefore interventions are needed at different levels to protect women, but also to protect all those who are victims of human trafficking. we know that this is an important step, but it is not yet all that we would like to see decided in this field. it is a challenge that remains, but it is also a positive aspect in the visibility it gives to this situation and, let us say, in the attempt to gather wills to protect women victims of violence and all those and those who are in this situation.
mr president, we are faced with yet another free trade anthem, an anthem of those who frequent this house. those who chant it usually want to convince us that it is the obstacles to free trade, the barriers to free trade, that keep progress and prosperity from reigning over the earth. the reality is quite different and the truth is that the liberalization and deregulation of world trade have led to phenomena of social dumping, environmental dumping, which we cannot ignore here, either by putting in competition labour from different origins, lowering, forcing a devaluation of the labour force, or by the unsustainable flows of energy and material which are necessarily associated with it. in this case, however, in the desire to remove any and all barriers, it is even necessary to call into question measures which are in the public interest by giving that public interest a restrictive conception. i think that if this crisis we are facing demonstrates anything, it is precisely that we must question the role today attributed to free trade and orient international trade essentially towards complementarity and not towards competition between countries, products and producers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr robert sturdy, on this important, timely and accurate report, which i believe deserves the strong support of this parliament. the european union must give high priority to reducing unjustified or excessive non-tariff barriers to international trade and foreign investment. firstly, because it is a constitutional directive, since article 206 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union explicitly refers to the progressive abolition of restrictions on international trade and foreign investment, including the lowering of non-customs barriers. secondly, because it is in our interest to do so, since some of our most important trading partners, such as japan, china, russia and others, maintain a large number of non-tariff barriers which limit the possibilities for our companies in these markets. they expect our support for growth and jobs in the union.
mr president, the european council was a waste of time. the union was divided, the presidents of the commission and the council were disrespected and the european parliament was ignored. the council's conclusions do not mention the role of the european parliament and the national parliaments. and i ask my colleagues: are we not going to react? i understand the disguised dissatisfaction of mr barroso and mr van rompuy and i would like to express my solidarity with them. i would also like to know what you think of this new treaty, which is contrary to the previous ones and which will be prepared without the knowledge of the parliaments. the summit's main objectives were to save the euro and calm the markets. to save the euro, the council is proposing an intergovernmental treaty, which is a legal aberration and an attack on democracy. to calm the markets, he proposes more austerity and sanctions, which have the opposite effect. without a strategy for economic growth, it is not possible to reassure the markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the austerity measures will lead to economic recession, decreased consumption and exports, increased bankruptcies and unemployment. a vicious circle which, if not quickly broken, will kill the euro and destroy the european union. will the citizens allow the dream of monnet and schuman to turn into a nightmare?
mr president, president of the council, president of the commission, i would first like to say that i have always looked at this moment in the union as a moment when we would probably need an intergovernmental approach. not because i do not believe in the community method, but because the lisbon treaty was not a sufficient basis for the reforms that had to be made in my view, and therefore it was perhaps necessary for us to go through this moment as the european union has often gone through it. i don't see anything dramatic about it. but i see that now, when we have reached agreement on the so-called budgetary or fiscal union, we must pass on some of the powers that will result to the community institutions, to the commission in particular, and to parliament, which must find its own role here, of course in conjunction with the council and the commission. i think this is fundamental to a constructive approach. there are also other aspects which are not directly related to the activities of the various actors, in particular those which concern the european central bank and its capacity to intervene. the european central bank is independent, but it must now use that independence to strengthen and give credibility to the steps, even if some of them are timid, which have now been taken. and this is somehow induced in the council's own conclusions because the european central bank is now associated with the mechanism and the fund, and this is a very important sign that there is a strategy here, let us say, concerted, or at least, in fact, they appear in coherence and some capacity. it is therefore also a matter of working on the legal aspects, so that we here in parliament, with our political strength, can also democratize the conclusions of this council in some way. i am not optimistic, but i am confident in spite of everything and i believe that steps have been taken which could be the beginning of a solution. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i appreciate the question, but i honestly don't know what information you have about the marseille congress that would lead you to say that. i believe that the marseille congress produced a set of declarations which were very important for the subsequent constructive steps in the council's declarations. i will say that i am not satisfied with the council's resolutions because i am a federalist and would like to go much further. but i 'll tell you one thing: it is not surprising, however, that 26 of the 27 countries have been able to reach an agreement on this, although some of them will still consult their parliaments. this is not a little, it's a lot. and it's a very important sign. i'll tell you right now, i'm confident that the uk, that lifeboat, will eventually join the ship again, i'm confident of that, because precisely with 26, the pressure to join is much greater.
one of the most urgent measures of european solidarity to stop speculation against the euro was taken at this summit, which was committed to the escape of a new treaty along an anti-democratic path which this parliament will not allow to pass. the idea of increasing the imf's funds is the most pathetic admission of the incapacity of mercozy europe. in my country, old people who were middle class are adding to the ranks of the poor's soup, thousands of children are showing up to school on empty stomachs, thousands of families are losing the homes in which they have invested their life savings and young people are leaving by the thousands to angola, brazil, australia, germany, for lack of jobs because companies are closing and firing more people every day. the rich, on the other hand, are getting richer and richer and have an easier life so that they can continue to put their money in tax havens like the city of london, with the support of our banks, backed up by the troika loan, which the portuguese taxpayers will pay back with a thumbs-up. with the recessive austerity obsession of the mercozy tandem, the european council is not only preventing europe from growth and employment and destroying social europe and the european union itself, it is devastating the europeanism of european citizens and sowing social chaos.
in writing. if there were any doubts, the reality there is demonstrating that this summit was another missed opportunity to find the answers, to make the decisions that are required in the face of the crisis of capitalism, which is deepening and generalizing. the decisions of the last european council show that, after some three years of crisis, summits are being held without a clear response and without the breakthroughs and policy changes needed to increase employment and reduce social inequalities and poverty. on the contrary, what they are proposing will make the whole situation worse because, by means of a genuine constitutional coup, they will try to impose more austerity on the workers and the people, weakening democracy, depriving member states with weaker economies of the sovereign principle in budgetary policy, while tax havens continue to flourish. the economic and financial groups are continuing to make gains with this proposal to strengthen the concentration and centralisation of economic and political power dominated by the european powers, under the leadership of germany. so the social struggles will continue against these unjust and unacceptable policies.
in writing. − i approve this report, agreeing that an additional €1.3 billion is needed and that this extra funding for the iter 2012-2013 programme is made available in a timely manner. i note that such allocation of funds will not call into question other research programmes. it will, however, be important for the european parliament to remain vigilant in order to check that the iter project does not receive funding that should be allocated to other programmes that have a more direct impact on the implementation of the 2020 strategy.
in writing. − iter is the largest european-led international cooperation project involving research centres and universities, and is of paramount importance for the development of scientific research. i welcome the agreement reached on the funding needs of the iter programme. however, i would stress the concerns expressed by the committee on industry, energy and research as to the origin of the funding. that is to say, to finance iter, but without prejudice to the funding allocated to the european framework programme for research and innovation. on the other hand, i would also draw your attention to the various mistakes made in the past in terms of management. careful and responsible management must be ensured in the future. i therefore call for the implementation of an efficient governance system, which ensures that all the requirements necessary for the implementation of the project are met.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the revision of the multiannual financial framework to meet the additional financial needs of the iter project, as it recognises the importance of this project for the european union and provides for additional commitment appropriations from the eu budget for the iter project in 2012-13.
in writing. the iter project is designed to study fusion energy. its global importance justifies the inclusion of the people's republic of china, japan, the republic of korea, the russian federation and the united states in addition to the european union, with the expectation that other partners will join as the project evolves. the three european institutions have recognised the need to increase the amount of the european contribution to the project for the 2012-2013 biennium and it is now up to parliament to give its consent to this increase. the search for more abundant, cheap and clean sources of energy must be a political priority for the union and the member states, and the union should not be excluded from projects in which it is involved which pursue that objective.
in writing. − this report, by reimar böge, focuses on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework (mff) in order to respond to the increased financial needs of the iter project. the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) project is the most ambitious initiative in the history of nuclear energy, both scientifically and financially, involving thousands of scientists worldwide. over the past few years the european union has made a decisive contribution to the advancement of nuclear research, in particular by supporting various programmes and in particular this project, which is more than 50% funded by the eu, with the remaining funding coming from the following countries: russia, the united states, china, japan, india and south korea. considering that the needs for financial reinforcement of this project were agreed at the trilogue meeting (ep, council and commission) held on 1 december 2011 and that the eu should remain at the forefront of research in this area, i am voting in favour of this proposal to amend annex i to the abovementioned interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. − this report amends the interinstitutional agreement of 16 may 2006, in particular the multiannual financial framework (mff), by adding an amount of eur 1.3 billion in commitments for the years 2012 and 2013 for the iter project. it follows that: eur 100 million is already included in the 2012 budget under the iter budget lines; eur 360 million in commitment appropriations in the 2013 budget process under the mff; and eur 840 million under heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs), divided into 650 million for the year 2012 and 190 million for 2013. the increase for heading 1a is accompanied by a reduction in the ceilings for headings 2 - conservation and management of natural resources (450 million for 2011) - and heading 5 - administration (243 million in 2011 and 147 million in 2012). despite the controversy surrounding this project, in general terms we consider it important that energy research can continue in order to overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available. such research should consider a multiplicity of options, with renewable sources given priority.
in writing. − this approval amended the interinstitutional agreement of 16 may 2006, in particular the multiannual financial framework (mff), by adding an amount of eur 1 300 million in commitments for the years 2012 and 2013 for the iter project. it follows that: eur 100 million is already included in the 2012 budget under the budget lines relating to iter; eur 360 million in commitment appropriations in the 2013 budgetary process, in accordance with the mff; eur 840 million for heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and jobs), divided into 650 million for the year 2012 and 190 million for 2013. the increase for heading 1a is accompanied by a reduction in the ceilings for headings 2, conservation and management of natural resources (450 million for 2011) and heading 5, administration (243 million in 2011 and 147 million in 2012). despite the controversy surrounding this project, in general terms we consider it important that energy research can continue in order to overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available. such research should consider a multiplicity of options, with renewable sources given priority.
in writing. − the importance of the iter project, which is intended to study fusion energy, justifies the need to increase the funds needed to maintain, develop and deliver the project. it is known that, given its importance, the people's republic of china, japan, the republic of korea, the russian federation and the united states are participating in it, in addition to the european union, although other countries are interested in being part of this project. the constant search for alternatives to the energies currently used leads us to seek more abundant, cheap and clean sources of energy, and the union should not therefore withdraw from the projects in which it is involved which pursue this objective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework in order to respond to the additional financial needs of the iter project. this project is intended to cover, in stages, the additional cost of eur 1 300 million of the iter project in 2012-13. the council, the european commission and the european parliament agreed the details of this operation in a joint meeting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the revision of the multiannual financial framework which will make it possible to continue the iter programme for the next two years in a way that does not come at the expense of the projects and programmes under way under the 7th framework programme for research. the relevance of projects aimed at the search for new, renewable, alternative, socially and environmentally sustainable energy sources, which accelerate the abandonment of nuclear fission, is recognised; secondly, it is of key importance to ensure that iter's supplementary funding needs do not render unfeasible or jeopardise the funding of research projects and programmes in this and other areas, in particular by ensuring that all provisions of the 2006 interinstitutional agreement (iia) continue to apply.
in writing. − having identified the need to amend the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management in order to meet the additional financial needs of the iter project (which lacks an additional 1 300 million), the three institutions have initiated a dialogue to find a solution. having reached an agreement on 1 december 2011, which deserves approval by the committee on budgets, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework was established by the interinstitutional agreement concluded between the european parliament, the council and the commission on 17 may 2006 with the aim of improving budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the budgetary framework is amended several times during the implementation period to meet the needs of the european union. i agree that the iter project has an additional value of eur 1,300 million in 2012-2013, and eur 100 million should already be included in the 2012 budget under the budget lines relating to iter. some eur 360 million will be made available in commitment appropriations in the 2013 budgetary procedure, taking into account the ceilings for commitment appropriations of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i support this report mainly because it suggests that the european solidarity fund should be mobilised more quickly to provide timely assistance to those affected by disasters. to this end, i believe that greater coordination between national and regional bodies and european bodies will be necessary in order to assess needs more rapidly.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 7/2011 seeks to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 38 million in commitment and payment appropriations to help alleviate the consequences of the earthquake in murcia, spain, and the floods in veneto, italy. the funds mobilised through the eusf are intended to contribute to the repair of infrastructure and cannot be used as a refinancing instrument or to compensate for private losses. this report approves the council position on draft amending budget no 7/2011 by formally inserting this budgetary adjustment in the 2011 budget. in view of the need for a rapid mobilisation of the eusf and the fact that, in the case of the floods in the veneto region, such mobilisation took place only 13 months after the torrential rains, this report calls on stakeholders in the member states, at local and regional level, and national authorities to improve needs assessment and coordination in relation to possible future eusf applications, with a view to accelerating the provision of the eusf. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amending budget in order to swiftly release financial assistance through the eusf to italy and spain, countries affected by natural disasters in 2010 and 2011, respectively. this project will encourage all stakeholders in the member states and national authorities to improve needs assessment and coordination in relation to possible future applications to the fund. with a view to accelerating, as far as possible, the mobilisation of the eusf, since, in the case of italy, the mobilisation of the fund will not be effective until 13 months after the floods in the veneto region.
in writing. - i think it is clear that this draft amending budget, which is intended to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of approximately eur 38 million in commitment and payment appropriations, will be adopted to help alleviate the consequences of the earthquake in murcia, spain, and the floods in the veneto region of italy. i would remind you once again of the need for this type of procedure to be expeditious, something i will not fail to do, especially in cases where the opposite is clearly the case. as the rapporteur has pointed out, it seems to me absolutely unjustifiable that the fund is being mobilised only now, for events which took place last october! the causes of these delays, which occur mainly at the initial stages of applications, need to be addressed, and i therefore call on the national, regional and local authorities in the member states to improve needs assessment and coordination in future applications, as the rapporteur has done.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 7/2011 - mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund - spain and italy, which will make it possible to support the recovery of damage caused by disasters in these countries. i do, however, think that the solidarity fund regulation should be revised to make it faster and more flexible.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is intended to help regions struck by natural disasters. both the earthquake in murcia and the floods in the venetto region justified a request by these two countries to mobilise the fund, in the amount of eur 38 million in commitment and payment appropriations, in order to mitigate the consequences of both disasters. i believe that the european union must continue to support these two countries, and i therefore vote in favour of this amending budget.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by sidonia elzbieta jedrzejewska, relates to draft amending budget no 7/2011 (presented by the commission pursuant to article 37 (1) of the financial regulation) on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for spain and italy. the purpose of this mobilisation is to contribute to the repair of infrastructure destroyed by natural disasters, namely the lorca earthquake that occurred on 11 may 2011 in the region of murcia, spain, and the floods in veneto, italy. the earthquake in spain, in addition to 9 dead and 130 injured, left ten thousand people homeless and caused damage estimated at more than 840 million euros. the floods in the veneto region caused seven deaths and hundreds of displaced persons, with direct losses estimated at eur 3 717 million. in this connection, and taking into account that this draft amending budget was approved by the conciliation committee on 19 november 2011 by reallocating the rural development programmes, i am voting in favour of this proposal to allocate eur 21 070 950 to spain (region of murcia) and eur 16 908 925 to italy (region of veneto).
in writing. − this mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund was made in accordance with the financial regulation, which provides that the commission may present draft amending budgets in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, allowing for such mobilisation up to a maximum amount of eur 1 billion. its purpose is to contribute to the repair of infrastructure. the direct losses in murcia, spain, were estimated by the commission, on the basis of calculations provided by the spanish authorities, at a total of eur 842,8 million. in the case of the veneto region in italy, direct losses were estimated at eur 3717 million. the total amount of aid proposed in draft amending budget no 7/2011 is eur 37 979 875, eur 21 070 950 for spain and eur 16 908 925 for italy, thus representing a small part of the estimated total losses. we voted in favour of this support. but we cannot fail to stress here the need to define once and for all a comprehensive and effective community framework for disaster prevention, as proposed in the report on this subject, of which i was rapporteur. as noted there, investment in prevention means considerable savings in the material and human losses resulting from disasters.
in writing. − this mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund was made in accordance with article 37 (1) of the financial regulation which provides that the commission may present draft amending budgets in the event of unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, allowing for such mobilisation up to a maximum amount of eur 1 billion. its purpose is to contribute to the repair of infrastructure and it cannot act as a refinancing instrument or compensate for private losses. the direct losses in murcia, spain, were estimated by the commission, on the basis of calculations provided by the spanish authorities, at a total of eur 842,8 million. in the case of the veneto region in italy, direct losses were estimated at eur 3717 million. the total amount of the aid proposed in draft amending budget no 7/2011 is eur 37 979 875. the commission proposes to finance the needs identified by reallocating the appropriations for payments and increasing the appropriations for commitments in the rural development programmes. we voted in favour of this support.
in writing. the european union solidarity fund is used to provide aid to regions struck by natural disasters. the recent earthquake in murcia and floods in the veneto region led to a request from these two member states to mobilise the fund, amounting to eur 38 million in commitment and payment appropriations, in order to mitigate the consequences of both disasters. i am therefore in favour of this amending budget, because i believe that such support should not be denied to these two member states in the face of the violence of the disasters that have occurred.
in writing. - i have approved the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the regions of murcia in spain and veneto in italy. the conditions of eligibility for assistance from the fund are specified in council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 establishing the eusf. one of the objectives is to contribute to the repair of infrastructure, but it cannot act as a refinancing instrument or compensate for private losses. this is the case for direct losses in murcia, spain, estimated by the commission, on the basis of calculations provided by the spanish authorities, at a total of eur 842.8 million, and for direct losses in the veneto region of italy, estimated at eur 3 717 million.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amending budget which will help to alleviate the consequences of the earthquake in the murcia region of spain and the floods in the veneto region of italy. i cannot, however, fail to reiterate that the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund must be speeded up in order to provide timely aid to the regions affected by disasters. if the eusf were provided with an own budgetary allocation, delays in mobilising the fund of more than one year could be avoided, as is the case with the floods in italy; extending the scope of the eu solidarity fund to situations beyond natural disasters could have mitigated the consequences of the toxic sludge disaster in hungary.
in writing. − as part of the implementation of the 2011 budget, the 7th draft amending budget was presented to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. the recent use of the fund is intended to help alleviate the consequences of the earthquake in murcia, spain, and the floods in the veneto region of italy. i voted in favour of this because i consider it a priority.
in writing. - draft amending budget no 7/2011 seeks to mobilise the european union's european solidarity fund to the amount of eur 38 million to deal with the effects of the earthquake in murcia, spain, and the floods in the veneto region of italy. the european parliament document, which i supported, stresses the need for these funds to be made available quickly and calls for the involvement of local, regional and national authorities in efforts to ensure that financial support is effectively and rapidly allocated.
in writing. - i approve this report because the applications comply with the rules laid down in the fund regulation. given the situation of the national economies of the euro area, which are going through a period of economic turbulence, i believe that the european union must show solidarity and make every effort to help minimise the dramatic consequences of natural disasters which have affected two member states. it also helps these two countries to focus their efforts on consolidating their public accounts.
in writing. − the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. the solidarity fund is mainly used in cases of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on the living conditions of citizens, the natural environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state or of a country applying for accession to the european union. in exceptional circumstances, the eusf may also be mobilised for disasters considered to be regional in nature, where a region is struck by a disaster causing damage affecting the majority of its population and having a serious and lasting impact on its living conditions and economic stability. spain and italy submitted applications to mobilise the fund. spain for damage caused by the earthquake in the region of murcia and italy for flooding in the veneto. both applications comply with the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, and i therefore voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of eur 21 070 950 for spain and eur 16 908 925 for italy.
in writing. - i welcome the acceptance of the commission's proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for italy and spain. the purpose of this fund is to contribute to the repair of infrastructure. financial assistance to these countries is therefore aimed at mitigating the consequences of natural disasters in the affected regions of their respective countries. spain was affected in the murcia region by an earthquake in 2011 and italy in the veneto region by floods in 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 7/2011 - mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund - spain and italy, which will make it possible to support the recovery of damage caused by disasters in these regions of spain and italy. i do, however, think that the solidarity fund regulation should be revised to make it faster and more flexible.
in writing. − the strong earthquake that struck spain on 11 may 2011 and the torrential rains that hit italy from 31 october to 2 november 2010 caused extensive material and human losses which are deeply regrettable, the former being considered an extraordinary regional disaster and the latter, more serious in its impact and dimensions, a large-scale natural disaster, in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 on the existence and the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. i agree with the commission's proposal to mobilise the fund and hope that the amounts transferred to the regions affected will make it possible to recover them and to reduce the losses incurred. this practical demonstration of solidarity is another positive sign of the goodness of many of the ideas of the european project.
in writing. the report under review, by reimer böge, concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in favour of spain and italy, in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the objective of this mobilisation is to contribute to the repair of infrastructure destroyed by natural disasters, namely the lorca earthquake, which occurred on 11 may 2011 in the region of murcia, spain, and the floods in the veneto region of italy. the earthquake in spain, in addition to 9 dead and 130 injured, left ten thousand people homeless and caused damage estimated at more than 840 million euros. the floods in the veneto region caused 7 deaths and hundreds of displaced persons, with direct losses estimated at eur 3 717 million. in this connection, and in view of the need to support the regions of spain and italy affected by the natural disasters mentioned above and the legal framework for the mobilisation of the eusf, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report provides for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for spain and italy. spain requested support from the fund for the damage caused by the earthquake in murcia in may 2011. the city of lorca was hit by two consecutive 5.2 magnitude earthquakes, killing 9 people and injuring about 300. another 10,000 people were evacuated and there was severe material damage. italy requested support from the fund following the torrential rains that occurred in october and november 2010 in the veneto region in the north-east of italy. the effects of heavy rainfall were compounded by the warm, mediterranean-type siroco wind, which melted snow on nearby mountains. the disaster caused significant damage to road networks, infrastructure, the agricultural sector, businesses and private homes. we naturally agree to the mobilisation of this fund, which is fully justified in view of the damage mentioned. we cannot fail to reiterate once again the importance of establishing an appropriate framework for disaster prevention and to deplore the delay of the european commission in implementing the recommendations of the report on this subject, which i was rapporteur for and which was adopted by the european parliament in september 2010.
in writing. - we approved the amending budget necessary for the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for spain and italy. spain has requested support from the solidarity fund for the damage caused by the earthquake in murcia on 11 may 2011. the city of lorca was hit by two consecutive 5.2 magnitude earthquakes, killing 9 people and injuring about 300 others. another 10,000 people were evacuated and some 30,000 people had to spend the first night on the streets, causing serious material damage. italy has applied for support from the solidarity fund following the heavy rains that occurred from 31 october to 2 november 2010 in the veneto region in north-eastern italy. the effects of heavy rainfall were compounded by the typical warm mediterranean sirocco wind, which melted snow on nearby mountains. the disaster caused significant damage to road networks and infrastructure, the agricultural sector, businesses and private homes. the commission proposed to mobilise the fund in the amount of eur 21 070 950 for spain and eur 16 908 925 for italy, for a total of eur 37 979 875. that was accepted and we approved it in the ep.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund is used to provide aid to regions struck by natural disasters. the recent earthquake in murcia and the floods in the veneto region fall within this type of aid, under the terms of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002 on the existence and the methods of mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. i am therefore in favour of the mobilization of the funds needed to deal with these serious incidents, and i hope that the funds made available will serve to mitigate the material and human damage caused by these natural disasters.
in writing. − i have approved the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for spain and italy to cover respectively the damage caused by the earthquake in murcia on 11 may 2011 and the damage caused by the torrential rains that occurred from 31 october to 2 november 2010 in the veneto region in north-east italy. in fact, the european commission services, having verified that all applications comply with the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, proposed to mobilise the solidarity fund in the amount of € 21 070 950 for spain and € 16 908 925 for italy, for a total amount of € 37 979 875.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european solidarity fund (esf) for these two regions of europe which have been hit by two natural disasters. i cannot, however, fail to stress the need, on the one hand, to provide the eusf with own resources to ensure that aid reaches the affected populations in time and not 13 months later, as is the case with the floods in the veneto region of italy, and, on the other hand, to extend the scope of the fund beyond natural disasters, so that situations such as those which occurred in the kolontár and devecser regions of hungary, in particular the case of toxic sludge, go unaddressed.
in writing. − the european union's european solidarity fund provided for in regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, set up to respond to natural disasters affecting member states, allows, in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006, the mobilisation of a maximum of eur 1 billion per year. since spain has asked for the fund to be mobilised in response to the earthquakes that struck the city of lorca and italy has asked for it to be mobilised in response to the torrential rains that hit the veneto region, and since all the conditions for its application have been met, i voted in favour of the decision to mobilise the fund, in the hope that this will help to meet the needs of the local populations as quickly as possible.
in writing. − in november 2011, the european commission presented a proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to respond to requests for assistance from spain and italy. i fully support this report because i believe that the european union solidarity fund should be made available to member states whenever natural disasters occur which result in high losses for the affected regions. i agree with the mobilisation of eur 21 million for spain to deal with the earthquake in the region of murcia, particularly in the city of lorca, and with the eur 17 million for italy following the floods in the veneto. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my full solidarity with the regions affected and to stress that the european union should work to support the people of lorca and veneto.
in writing. - i approve this report because the application fulfils the criteria for access to the european globalisation adjustment fund. in the long term, the measures provided for by this fund are intended to help displaced workers find and keep a new job, and it is clear that these workers need support in this respect. i note that today the fund also provides assistance to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, and this seems to be the case, as private investment in the construction sector has fallen sharply in recent months. as such, the eu must provide assistance to all those affected by the crisis and the economic and social disruptions that have resulted from it.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of significant changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 3 918 850 from the egf for italy to support workers made redundant by 323 firms in division 41 (building) in the trentino-alto adige/südtirol region.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy. the egf was established to provide additional support for workers affected by the consequences of significant structural changes in world trade patterns. the purpose of this mobilisation of the fund is therefore to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - given the various repercussions italy has been suffering from its fragile exposure to the financial crisis and structural changes in world trade patterns, i considered it important to support this report which will provide vital temporary and ad hoc assistance to unemployed workers. i also believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy, totalling eur 3 918 850, will be used for this purpose. this support for the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the global economic and financial crisis into the labour market in italy is essential to safeguard the 528 redundancies that occurred in 323 companies in division 41 (building). of the package of measures proposed by the commission, i would like to highlight two of the most important: individual counselling and guidance, to provide workers with individual support services in the process of reintegration, and individual vocational training, which aims to re-skill dismissed workers through the implementation of training and development sessions, thus facilitating job search techniques which are essential in an increasingly global world.
in writing. − this is the 23rd application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3.9 million from the egf for italy. i would point out that this application was submitted by italy on 7 february 2011 (with additional information being submitted by 6 july) for redundancies in 323 companies in division 41 (building). i therefore find that this application was examined within a reasonable time, given the degree of complexity of the examination and verification of its conformity with the egf rules of these applications. i have seen the same efficiency in previous decisionmaking procedures and, while i regret the events which led to this procedure, i commend the speed with which it was concluded. as a final comment, i would just like to see this efficiency and effectiveness in the union's action applied to other matters, particularly those which may call into question the future of the eu as we know it today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the mobilisation of eur 3 918 850 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy to support 643 workers made redundant in 323 companies in the trentino region. i consider this request to be relevant in that the closure of the companies in question was due to the impact of the current crisis in the italian construction sector.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund has been used extensively to mitigate the impact of globalisation and the consequences of the current financial crisis on the european economy by helping redundant workers and seeking to re-enter the labour market. the number of cases submitted to the european parliament for approval, their geographical disparity and the diversity of industries affected are proof enough of the worrying moment the european union is going through. the relocation of their industries to regions of the globe where labour costs are significantly cheaper has led to the closure of many production units and consequently to the unemployment of many thousands of workers who now find it difficult to return to work, such is the market retreat and the caution in hiring shown by the remaining employers. the same fate, which i cannot but regret, has befallen 528 construction workers from 323 companies in the trentino-alto adige/südtirol region of italy. i hope that the egf will help them to find work again and i hope that the european economy can react with energy and creativity to this difficult time.
in writing. - the present report by mrs barbara matera concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/002 it/trentino alto adige/südtirol construction of buildings, italy). on 31 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 7 february 2011. this is the 23rd application submitted under the eu budget for 2011, with a budget of eur 3 918 850, and aims to alleviate the social impact of the dismissal of 643 workers from 323 construction companies in the trentino region. as the egf, set up in 2006, aims to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision.
in writing. − this report responds to the 23rd application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund examined under the 2011 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 918 850 from the egf for italy. the result is 643 redundancies, 528 of which are eligible for support, in 323 building companies. the construction sector in italy has been severely affected by the crisis. according to the italian government, loans to the construction sector or to private individuals have been drastically reduced and demand for new housing has decreased due to a decline in consumer confidence and a lack of liquidity. the economic situation of both provinces considered here (alto trentino and adige/südtirol) deteriorated in 2009 and their economic growth was negative. italy expects the impact of the redundancies to be significant at local level. we supported the mobilisation of the egf to support workers made redundant. but at the same time we are reiterating here the criticism both of the unfair regulation of the fund and of the fact that nothing is being done to prevent its being used again and again. on the contrary, the policies put in place by the eu are new seeds of crisis that are foreshadowing new redundancies and new calls for mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. − this is the 23rd application to be considered by our working party in the committee on employment and social affairs under the 2011 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 918 850 from the egf for italy. the result is 643 redundancies, 528 of which are eligible for support, in 323 building companies. the application is based on the intervention criteria laid down in article 2 (b) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, which requires at least 500 redundancies to occur over a period of nine months in enterprises operating in the same nace revision 2 division in one or two contiguous nuts ii regions of a member state. italy claims that the construction sector has been severely affected by the crisis. loans to the construction sector or to individuals have been drastically reduced and demand for new housing has declined due to a decline in consumer confidence and a lack of liquidity. this is the trentino-alto adige/südtirol region. the economic situation of both provinces deteriorated in 2009 and their economic growth was negative. italy expects the impact of the redundancies to be significant at local level.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the number of companies relocating is increasing, taking advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, with harmful effects for countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to italy, which has submitted a request for assistance concerning 643 redundancies, of which 528 are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 323 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the nuts ii region of trentino-alto adige/südtirol (itd1 and itd2) in italy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of structural changes in world trade patterns. on 31 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 23rd application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of € 3,918,850 of the egf for italy, based on 643 redundancies, 528 of which are eligible for support, in 323 enterprises in the nace rev. 2 division 41 (building) in the nuts ii region of trentino-alto adige/südtirol (itd1 and itd2) during the reference period from 1 march 2010 to 1 december 2010. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support construction workers in the trentino region of italy, who have been faced with unemployment following a sharp drop in private investment in the real estate sector following the current social, economic and financial crisis. the mobilisation of the fund will ensure a set of programmes to support the retraining of more than 528 workers in 323 companies directly affected in this region.
in writing. − as part of the implementation of the 2011 budget, an application was submitted for the 23rd time for the european globalisation adjustment fund, which aims to support workers who, as a result of relocation, caused by the phenomenon of global competition from the companies in which they work, are in a highly fragile situation. in this case, in which italy requested assistance from the fund, a total of 643 redundancies were recorded by 323 firms in the trentino region (alto adige/südtirol) over a reference period of nine months. since all the conditions for the fund's operation, which allows the mobilisation of up to eur 500 million per year, have been met, i voted in favour, in the hope that this will alleviate the difficulties of those who have been deeply affected by the phenomenon of globalisation.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. italy submitted an application to mobilise the egf in favour of 528 workers made redundant in 342 enterprises in the building and construction subsector in the region of trentino-alto adige/südtirol. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 3 918 850.00 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, including through counselling, vocational training and retraining, coaching and skills assessment. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of italian companies, as it is a complementary support granted by the european union to mitigate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the introduction of minimum standards is a step in the direction of fundamental rights. it is important that suspects and accused persons are informed of their rights, because if they are not, we are calling into question one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law which states that suspects or accused persons should be presumed innocent until proven guilty in court. in order for this procedure to be uniform throughout the european union, there must therefore be common rules and enhanced cooperation between national and european institutions so that all citizens of the european union enjoy the same rights.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings, presented by the european commission in july 2010, aims to establish a set of common minimum standards on the right to information in criminal proceedings applicable throughout the european union. that is, it is intended to assert the right of suspects and accused persons to be informed of their rights. this information must be given in plain and accessible language, either orally or in writing, and in a language which they understand. the report amends the european commission's proposal to ensure that the directive covers all cases of restriction of a person's liberty, regardless of the member states' treatment of the proceedings by which the suspect was deprived of liberty. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to affirm the right of suspects and accused persons to be informed of their rights, as it is suggested that the information be provided in simple and accessible language for all to understand. the introduction of the proposed standards will ensure a better enforcement of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and will also contribute to overcoming the difficulties experienced in the recognition of criminal decisions caused by the lack of trust between judicial authorities.
in writing. − to address the impasse in the council since 2004, it was decided at the jha council of 30 november 2009 to initiate a phased approach in which procedural rights in criminal proceedings should be dealt with in stages, and a roadmap was adopted listing six measures as the basis for future action. the first measure, adopted last year, is the right to translation and interpretation. this initiative is the second of these measures and consists of the right to information in criminal proceedings, setting out minimum standards to be applied in relation to the information to be provided to suspects or accused persons (regardless of their legal status, citizenship or nationality) of having committed a criminal offence, regarding their rights and the charge against them. such information shall be provided in simple and accessible language and in a language which the individual concerned understands. knowing your rights is a first step towards ensuring that they are respected, as failure to do so not only undermines the fairness of criminal proceedings but is also likely to lead to miscarriages of justice. i therefore voted in favour of the compromise reached and hope that the member states will proceed swiftly with its implementation, particularly by drawing up the charter of rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out common eu-wide minimum rules on the right to information in criminal proceedings. this new directive ensures that anyone who is in a situation of detention or prosecution has access to a bill of rights which will inform them of their procedural rights in plain language and in a language they understand. these measures are crucial to building trust in the european area of justice, as more and more european citizens travel within the eu.
in writing. - we all know that criminal justice, in order to function effectively, must specifically provide for the rights of suspects and/or accused persons, in order to guarantee them an adequate possibility of defence through appropriate legal and judicial means. in this context, it is essential to guarantee suspects and/or accused persons the right to be informed, in a language they understand, of their rights and duties, the content of the charge against them, the right of access to the file and everything that is relevant to the file to which they are party. this is the only way to ensure an effective defence, a cornerstone of the rule of law and modern criminal procedure.
in writing. − the european union, as an area of free movement of persons and goods, must convey an image of security and a community of values such as freedom, democracy and respect for the rule of law, which is the hallmark of the eu. this report, by birgit sippel, focuses on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the right of european citizens to information when involved in criminal proceedings in a member state other than their own. often the accused (e.g. tourists) do not know the language or the criminal law of that country and they live very complicated and distressing situations. the directive gives them the right to be informed of their rights before the proceedings are opened, including an interpreter and a lawyer, and to have access to the grounds of the accusation. i therefore express my support for this proposal for a directive, which has received the unanimous support of all the political groups, and i am voting for the member states to transpose it into national legislation as soon as possible, as this is a measure which will bring greater security and confidence to all european citizens.
in writing. - this report contains aspects which we value, relating to the right to information in criminal proceedings, in particular in relation to the right to interpretation and translation, the right to be informed of the accusation and to access to the file. we would point out that these provisions are enshrined in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr) and should therefore be complied with and respected by the member states which are parties to the echr. as such, unfortunately, it is not the case, and this report is intended to be an attempt to strengthen mutual confidence. this is part of a wider process, aimed at so-called harmonisation, in this case at the judicial and criminal level. we know how often many of these repeated attempts at harmonization by the eu end up failing to protect and safeguard the rights and interests of the people, and even ignoring the good practices and examples of some of the member states. so we shall see how this process develops.
in writing. - this report contains points which we consider important concerning the right to information in criminal proceedings, in particular the right to interpretation and translation, the right to be informed of the charges and to access the file. these points, while positive, not only because they are enshrined in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr), but because they are basic rights of persons, should be fulfilled and respected by the member states, which are parties to the echr. as this is not the case, this attempt to strengthen mutual trust is being pursued, which is part of a wider process of so-called harmonization, in this case at the judicial and criminal level. these recurrent attempts at harmonisation by the eu are in most cases not made to defend the rights of peoples and often ignore good practice and examples from the member states. we'll see how this process plays out.
in writing. − the difficulty felt in implementing the principle of mutual recognition of criminal decisions is essentially due to the lack of common minimum standards in the field of criminal procedure in order to guarantee and ensure the effective enforcement of fundamental rights. i therefore welcome the establishment of a set of common minimum standards on the right to information in criminal proceedings applicable throughout the european union, in particular the right of suspects and accused persons to be informed of their procedural rights. as criminal procedural law is the seismograph of existing fundamental and constitutional rules, it is imperative that it be strengthened as a basic principle of the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that the introduction of common minimum standards in the field of criminal procedure will ensure a better enforcement of the fundamental rights of eu citizens and will at the same time help to overcome the difficulties experienced in implementing the principle of mutual recognition of criminal decisions due to a lack of trust between judicial authorities.
in writing. the high degree of economic integration in the european area has not been matched by the same degree of approximation in legal areas more closely linked to the idea of state sovereignty. the term is used to refer to criminal law (in the broad sense) or, more specifically, to criminal procedure law. however, it is certain that the area of freedom, by promoting the free movement of persons, has also broken with the isolationist paradigm of the various criminal legal systems. the reality of crime is, at least in some areas, european, not reflected in the curtains offered by geographical borders. in this context, it is appropriate to begin to take the first steps towards approximating the laws of the various member states: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings. in the light of the foregoing, the aim is to incorporate into the community acquis some of the fundamental elements which are at the core of the idea of due process: the right of the defendant to be informed of his rights, the right to be informed of the charges against him and the right of access to the file. i therefore voted in favour, stressing that the portuguese procedural model, which is based on the accusatory principle, already recognises these guarantees.
in writing. − under these new rules, suspects of a criminal offence will have to be informed of their rights in a language they understand. this will allow eu member states to ensure that all detainees or persons subject to a european arrest warrant are issued with a bill of rights covering their basic rights during criminal proceedings. i voted in favour of this initiative, which i consider to be fundamental to strengthening the area of security and justice in the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that mr pinxten's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience make him well placed to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of mr pinxten as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the belgian karel pinxten is objectively an excellent choice for the court of auditors (coa). he presents an impressive academic, political and technical curriculum vitae: a complementary profile that has brought more value to ct, which i am sure will continue to bring! and i say this with the ease with which i feel that karel pintxen is not even a member of my political group! however, although liberal, its objectives for the next term are commendable, in particular the focus on quality referred to in the document annexed to the report, as well as the promotion of good relations with the european parliament. for this reason, and as i have already said in other explanations of vote, i wish you a very successful term as a member of the committee on transport.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an independent audit institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name karel pinxten.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr pinxten as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted, which has informed my decision, indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr pinxten as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (see, in this respect, article 286 (1) tfeu). in that regard, the appropriate moment for the review of the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the moment of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, karel pinxten, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of karel pinxten because he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience qualify henrik otbo to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of mr henrik otbo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - in view of the proposed appointment of henrik otbo, the current auditor general of denmark since 1995, as a member of the court of auditors, i would like to make only two comments in this statement. first of all, i think that in view of his professional career, henrik otbo deserves this appointment. and secondly, i would like to highlight the direct and committed tone and the level of preparation for the post, as demonstrated in your answers to the questionnaire about your appointment and the functions you will perform. for this reason, and as i have already said in other explanations of vote, i wish you a very successful term as a member of the committee on transport.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an independent audit institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control, and most of them provided sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i have therefore voted in favour of the name of henrik otbo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr henrik otbo as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr henrik otbo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (cf. article 286 (1) tfeu). in that regard, the appropriate moment for the review of the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the moment of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, mr henrik otbo, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of mr henrik otbo because he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that mr juan-francisco corona ramon's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience make him well placed to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an independent audit institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name juan-francisco corona ramon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr juan-francisco corona ramón as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr juan-francisco corona ramón as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (cf. article 286 (1) tfeu). in that regard, the appropriate moment for the review of the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the moment of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, mr juan-francisco corona ramón, who was nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. because i was appointed by the spanish government after the start of the electoral process and, for the first time, there is no political consensus between the parties on the appointment of your representative to the european court of auditors, i have decided to vote against the nomination of juan-francisco corona ramón.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that ville itälä's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience qualify him to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of ville itälä as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - it was with great personal and political satisfaction that i voted in favour of the report on the appointment to the court of auditors (coa) of the finn ville ítala, a friend and fellow member of the european parliament, who preceded me as vice-president of the epp and was president of his party, kansallinen kokoomus, which led him to hold some of the highest state offices in his country. as with the other tasks he has carried out, i know that ville itala will carry out these tasks with great skill, commitment and acumen, and i wish him the best of luck.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control, and most of them provided sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name ville ithala.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of ville itälä as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of ville itälä as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (cf. article 286 (1) tfeu). in that regard, the appropriate moment for the review of the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the moment of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, ville itälä, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of ville itala as it fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that kevin cardiff's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience qualify him to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i have therefore voted in favour of the name kevin cardiff.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr kevin cardiff as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (cf. article 286 (1) tfeu). in that regard, the appropriate time for the review of the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the time of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, kevin cardiff, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of kevin cardiff because he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that mr russo's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience make him well placed to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of mr pietro russo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − the subject of this nomination is a distinguished man of law who stands out for his exceptional professional and academic career. with an outstanding curriculum vitae and a brilliant questionnaire, the italian pietro russo satisfies the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. mr pietro russo is well acquainted with the workings of the court of auditors and i know that he will continue to carry out his duties with renewed interest and dedication.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an independent audit institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name pietro russo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr pietro russo as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr pietro russo as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (cf. article 286 (1) tfeu). in that regard, the appropriate time for the review of the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the time of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, pietro russo, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. i am voting in favour of the appointment of pietro russo because he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that vítor caldeira's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience make him well-qualified to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of vítor caldeiras as president of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate our compatriot vítor manuel da silva caldeira on his new appointment as a member of the court of auditors (coa), which i naturally voted in favour of. vítor manuel da silva caldeira has already shown himself to be worthy of this recognition for his role as president of the court of auditors, where, under his responsibility, important projects were developed to improve the decision-making process of the court of auditors and its effectiveness. i commend the objectives you have set for your new mandate, in particular the promotion of effective public accountability and public audit in the eu, in collaboration with the european parliament and other eu institutions and at national level, in particular the high audit institutions. i would like to conclude by wishing you every success in your continuing duties.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an independent audit institution which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management of its operations. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name of vítor manuel da silva caldeira.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the opinion in favour of the reappointment of mr vitor manuel da silva caldeira as president of the european court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the reappointment of mr vitor manuel da silva caldeira as president of the european court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, and like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (cf. article 286 (1) tfeu). in this connection, the appropriate moment for checking the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the moment of their appointment, and in the light of the information gathered, vítor manuel da silva caldeira, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to monitor the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. the member states shall submit a proposal to the council, which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of justice. in this sense, i am very enthusiastic about supporting the re-nomination of vítor caldeira as president of the european court of auditors.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that hans gustav wessberg's experience as a member of the court of auditors and his professional experience qualify him to perform the duties for which he has been appointed.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's favourable position on the appointment of hans gustaf wessberg as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - i think that the appointment of the swede hans gustaf wessberg as a member of the court of auditors (coa) is a good decision. the cv you have submitted, your previous professional experience as a politician and manager, as well as the summary of your experience as a member of the cot and your objectives for a future mandate, will certainly ensure that you will perform your duties excellently, and i wish you the best of luck in this regard. that is why i voted in favour of the report on your appointment.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the court of auditors has thus been appointed by the council on the initiative of a number of eminent persons from various eu countries. all of them submitted their cvs, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control, and most of them provided sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors to perform their duties there in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name of hans gustaf wessberg.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the opinion on the renewal of the term of office of mr hans gustaf wessberg as president of the european court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the reappointment of hans gustaf wessberg as president of the european court of auditors.
in writing. - the court of auditors, which is designated by the treaty on european union as the eu institution (cf. article 13 (1) teu), is responsible for monitoring the use of european public funds. in this respect, like similar institutions at national level, it is necessary to ensure a high level of technical competence and to guarantee the independence of the members of the institution (see, in this respect, article 286 (1) tfeu). in this connection, the appropriate moment for checking the suitability of the members of the court of auditors to perform their duties is the moment of their appointment. it should be noted that, in the light of the information gathered, mr wessberg, nominated by the council, fulfils all the conditions necessary to be appointed as a member. i therefore voted in favour of the nomination, aware that the work of this institution is central to ensuring the quality of european political action.
in writing. - chapter 1, section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its aims are to control the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. member states shall submit a proposal to the council which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of auditors. i am voting in favour of the appointment of hans gustaf wessberg, as he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report. the main amendment proposed by the ep at first reading is the introduction of the instrument allowing for the issuing of a european protection order and a european criminal record order. i should like to stress the benefits of this amendment, as it will help to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union and will lead to the recognition by the council of important measures of protection in civil matters. this revision of the first reading agreement is essential to improve the legal framework of the european union and is a contribution to the strengthening of european democracy.
in writing. − all member states have measures to protect victims of crime. however, these measures cease when these people cross the country's borders. with the adoption of this report, which i supported, a victim of crime who is granted protection in an eu country will be able to continue to be protected if he decides to move to another member state. the new european protection order will be available, for example, to victims of domestic violence, harassment, kidnapping, persecution or attempted murder. in addition to the protection of the victim, a european protection order may also be applied for for the family members of victims, where they are covered by a protection measure at national level.
in writing. −i voted in favour of this directive, as it represents an important step towards building a just europe. the text adopted allows for the application for a european protection decision (epd) extending to other eu countries the protection granted to a national of a member state under national criminal law, with the issuing and sending of the decision to the other member state being the responsibility of the member state of origin. this directive applies only to protection measures adopted in criminal matters. however, taking into account the differences between the legal systems of the different member states, the country to which the citizen moves may apply other types of measures (criminal, administrative or civil) in order to promote the same level of protection as previously received. a european protection decision may also be requested to safeguard the family of the beneficiary of a ppd.
in writing. − based on a joint initiative of 12 member states, this european protection decision is undoubtedly an important instrument to facilitate and strengthen the protection afforded to victims or potential victims of crime in the eu. it is important to ensure that in the eusr, where eu citizens have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, the exercise of that right does not end up entailing a loss of their security. the initiative focuses on crimes likely to endanger the life, physical, psychological or sexual integrity of the victim, as well as his or her personal freedom, where the protection measures offered by one member state must be maintained and continued in any other member state to which the person moves. i am glad that a political agreement has been reached and that this second reading can be concluded. i also support the only proposed amendment which seeks to clarify its scope, as it is necessary to take into account that this directive focuses on protection measures adopted in criminal matters, as there are different legal traditions in the member states in this area, and to take into account the new context created by the presentation of the legislative package on the rights of victims in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that a victim of crime who enjoys a protection measure in an eu country should continue to be protected if he decides to move to another member state. these rules, which were approved by the european parliament, are of great importance, particularly in cases where protection is granted to victims of domestic violence, harassment, abduction, persecution or attempted murder.
in writing. - as i said when voting on this proposal at first reading, the legal protection of victims of crime is fundamental to the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice. that is why i am voting in favour of the agreement now before us, which seeks to improve the current legal framework in the following respects: (i) improvement of the conditions on which the revocation of the european protection decision is based; (ii) continuity of legal defence; (iii) reduction of the grounds for non-recognition or rejection of the european protection decision; (iv) the time limits for the decision to take effect; and (v) specification of the victim's travelling situation.
in writing. − this report is a first step towards ensuring that a crime victim who enjoys a protection measure in an eu country will continue to be protected if he or she moves to another member state. this european protection decision will cover, for example, victims of domestic violence, harassment, abduction, persecution or attempted murder. although much of the protection measures are aimed at women victims of domestic violence, the new rules will cover any victim (regardless of gender), taking into account the specificities of each type of crime committed. the directive shall apply to measures designed to protect a victim or a potential victim from the criminal acts of another person which may in any way endanger the life of that person or his physical, psychological or sexual integrity and to prevent further criminal acts or reduce the consequences of previous criminal acts. although it seems to us, in the context described, fair and necessary to ensure this principle, we stress that all this needs regulations (which do not yet exist) in order to be able to have practical effects.
in writing. − a first step has been taken so that a victim of crime who enjoys a protection measure in one eu country can continue to be protected if he or she decides to move to another member state. the new european protection decision will be available, for example, to victims of domestic violence, harassment, kidnapping, persecution or attempted murder. this european protection decision aims to ensure that protection afforded to a person in one member state is maintained and continued in any other member state to which that person moves or has moved. although much of the protection measures are aimed at women victims of domestic violence, the new rules will cover any victim (regardless of gender), taking into account the specificities of each type of crime committed. the directive shall apply to measures designed to protect a victim or a potential victim from the criminal acts of another person which may in any way endanger the life of that person or his physical, psychological or sexual integrity and to prevent further criminal acts or reduce the consequences of previous criminal acts. but all this still needs new regulations to be made practical.
in writing. − the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the european protection order is an important step towards a freer, fairer and safer europe, as enshrined in the treaty. from now on, a victim of crime who is granted protection in one member state will also be protected if he or she decides to reside or remain in another eu country. where there is a risk of a crime being committed against a person which could endanger his or her life, physical or psychological integrity and dignity, personal liberty or sexual integrity, the member state must adopt a protection measure, under criminal law, which ensures the protection of that person in the country concerned.
in writing. − this draft directive on the european protection order was the result of an initiative by 12 member states. this directive aims to specify the measures which allow the state to continue to protect a person against a criminal act by another person which may endanger his or her life, physical or psychological integrity, dignity, personal freedom or sexual integrity. the ultimate objective is to prevent new criminal acts, reduce the consequences of previous criminal acts and improve the protection of victims. the main change compared with the european parliament's position at first reading concerns the scope of the instrument which has been partially redefined, providing for a closer link between the possibility of issuing a european protection order and criminal conduct. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - for a long time, at least in countries with an inquisitorial tradition, criminal proceedings have focused on the relationship between the public authorities and the criminal, with the prevailing view that the legal problem raised concerned above all (or only) the violation of assets fundamental to the community, that is, that it was a public legal issue. this guidance, however, although it can offer the guiding matrix of criminal policy, obscures the role of the victim: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is in this context that the legislative process for the adoption of a european decision on the protection of victims of crime is being carried out, with the aim of providing the legal systems of the various states with instruments which will enable them, in addition to satisfying the public objectives of criminal proceedings, to protect victims from committing new criminal offences. i am therefore voting in favour of the european parliament's position, with the minor amendments that have been introduced in the meantime.
in writing. − a victim of crime who enjoys a protection measure in an eu country can continue to be protected if she decides to move to another member state, under new rules approved by the european parliament. protection will be available, for example, to victims of domestic violence, harassment, kidnapping, persecution or attempted murder. protection measures exist in all eu member states, but they cease to have effect when someone crosses the country's borders. this european protection order aims to ensure that the protection afforded to a person in one member state is maintained and continued in any other member state to which the person moves or has moved.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it essential that this single procedure should become a reality as soon as possible, since it strengthens the right of citizens to participate in the european common market and reinforces the principle of free movement of persons within the european union. with the increasing movement between member states of people working and living in a member state other than their country of origin, there is an increasing need for a de-bureaucratization of procedures in order to make unhindered use of a freedom acquired in the treaties of the european union, making it easier for citizens to enjoy their rights fully.
in writing. − the european union (eu) must ensure equal treatment for third-country nationals legally resident in the territory of the member states. its integration policy should aim to ensure rights and obligations comparable to those of citizens of the european union. as regards legal migration, the eu should develop migration policies that fully respect the competences of the member states, with the aim of helping them to meet current and future labour needs, contributing to the sustainable development of all countries. the aim is to establish a single residence and work permit procedure for legal immigrants and to give them a common set of rights throughout the eu. the aim is to simplify procedures so that national authorities can issue a single residence and work permit to legal migrants and grant them a set of rights equivalent to workers in the member states in which they reside, for example in terms of working conditions, including pay and dismissal, freedom of association and trade union membership, recognition of diplomas, social security, access to public services, etc. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i hereby express my appreciation for the report on the procedure for granting a single authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state. a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state is also proposed.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur, ms véronique mathieu, on her excellent work, which has enabled agreement to be reached at second reading on this important dossier, which represents a significant step towards a european policy on economic migration and is also the first report on legal migration to be adopted under codecision. the adoption of this single application procedure leading to a combined residence and work permit should help to simplify and harmonise the rules currently in place in the member states. it will help to improve the speed (the decision should be taken within 4 months from the date on which the application was made) and the efficiency of the current procedures, which will bring clear benefits for applicants who intend to immigrate to the territory of the member states, but also for employers themselves. it reflects the need to make the current immigration policy more flexible so as to contribute to the development and economic performance of the union, while at the same time allowing for greater control over the legality of the residence and employment of these migrants. they are also guaranteed rights and obligations (access to education and training, social benefits, working conditions) similar to those of eu citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that third-country workers legally resident in an eu country should enjoy the same rights as national workers as regards working conditions, social security and access to public services. the new directive will simplify the procedures for national authorities to issue a single residence permit for work to legal immigrants and will help to combat any attempt at social dumping in the labour markets of the different member states.
in writing. - after many difficulties, today we have approved the council's position on the creation of a single application procedure for work and residence permits and the definition of a common set of rights for all third country nationals legally residing and working in the eu. this implies common rules for all member states, which aims to put an end to the current differences between the various member states' regimes and to make the process of legalising workers faster, more uniform and more transparent throughout the union. if, on the one hand, legal labour migration, especially skilled labour, helps to combat illegal work and can help the competitiveness of the economy and help to overcome existing shortcomings, on the other hand we must not forget that in a period of crisis and economic vulnerability, when unemployment is increasing, labour migration policy must be flexible, but it must also be sustainable and reasonable.
in writing. − this recommendation for second reading, drawn up by veronique mathieu, is aimed at adopting the european parliament and council directive on the single application procedure for residence and work permits and the recognition of a set of rights for third-country nationals legally resident in a member state. the ageing of the european population, with the exception of eastern europe, has led to labour shortages in some sectors, especially in the primary sector, which have been minimised by immigration from east and north africa. in some member states, their productivity represents 2% of gdp. it is therefore the most elementary justice to make their lives easier by means of a single application for residence and work and to grant them rights equivalent to those of national workers as regards working conditions, social security and access to public services. i welcome the adoption of this directive, which i voted in favour of, because it brings greater equality of treatment to all eu workers, thus recognising the contribution they make to the economic growth of the member states in which they work.
in writing. - the council's proposal was approved for third-country nationals wishing to be admitted to the territory of a member state to reside and work there, as well as for residents who have already obtained the right to work there, with a set of rights. in each member state a competent authority is designated to receive applications and issue the single permit, thus contributing to the establishment of minimum standards in the different member states, simplifying procedures and allowing easier checks on the legality of your residence and employment.
in writing. − the present case is based on a recommendation for a second reading of the case concerning a single application procedure for the grant of a single authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state. when voting on the report a7-0265/2010 on the same subject, i said that one of the best ways to combat irregular immigration and illegal work is to develop balanced legal migration channels, which respond to the needs of our labour markets as well as to the social requirements of good integration into the host society. i am convinced of this and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on a single application procedure for the granting of a single authorisation for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state is part of the community's concern to ensure an area of free movement of persons, i.e. to consolidate a genuine single area. the proposal presented is the result of a meeting of the various community institutions (see recitals to the motion for a resolution by the european parliament), and i therefore voted in favour of adopting the council's position at first reading.
in writing. − the proposal for a directive on the single residence and work permit was launched in 2007 by the european commission and reached the ep in march 2011, after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the aim of this proposal, at second reading, is to facilitate and simplify the safeguarding of the rights of migrant workers. thus, third-country workers legally present in the territory of a member state should enjoy rights similar to those of national workers, in particular as regards social security, access to public services, health and education and the same working conditions. i am voting in favour of this proposal, since workers from third countries are contributing in the same way to the economy of eu countries. they should therefore have the same rights and guarantees as european citizens. the eu must avoid discrimination against immigrants as much as possible, as it adopts programmes and measures that boost the migration of people from third countries to the european area.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is intended to transpose several recommendations into a single legislative act. this is an important simplification initiative for the european union, which has contributed to a more harmonized regulation of fisheries in the mediterranean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this directive, as i consider that a second reading is necessary, given the council's position at first reading, of the report on certain provisions applicable to fisheries in the gfcm agreement area and on amendments to the regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of resources in the mediterranean sea.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the agreement area of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean because it includes the measures necessary to enable the transposition into a single legislative act of several recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean which are already in force.
in writing. the commission proposes to extend the scope of the regulation to all commercial fishing and aquaculture activities, but not to scientific research. regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 already in force respects the measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea and should be amended accordingly. as the commission has stated, the measures in question are already in force and binding on the european union and the member states, and their transposition is important because it makes them applicable to natural and legal persons, ensuring their legal certainty.
in writing. - the potential of mare nostrum, as the mediterranean was known in roman times, is well known: a trade and tourist route and a basin rich in fisheries resources that have fed peoples in europe, africa and asia. the recommendation under consideration is to adopt a european parliament and council directive on certain rules applicable to fishing in the area covered by the agreement of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), and also to amend council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on the implementation of measures to encourage sustainable exploitation of marine resources in the mediterranean sea. as co-legislators, we have a great responsibility in this matter, because we are faced with extremely fragile ecosystems less than 5% of their original area remains intact and contains 32 endemic species of animals at risk of extinction and we cannot adopt measures that further aggravate this situation. i welcome the adoption of this recommendation, which is aimed at seeking, on the basis of scientific studies, to strengthen fish species in order not to aggravate the environmental situation of one of the most important areas of the marine world and to ensure fisheries resources for future generations.
in writing. − this regulation contains the recommendations of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean on conservation, management, exploitation, monitoring, marketing and control measures for fisheries and aquaculture, and aims to cover all commercial fishing and aquaculture. regulation (ec) no 1967/2006, which is already in force, respects the measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea and should be amended accordingly.
in writing. - the present proposal for a regulation is simply an attempt to implement some of the recommendations adopted by the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) and already operational in the countries that are part of it. the aim was to create a single community legislative act to which future recommendations could be added by introducing further amendments. this is an important step towards simplifying procedures for the sound management of the mediterranean sea, the black sea and the adjacent waters. it therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. - fisheries is considered to be one of the most sensitive areas of regulation. this is because at the same time there are difficult questions of both food and environmental nature and because, finally, given the extreme mobility of fish stocks, abusive behaviour by any individual in a given area can damage the fisheries resources of other states. this justifies a comprehensive regulatory agreement which has already been introduced and, in particular, empowering the commission to adopt delegated acts to introduce into european law future amendments to the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) agreement and to adopt implementing acts in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council. the commission also proposes to introduce technical rules on the harvesting of fishery resources. following the vote in favour by the committee on fisheries, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this proposal for a recommendation aims to transpose into eu law the decisions taken under the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean agreement and thus to amend council regulation (ec) no 1967/2006. the registered conservation, management, exploitation, monitoring, marketing and enforcement measures in the area of fisheries and aquaculture are already in force and are binding on the eu and its member states. however, transposition is necessary to make them applicable to natural or legal persons. this proposal also provides for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts. the adoption of this regulation for the mediterranean area is important, as it ensures the legal certainty of the same, and it applies to all fishing vessels and aquaculture activities.
in writing. - i support this report, considering it essential to simplify business bureaucracy, especially for small, medium and micro enterprises. with these requirements for financial reporting and the reduction of administrative burdens, we are objectively helping competitiveness and improving the organization of the companies themselves. the internal market can only grow by gradually simplifying procedures and helping in particular small and micro-enterprises, which in many member states employ the majority of people. i would also stress that by providing their accounts with the most simplified procedures, a decision by the european union will be made easier if they need help in situations of financial difficulty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the second reading of the report in question, because of the council's position at first reading, with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, as regards micro-entities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i consider that it supports a more balanced revision of directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, in particular as regards micro-entities. the aim here is to prevent compliance with the directive from becoming particularly burdensome for micro-entities, without thereby prejudicing compliance with directive 83/349/eec.
in writing. - after several months of deadlock, we voted today, at second reading, on the proposal on accounting obligations for micro-entities. i repeat what i said in the first reading vote in march 2010: companies that are totally different cannot be treated equally. small and large companies cannot be treated equally. this proposal is aimed at defending small and mediumsized enterprises by proposing simpler and less costly measures which will naturally lead to the possibility of more jobs and more growth. these are key measures to combat the crisis and to support smes. finally, i would like to pay a special tribute to klaus lehne, as shadow rapporteur for the econ committee, where i debated the reasonableness of accounting measures for smes.
in writing. - this recommendation for second reading, by klaus-heiner lehne, is aimed at adopting the european parliament and council directive amending directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, as regards micro-entities, i.e. a subgroup of micro-enterprises, the majority of whose business activity is at local level. this is a definition not included in commission recommendation 2003/361/ec, which defines micro, medium and small enterprises, but which is required for accounting operational reasons. like other companies, micro-entities are obliged to publish their accounts annually, which represents a significant burden in view of their turnover. however, member states may exempt micro-entities from this publication, subject to certain conditions. the objective of this directive is therefore to facilitate the entrepreneurial activity of micro-entities by reducing the administrative burden. given the importance of these companies to local economies and their contribution to national gdp, i welcome the proposals to change the amounts up to which exemptions can be granted (balance sheet: from eur 250 000 to eur 350 000; turnover: from eur 500 000 to eur 700 000) and i vote in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − the preparation and publication of annual accounts can be a heavy burden for certain micro-entities. this report recognises this and therefore advocates an exemption of micro entities from the general publication requirements. it is intended that member states should be allowed to exempt micro-entities from the general publication requirements, provided that balance sheet information is duly submitted for deposit in accordance with national law to at least one designated competent authority and that the information is transmitted to the commercial register. in this context, member states may exempt from some of the obligations laid down in this directive undertakings which, at the balance sheet date, do not exceed the limits of two of the following three criteria: balance sheet total, eur 350 thousand; net turnover, eur 700 thousand; average number of employees during the year, 10. while recognising the importance of relieving micro and small enterprises of some of the constraints they face, particularly at this time of deep recession and crisis (and there are many of these constraints and many more), this proposal, which in some respects departs from the original proposal of the european commission, gives rise to some reservations.
in writing. − this report on the annual accounts as regards micro-entities seeks to allow member states to exempt micro-entities from the general publication requirements, provided that balance sheet information is duly submitted (for filing purposes) in accordance with national legislation to at least one designated competent authority and that the information is transmitted to the trade register. member states may, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3, exempt from some of the obligations laid down in this directive undertakings which, at the balance sheet date, do not exceed the limits of two of the following three criteria for micro-entities (balance sheet total: eur 350 000).
in writing. − the possibility for member states to grant certain schemes to some micro-entities is a very important issue and simplifies and improves the existing regulatory framework in order to limit the reporting obligations for eu micro-entities arising from accounting requirements. in this crisis scenario, it is important to create more agile mechanisms that reduce administrative costs. i therefore support this second reading.
in writing. − this report on the european parliament and council directive amending directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies as regards micro-entities aims to relieve and, in certain cases, exempt small enterprises from unnecessary and often incomprehensible tax and administrative obligations which are detrimental to the proper functioning of these entities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the community legislator, in dealing with company law, must take account of the extreme heterogeneity of the world of commercial companies. if we take the portuguese situation as a reference, we soon find that the same accountability requirements are not (as a rule) imposed on a limited company (gmbh in germany, sarl in france) or a public limited company. in fact, each of the company types is designed to meet different economic needs, and it is therefore justified that the company regime is not identical. the introduction of a special scheme for the publication of annual accounts by micro-entities, which is currently in the process of being legislated, is therefore to be commended. in this context, i voted in favour of the minor amendments tabled by the european parliament at second reading to the proposal put forward by the council.
in writing. − in february 2009, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, in particular as regards micro-entities, with the aim of simplifying the business environment and, in particular, the financial reporting requirements for micro-entities, in order to enhance their competitiveness and realise their growth potential. i agree with this report because i believe that the directive helps to reduce the administrative burden, to ensure a higher level of information to the companies concerned and to align the requirements of micro-entities with the real needs of those who use and draw up the accounts. i would like to stress the initiative to draw up a report analysing the situation of micro-entities, taking into account the number of enterprises covered by the size criteria. i also take the new exemption values for some of the obligations laid down in this directive as positive, since micro-entities cannot exceed the limit of two of the three criteria listed.
in writing. − i welcome this report, as it very timely aims to increase the maximum rate of european union co-financing for member states' programmes, thus reducing the percentage of national funds needed for the financial years 2011 and 2012. i stress the importance of this measure, because at a time when most member states are experiencing financial turbulence and when banks are unable to help investors, community funds can be a lever for growth, allowing money to be injected into national economies in order to carry out value-added projects that contribute to job creation and the revival of national economies facing great difficulties.
in writing. − as a result of the current economic, financial and social crisis affecting europe, some member states are facing budgetary constraints which could lead to non-compliance with commitments made under co-financed community programmes, risking the loss of community support under the eafrd. this report approves the increase in the cofinancing rates of the rural development funds for portugal, greece, ireland, romania and latvia, with the european union's contribution being able to cover 95% of the total costs of projects in this field. these measures will be in force until the end of 2013. the aim is to help these countries' economic recovery by allowing them to launch programmes which had not been implemented until now because of a lack of national funding. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the economic and financial constraints facing some member states of the union raise a number of questions as regards the commitments made in the context of the co-financing of community programmes under the structural and cohesion funds, the eafrd and the european fisheries fund. in the specific case of the eafrd, the risk of losing community support is increased when there is no clear evidence of effective national participation. in this context, the commission has proposed a temporary increase (2011/2012) of this co-financing for portugal, ireland, greece, latvia and romania (currently), which is supported by parliament, whose rapporteur has only introduced 6 amendments to make the procedures faster. as i said earlier, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the enormous fiscal consolidation effort and the liquidity constraints facing several eu countries are putting at risk the implementation of a significant number of state and community investments of major economic and social importance. the difficulty of accessing community funds due to lack of liquidity would make economic recovery in these regions even more difficult. i therefore voted in favour of the report because i believe that, in the present circumstances, increased community co-financing will facilitate the implementation of the agreed public investment programmes.
in writing. − at a time when positive signals from the european institutions are needed to stem the financial crisis, it is important to approve the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 1698/2006 to provide additional financial resources to eu member states facing serious financial difficulties. this amendment allows the co-financing rates for eu funds for portugal, greece, ireland, romania and latvia to be increased, and this contribution can cover 95% of the total costs of projects in the field of rural economy, which means that community funds are not lost due to the unavailability of own financing.
in writing. − this report deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 as regards certain rules relating to financial management for certain member states whose financial stability is seriously threatened, such as portugal, greece and ireland. the budgetary constraints faced by these countries may prevent them from investing the amounts allocated to them under the co-financed community programmes (structural and cohesion funds, eafrd and european fisheries fund) because they do not have the amount corresponding to the national component. this would force the member states concerned to repay these amounts to the eu, further aggravating their weak economy. the proposal aims to temporarily increase the maximum eu co-financing rate for member states' programmes supported under the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm). i welcome this proposal, which i voted in favour of, and i welcome the measures adopted, since they discriminate positively against the member states most affected by the economic and financial crisis and which are making great social sacrifices in order to rebuild their economies.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation recognises the negative effects of the serious crisis affecting some member states, such as portugal, on the use of funds from co-financed community programmes (such as the structural and cohesion funds and the eafrd). the restrictions on public investment imposed under the pretext of the irrational stability pact had the same effect before. we have long advocated an increase in community co-financing rates for these member states, which are having difficulty using community funds at a time when they are most needed because of the amounts of co-financing required. the commission is now proposing, with regrettable delay, an increase in community participation. for the convergence and outermost regions in particular, the community co-financing will increase to 95%, while for the other regions it will be 85%, until the end of 2013. but this commission proposal does not increase the budget available to each of the countries in difficulty, as was required, so the practical result, due to the reduction in the national effort, will be a reduction in the overall amount of investment planned. the commission must therefore consider an effective increase in the community funds available to these countries, in addition to the abolition of the unreasonable criteria of the stability pact, thus freeing up the necessary public investment.
in writing. - it is important that this proposal for a regulation, which recognises the negative effects of the serious crisis affecting some member states, such as portugal, on the use of funds from co-financed community programmes (such as the structural and cohesion funds and the eafrd), should finally be adopted. the restrictions on public investment imposed under the pretext of the irrational stability pact had the same effect before. we have long advocated an increase in community co-financing rates for member states which have difficulties in using community funds at a time when they are needed the most because of the amounts of co-financing required. this means an increase in the community co-financing to 95%, in particular for the convergence objective and the outermost regions, while for the remaining regions it will be 85% by the end of 2013. but this commission proposal does not increase the budget available to each of the countries in difficulty, as was required, so the practical result, due to the reduction in the national effort, will be a reduction in the overall amount of investment planned. the commission must therefore consider an effective increase in the community funds available to these countries, in addition to the abolition of the unreasonable criteria of the stability pact, thus freeing up the necessary public investment.
in writing. − the adoption of this report will have the consequence of temporarily increasing the maximum rate of union co-financing for member state programmes supported under the emff and the balance of payments support facility for non-euro area member states. since, as a result of the financial and budgetary crisis, some member states are facing budgetary constraints which could prevent them from meeting their commitments under co-financed community programmes, risking the loss of community support under the eafrd, this proposal will allow (for those member states requesting such an increase) to reduce the amount of their national funds needed in the financial years 2011 and 2012. it will therefore make the funds planned available to the rural economy and contribute to a general economic recovery in those member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which proposes to temporarily increase the maximum rate of union co-financing for member states' programmes supported under the emff (council regulation (eu) no 407/2010, currently greece, ireland and portugal) and the balance of payments support mechanism for member states outside the euro area (council regulation (ec) no 332/2002, currently latvia and romania). portugal will thus be able, in the context of the current budgetary constraints, to honour its commitments under co-financed community programmes (structural and cohesion funds, eafrd and european fisheries fund). however, it should be noted that this early availability of community funding does not exclude a high risk of the inability to receive/reduction of applications for new projects before the end of the financial period in 2013, leading to a slowdown in investment in rural economies.
in writing. − the current crisis facing the union has made it possible to improve the community's mechanisms for preventing systemic risks and reacting to situations of economic and financial fragility. on the one hand, this has allowed the attention of community policy-makers to be focused on the need to adopt structural instruments which, in the future, will allow a more rapid response to the various problems that may arise; on the other hand, it led to the adoption of measures which, in the short term, could mitigate the effects of the economic and financial crisis. the proposal to increase the rate of community cofinancing in the context of the structural and cohesion funds, the eafrd and the european fisheries fund for the benefit of countries covered by the emff (european financial stability mechanism) or, outside the euro area, beneficiaries of balance of payments support, is part of this framework. this is a proposal which i voted in favour of, in the hope that it will speed up the process of economic recovery in portugal.
in writing. − due to the global economic and financial crisis, some eu member states are facing serious budgetary constraints which could make it impossible to meet the commitments made under the european fund for rural development (efrd). this is the case for portugal, greece, ireland, romania and latvia. in order to contribute to an efficient economic recovery in these member states, the european commission took the initiative of increasing the co-financing rate by 10 percentage points to cover 95% of the total costs of projects under the structural funds. i agree with this initiative because i believe that it will not involve changes in the funding of cohesion policy, but rather an advance on the funds allocated to the member states. the countries concerned will not therefore have to allocate a large amount of money to the co-financing of community projects, and it will be easier to boost initiatives already approved at the time of application and to take advantage of new actions.
in writing. - i welcome this report because it provides a clear analysis of the tariff barriers and policies which currently exist in trade between the member states of the european union. on the other hand, i think it is important to try to remove existing barriers to european businessmen who have difficulty exporting to eu trading partners who impose serious barriers to european imports. it is necessary to respect that tariff setting also depends in part on national and regional options, for example at the level of gmos, but in general we can send the message that enhanced cooperation between the world's largest trading partners will allow the economy of all the players to be revived. finally, it is important to pay particular attention to the needs of developing countries.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their views on the future of the european union. in the 15 pages of your report, which i recommend to anyone interested in international trade issues (in particular with regard to its legislative framework in recent years), i would just like to stress the need to eliminate non-tariff barriers to trade and investment as one of the main objectives of the union's trade policy under strategy 2020. of the many corrective and preventive measures proposed, i would like to highlight only one: the commission's study of an early warning mechanism to detect non-tariff barriers and the strengthening of its current analytical instruments for a better qualitative assessment of them. from what i have said above, it is easy to see that i voted in favour of the report and i congratulate robert sturdy on the excellent work he has done.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i think it is a good report, promoting, among other things, the fight against unfair competition, the removal of unjustified non-tariff barriers, the strengthening of respect for intellectual property rights, the protection of eu consumers and, in particular, the protection of the environment inside and outside the eu.
in writing. - free trade and the abandonment of protectionism are defining elements of the european project as it exists. the european construction is based on freedom of movement within its borders, but also on freedom of trade and investment with third countries. this is the right model, and i'm not asking for your review. but as the french president warned in marseille last week, we cannot impose quality standards on our producers and manufacturers which are not then met by the products we import. we cannot be the most open space and not see that our openness to imports and foreign investment is reciprocally accepted in other important markets where europeans want to enter. finally, free trade agreements, while important and desirable, must be reciprocal, otherwise we condemn the european economy to a slow death throes.
in writing. − this report focuses on the barriers to trade and investment in the european union, which hamper competitiveness, economic growth and, consequently, wealth and job creation. as rapporteur robert sturdy points out, open and fair trade is the best way to ensure and maintain a level playing field for european companies competing globally. the issue of barriers to trade and investment has been addressed at several levels: the transatlantic council decided to strengthen cooperation between the united states of america and the eu (principles on trade in information and communication technology services ict); the commission has also made progress in the automotive sector and a high-level conference is expected. all this shows that the removal of trade barriers is a priority for the eu. while i agree with the openness advocated in the report - which is why i voted in favour of it - i also believe that a mechanism should be set up within the world trade organisation (wto) to speed up the removal of non-tariff barriers, that is to say, of trade-restrictive regulatory measures which restrict imports, in a peaceful but effective manner.
in writing. - the rapporteur is a staunch advocate of free trade and, to that extent, this view is what ultimately prevails in the report. a view that is in line with the dominant positions in parliament, uniting the right with the social democrats. we consider the contents of the report unacceptable. we are faced with yet another unbridled apology for the liberalization and deregulation of international trade. recognising that among the so-called barriers to trade there are practices, regulations and procedures which are justified by elementary reasons of public interest, they want to restrict these barriers as much as possible by advocating a restrictive conception of the public interest. they want to force several countries to lift their non-tariff barriers in the name of free movement of eu products against the favouritism towards state-owned enterprises. the liberalization of world trade has disastrous consequences for many sectors of economic activity. it destroys productive capacity and jobs, affects the ability to create and distribute wealth, increases external dependence, and leads to chronic and growing imbalances in trade balances, in short, economic and social backwardness. the defence of each country's right to produce in a sustainable way is a requirement for the future. in the name of a new economic, social, energy and environmental rationality, which the neoliberal model not only does not guarantee, but makes impossible.
in writing. - this is a report which is fundamentally aimed at defending free trade, which is in line with the dominant positions in parliament, uniting the right and the social democrats, but which we reject. we are faced with yet another unbridled apology for the liberalization and deregulation of international trade without taking into account the different degrees of development of countries, or even the right of each country to produce in a sustainable way. while recognising that among the so-called barriers to trade there are practices, regulations and procedures which are justified by elementary reasons of public interest, they want to restrict these barriers as much as possible by advocating a restrictive conception of the public interest. they want to force several countries to lift their non-tariff barriers in the name of free movement of eu products against the favouritism towards state-owned enterprises. the liberalization of world trade has disastrous consequences for many sectors of economic activity. as we know, it destroys productive capacity and jobs, affects the ability to create and distribute wealth, increases external dependence, and leads to chronic and growing trade imbalances. in short, it is an economic and social backwardness.
in writing. − as non-tariff barriers, which are a growing obstacle to free access to partner countries' markets, include a range of trade restrictive measures other than import duties which restrict imports, it is important that the commission proactively act to remove or at least reduce the restrictive impact of such non-tariff barriers so that the export capacity of european companies is not affected and thus a level playing field is ensured and maintained for european companies competing in a global market.
in writing. − the most sensible measure to strike the right balance between the trading partners is the existence of an open market, but balanced by certain exceptions that protect certain sensitive sectors of each partner's economy to allow it to gradually adjust and prepare for global competition before it is actually opened up. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this legislation is in line with this objective.
in writing. the european union is committed to a twofold economic order based on trade liberalization: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. whatever the basic position adopted in this respect, it is certain that, within certain limits, a system of free intermediation in trade results in what has been termed a positive sum game: in other words, both states, or groups of states, who sacrifice a more protectionist orientation, end up profiting more together than individually. in this context, the reduction of non-tariff barriers, i.e. of sub-reptile ways of introducing restrictions on international trade, such as export subsidies, anti-dumping duties, exchange rate manipulations, etc., i.e. of barriers which do not follow the formal route of introducing a customs tariff, is justified. in the light of the above, political action to abolish these instruments gradually is justified, without prejudice to the fact that they are reserved mainly for the most fragile sectors of the economy, as exceptional schemes. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the multilateral trading system is seen as the most appropriate framework for regulating and promoting open and fair trade and ensuring the development of global trade rules that are fair and equitable between countries. however, european companies are having serious difficulties in establishing themselves in some markets, notably china, brazil and argentina, where restrictive measures are in place on trade in european products. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that non-tariff barriers to european countries must be removed or reduced, international regulatory cooperation must be improved, foreign direct investment in the european economy in key markets must be stimulated and a stable and attractive environment must be created for european investors abroad. finally, i believe that the european commission should make every effort to draw up a complete and up-to-date inventory of the main barriers facing european businesses.
mr president, the financial crisis is having a dangerous impact on our national security and defence capacities and therefore restricting csdp operationality. we are living in a time when the chinese, among others, come on buying sprees to reap, at cheap prices, the benefit of sensitive defence and security technology developed by europeans. as my colleague krzysztof lisek’s very good report highlights, pooling and sharing resources and capacities in security and defence is central for the eu and european states to escape irrelevance in global governance, even within nato, as secretary gates complained. let us be clear: without assuming a european preference against similar measures by others, we will never build the european industrial base that is needed to ensure our strategic autonomy, as well as preparedness to enter into synergies with others, be it in nato, the un or other frameworks spending shrinking defence and security budgets in a smarter way – as baroness ashton said – requires getting rid of the corruption which is pervasive in the offset system, and the opacity dominating security and defence procurement. it also requires two member states, britain and france, to be persuaded to cease wasting money on their nuclear arsenals, which do not serve to counter any of the threats europe and the world are now facing: just the opposite. finally, i would like to say to baroness ashton that libya was a glaring missed opportunity for a csdp mission and therefore for eu, and not franco-british, leadership. your job is indeed to persuade member states not to miss these opportunities and to assume these responsibilities. we in this parliament will definitely support you in these endeavours.
mr president, the debate we are having here today is disturbing but also enlightening. the same people who have been advocating a parade of attacks on the workers and peoples of europe in the name of deficits and debts, attacks ranging from wage cuts to so-called adjustments aimed at ending public health, education and social security systems as we know them, these same people, as i said, are now stating bluntly that the european union's military capabilities must be developed, ensuring that budgetary restrictions do not affect military spending. they are in fact advocating a new impetus in this spending, as was already the case at the european council a year ago. a new impetus to cooperation with nato, the european defence agency, military research and the war industry, in line with the treaty of lisbon. these are new alarm bells that are ringing and that show the aggressive and dangerous nature of a capitalist system in agonizing crisis and that also show that the fight against the anti-social policies of the european union and the fight for peace must go hand in hand.
madam president, i welcome the high representative’s initiative of launching an interinstitutional debate to ensure that an effective and comprehensive strategy for promoting human rights and democracy is at the core of the eu’s external policy. however, i agree with my colleague, sarah ludford, who says that the eu is not going to be seen as credible as a human rights promoter if it continues ducking the serious responsibilities of member states that collaborated in human rights violations under the guise of the war on terror. i believe that a country-by-country strategy on human rights that takes into account specificities and priorities along with dramatic campaigns, such as women’s rights, and related governance and rule-of-law questions, such as the fight against corruption, should enable eu foreign policy to improve coherence and achieve concrete results. benchmarking can be a useful tool for us to reward a genuine willingness to protect human rights and dramatic practices and, through our trade and development policies, to put those who continue to resort to repressive policies at a disadvantage. take ethiopia, the second most populous country in africa, which is massively financed by eu aid and is an outrageous example of our inconsistency, where we turn our blind eye to the blatant human rights’ violations. i believe parliament and civil society must participate in the elaboration of such country-based strategies and in the monitoring of their implementation. high representative, in your visits, you should make a point of always meeting human rights’ defenders, particularly of women’s rights, and ensure that human rights are a mandatory topic for eu delegations and all in the european external action service. i also welcome your idea of appointing special representatives on human rights, international justice and international humanitarian law.
the european parliament has already made its position very clear in our first report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. and it is with great satisfaction that we have seen incorporated in subsequent communications from the commission and the council many of the principles and proposals which we have been advocating in this house. i am grateful for the excellent and continuous cooperation and coordination we have had with vice-president catherine ashton and commissioner štefan füle and his offices. first of all, the upgrade we've achieved in our relationship with the neighboring peoples. by giving priority to relations with the general public and civil society organisations in particular, we will be making our neighbourhood policy more objective and effective, which is intended to be based exclusively on the universal values we defend and share. i would stress, however, that the european union does not intend to impose a pre-defined model or formula for political reforms in third countries. but when it comes to our taxpayers' money, we should give more to those who are doing the most to bring us closer to the values we believe in. this principle means that the faster a country progresses in its internal reforms, the more support it will receive from the european union. the principle of more for more is therefore correct, fair and consistent. this means, of course, that we also anticipate the possibility of cases or countries where we will have less for less. the neighbourhood policy is now based on the defence of the pursuit of common values and the commitment to democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. but this quest implies a greater responsibility. our partners are called upon to take more responsibility in the process, and so we advocate the principles of greater differentiation, greater conditionality and more for more. by taking a bottom-up approach to our partners and tailor-made policies, we are making more effective the institutional development and capacity, the institutional building that we so much want to defend and which is at the heart of the rule of law and the democratic process, and which we want to see implemented as quickly as possible in the societies, economies and communities around us. the idea is to give a voice to citizens as well as to all civil society movements that identify with our values, by supporting organized movements that strive to achieve positive and democratic change in their countries, improving the rights of women and children, building and deepening the principles of freedom, whether of expression, association, religious belief, press, choice, etc., with fair elections, fighting corruption, a rule of law, greater social justice, respect for minorities, environmental protection and resource efficiency. the serious economic and social problems facing our neighbours also need to be addressed immediately. it is clear that without our practical help the democratic processes under way could fail. these are the ideas we have always advocated for the future european neighbourhood policy. these are the proposals contained in the report which we are putting to the vote. now is the time to act. we will continue to be vigilant and to exercise the new powers of monitoring and control now vested in the european parliament. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleague, co-rapporteur and friend marek siwiec, to whom i would like to express a very special word of appreciation for his outstanding work on the eastern side of the neighbourhood policy. i also thank the shadow and opinion rapporteurs and all of you for the many suggestions in the amendments you have tabled, which i believe have enriched our work. and a final word to the commission secretariat and the political advisers for the excellent support work i have received.
i support the new approach that commissioner füle has been seeking to take to the european neighbourhood policy and i congratulate my colleagues david and siwiec on the excellent recommendations in their report, reinforcing the focus of the european neighbourhood policy on relations with peoples rather than governments. this is the only way for the european union to be consistent and effective in promoting human rights, democracy and, in essence, in ensuring development and stability in its neighbourhood, both east and south. this clearly implies conditionality, as our rapporteurs have stressed. intelligent, intelligently applied conditionality that pressures governments and induces the behaviors we want but above all empowers people rather than sacrificing them further. this is a conditionality which this parliament will not fail to assess and which will obviously have to take into account behaviour in the field of human rights, democracy, the rule of law, good governance and the fight against corruption. and no neighbourhood policy represents a partnership with society if it does not put women's empowerment at the heart of that policy: that's true in the east as well as the south. without them the european union cannot fail to give them visibility for the role they have played in the arab revolutions.
madam president, we cannot talk about a european neighbourhood policy without including the outermost regions as active borders of europe in different parts of the world. as external borders, the outermost regions transmit our values of democracy, peace and respect for human rights and fundamental rights to third countries in those regions. regions such as the french outermost regions are in dire need of greater integration into their geographical areas. far from the union's internal market, this integration is fundamental to its development and represents a huge potential for deepening the neighbourhood policy with neighbouring third countries. the neighbourhood policy needs a new impetus, one that also takes advantage of the privileged historical and cultural links which the outermost regions of the azores, madeira and the canary islands have with north and south america. a more active role for the european union can and should be played by these regions in the framework of a new european neighbourhood policy.
rapporteur. − madam president, with this report we prove our willingness to show our neighbours that we will no longer acquiesce on the defence of democracy, human rights and especially social justice. we will no longer focus on short-term stability at the expense of the best interests of the citizens, of their dignity, of constantly defending them and of their individual and collective freedom, with a particular focus on women’s and children’s rights. we need to promote immediate economic assistance in order to foster the kind of economic changes which are preconditions for long-term stabilisation and prosperity. it is a fact that, by helping to solve the economic problems of our neighbour-partners in the south, we will also be solving part of our migration problems. allow me a word on ukraine. we bear part of the responsibility for the developments which, regrettably, are taking place there. in order not to annoy its big neighbour, the eu has never shown any sign that ukraine also has a european perspective, and i condemn this lack of political courage. ukraine is a sovereign state, and it is up to its people to decide their future, which i will welcome if it is a european one. dear colleagues, in conclusion – and thanking you for this inspiring debate – i would just like to leave you with one final idea. last year showed us that we all support the same ideas for a new neighbourhood policy in our union. this proves that we have the will, which is strong; we finally have the means and, listening to commissioners füle’s announcements, we also have the financial resources. now it is time to act, and the faster the better. for the effective needs and aspirations of the peoples of our neighbouring countries, tomorrow is always too late.
in writing. the polish presidency of the council of the eu was one of the most critical periods for the eu, with the words implosion, disintegration and a two-speed europe being a recurring theme in the media. the multiple challenges that have emerged have demonstrated the commitment and dynamism of the polish presidency to deepen european integration in the face of the resurgence of nationalisms in some member states. in the field of transport, the new guidelines for the transeuropean networks, the connecting europe facility and the linking of these instruments with third countries, more specifically with the eastern partners, were objectives which the presidency fulfilled. the first document was adopted on tourism, in which parliament stressed the importance of this sector for the european economy. the negotiations on the next financial framework and cohesion policy after 2013 were also discussed by this presidency. however, it was in the economic field, in the creation of a genuine european economic government and in financial supervision, that poland stood out in the debate and negotiations with the member states, in particular in the adoption of the six-pack. despite efforts, many of the objectives have not been achieved. however, the polish government's efforts are worth noting.
madam president, the intention behind the so-called economic governance package is to insist on deepening capitalist integration with the results that are already well known: the increase in unemployment, the increase in poverty and social inequalities. and what is happening, even in this process, which today here demonstrates it well, is that what is intended is, in fact, to increase this exploitation of workers at the cost of reducing real wages and other remuneration for work, to facilitate the accumulation of capital, to aggravate social inequalities. but it also intends to undermine the interests of the countries with the weakest economies by imposing permanent sanctions and fines on them, which could worsen the whole situation. it is an unacceptable interference and it is also a disregard for the most basic principles of democracy, as this debate has shown before the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the need to support the candidate countries and potential candidates for accession to the european union, in particular iceland, montenegro and turkish cyprus, so that they are in line with european policies. i also support the commission's proposal to make this instrument compatible with other support instruments such as crossborder cooperation. i believe that this instrument is essential to prepare in good time for the possible integration of these candidate or potential candidate countries, particularly as in recent cases there has been a clear need for reforms, particularly in the area of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to the council and parliament to amend council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 of 17 july 2006 establishing an instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) with a view to transferring iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries (annex ii) to the list of candidate countries (annex i). these amendments are intended to clarify the rules on participation in the award of grant contracts financed under the cross-border cooperation component and to ensure coherence with other external aid instruments, in particular the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. i welcome this proposal which recognises the new status of the two countries and i hope that both can continue on their path towards european integration.
in writing. − this report is based on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 establishing the instrument for pre-accession assistance to guide the practices of countries wishing to accede to the european union. with a view to this progressive alignment, the regulation provides for a distinction between candidate and potential candidate countries, i.e. those which are close to accession and those which still have a longer or shorter road to travel. iceland and montenegro applied for accession to the european union and the council, on 17 june and 17 december 2010 respectively, and following the opinion of the commission, decided that accession negotiations should be opened as they fulfilled the conditions set out at the copenhagen european council in 1993, thus qualifying as candidate countries. i therefore support the amendment to council regulation no 1085/2006 which aims to clarify the rules for participation in financing contracts under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (cross-border cooperation) and to ensure its link with the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i consider the usefulness of the ipa to be important. the aim of this instrument is to provide assistance to the applicant countries as they need it, on the basis of annual strategy reports issued by the commission on the countries concerned. it makes aid more effective and coherent, and places it within a single framework for strengthening institutional capacity, crossborder cooperation and economic and social development. pre-accession aid shall support the stabilisation process of candidate and potential candidate countries, while respecting their specificities.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation, which aims to amend the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa), aims to transfer iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries to the list of candidate countries. this change follows the decisions of the european council. the procedure in the european parliament was consensual and the commission proposal was adopted at first reading. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the commission proposes to amend the rules on the application of the principle of proportionality by the member states in order to ensure that the conditions for the application of the principle of proportionality are fulfilled. the aim of the diploma is to support the candidate countries or the pre-candidate countries in their efforts to join the eu and to help them to approximate the acquis communautaire. the amendment of article 19 is intended to resolve a complaint which has arisen in the meantime without any substantial change. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposes to the council and parliament three amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 establishing an instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) aimed at: the transfer of iceland and montenegro from the list of potential candidate countries (annex ii) to the list of candidate countries (annex i), following the decisions of the european council; a revision of article 19 with regard to two aspects such as the assessment of consistency with regulation no 2112/2005 (the so-called decoupling regulation) and consistency with other external aid instruments; and in article 25 (1), an amendment to the second subparagraph. the european parliament has taken the position of supporting these proposals, which i also support.
in writing. - i approve this report. a new paradigm of support for european producers and processors is needed, promoting a better use of what is produced in the european union, which will be able to generate direct revenues for producers and processors. for example, about 80% of the orange juice consumed in the european union comes from the united states and brazil. this is not justified, because we have excellent citrus fruit, we are able to produce locally and on a european scale high quality fruit juices, and it is necessary to boost production here too.
in writing. − this report is the second amendment to council directive 2001/112/ec of 20 december 2001 on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. new rules are thus established on the composition, use of reserve names, manufacturing specifications and labelling of fruit juices in the european union. these new rules reflect new international standards on authorised ingredients, such as those concerning the addition of sugar, which is no longer authorised in fruit juices. the new rules, which apply to all products marketed in the eu, even those imported from third countries, stipulate that only those products which have not been added with other juices may be sold as orange juice. in the case of juices produced from two or more fruit species, the name should be supplemented by an indication of the fruit used, in descending order of the volume of the fruit juices incorporated. these measures should be reinforced by specific information campaigns enabling consumers to know exactly what product they are buying. i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. - this draft legislative resolution, which seeks to amend directive 2001/112/ec, is essentially a technical proposal to clarify and simplify the european legislative framework for the production and labelling of fruit juices intended for human consumption in the european union. i agree with the compromise reached by the trialogue and reflected in the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, and i therefore voted in favour of this report, which has now been adopted at first reading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption because it includes rules on the composition and labelling of these products which will ensure clearer information for consumers, particularly as regards the indication of added sugar, which is particularly important for people with diabetes.
in writing. - fruit juices account for 10% of all non-alcoholic beverages consumed in europe. of these, only a small percentage is produced locally, with 82% imported from brazil. it is important to boost european fruit juice production in order to support our processing industries and our producers. in addition, it is essential to ensure that consumers are provided with the information they need to know exactly what kind of juices they are consuming, so that they can make an informed and conscious choice.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to amend for the second time council directive 2001/112/ec of 20 december 2001 on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. fruit juices produced in the european union are high quality products, manufactured according to sustainability standards, and contribute to a healthy and balanced diet. it is therefore essential to ensure the quality of all products marketed within the union. the report advocates the proximity product, which should not be transported over long distances because of the resulting co2 emission, which is manufactured under social and labour conditions compatible with eu legislation and based on the principles of food safety established in the eu, without wanting to call into question any kind of import policy. i think that consumer information is essential, because there is a danger of misleading the consumer, particularly with regard to the withdrawal of the non-added sugar statement without first providing the consumer with an effective clarification. i agree with the rapporteur that industry needs to be given time to communicate and inform the consumer.
in writing. - we supported this report, which aims to clarify concepts relating to nomenclature, flavouring and to improve consumer information on the subject. it is therefore proposed to prohibit the use of potentially misleading or misleading names, such as natural fruit juice, which mislead the consumer into thinking that the juice is obtained directly from fruit, when in some cases the juices are obtained from concentrates. this is because there are difficulties at present in distinguishing, for example, between juices and nectars, and because the presence or absence of sugars is important for the consumer to make choices according to his specific needs and desires. for these reasons, information campaigns on different categories of juices are welcome. there are, however, concerns, also expressed in the report, notably about the delegation of powers to the european commission, particularly with regard to the review of authorised ingredients. this was the area which caused the greatest difficulty during the negotiations with the council and which should not be changed by means of delegated acts for that reason too. the proposal for a directive provides for an 18-month period for adaptation to the new legislation, which allows industry to make the necessary changes.
in writing. the report aims to clarify concepts relating to nomenclature, flavouring and to improve consumer information on this subject in the area of fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. it is therefore proposed to prohibit the use of potentially misleading or misleading names, such as natural fruit juice, which mislead the consumer into thinking that the juice is obtained directly from fruit, when in some cases the juices are obtained from concentrates. there are difficulties when it comes to distinguishing, for example, juices from nectars and the presence or absence of sugars. to enable consumers to make choices according to their specific needs and desires, information campaigns on different categories of juices are welcome. there are, however, concerns, also expressed in the report, notably about the delegation of powers to the european commission, particularly with regard to the review of authorised ingredients. this was the area which caused the greatest difficulty during the negotiations with the council and which, for that reason too, should not be changed by means of delegated acts. the proposal for a directive provides for an 18-month period for adaptation to the new legislation, which allows industry to make the necessary changes, and we therefore supported the report.
in writing. the ep's approval of new rules to ensure clearer information for consumers will lead to a better distinction between fruit juices and nectars for consumers. since the fruit juices and other similar products sector is a significant industry in the european union, the revised rules on the composition and labelling of these products, the inadmissibility of certain practices and the indication of added sugar will ensure a high level of quality for all products marketed in the union. with the corresponding benefit for the constant improvement of the internal market.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to amend for the second time council directive 2001/112/ec of 20 december 2001 on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption, laying down rules on the composition, use of reserved names, manufacturing specifications and labelling of these products, in order to ensure their free movement within the european union. the european parliament has advocated that the criteria set out in this directive should apply under the same conditions to products manufactured in the union and to imported products. i have voted in favour of this report because i support this same position.
in writing. - in the fruit juice market, about 82% of the products consumed in the european union are produced outside the community. the main reason is that fruit juice production in the european union is based on surplus production and not on fruit which is deliberately grown for juice production. the european production cycle thus ends up optimising available resources and avoiding the need for long transport journeys to put goods into circulation in the common market. these points, at a time when the european union is renewing its commitment to ecological sustainability, should be taken into account in the regulation of the fruit juice market. it is the fundamental concerns of the report before the european parliament which, within the limits set, seem to me to be legitimate and have led to the vote in favour.
in writing. the fruit juice market accounts for 10% of non-alcoholic beverage consumption and it is clear that further measures are needed to protect consumers' interests and to provide them with the fullest information available on the market. since a large proportion of the fruit used in fruit juices is produced outside the european union, it is imperative that the same standards be applied to all producers, avoiding situations of fraud and unfair competition. i therefore vote in favour of this report, as i believe that it is necessary to standardize the rules on the ingredients used and their composition, to classify products by category and to define common practices for manufacturing companies. i also think it is important to adopt clearer criteria to distinguish between the different types of beverages available on the market, in particular between juices and nectars, so that consumers can choose those that are most appropriate for their health and well-being.
in writing. - i approve this report. if we take into account the environmental impact of phosphate in european waters, it is urgent to drastically reduce the introduction of phosphate products and derivatives into european waters, which thus reduce their quality year by year. there are alternatives to the use of derivatives of this component, and i would stress the need for greater environmental awareness on the part of detergent manufacturers, as well as on the part of european citizens themselves, in the choice of products they use.
in writing. − phosphates alter the natural cycle of water systems such as rivers, lakes and streams. in europe, the baltic sea and the danube basin are the most affected by the increased use of phosphorus, particularly from detergents for washing machines and dishwashers (mll). with an increasing incidence of this chemical element in the composition of waters, rapidly developing plants (such as algae) tend to proliferate in an infesting way on other living organisms, depriving them of oxygen, and can produce toxins, killing fish and plants and degrading the quality of water - eutrophication. unlike laundry detergents, there are as yet no phosphate-free formulations as an alternative to mll detergents. by setting a date for the commission to set a limit on the phosphorus content of milk products, we can see more investment in innovation to speed up the transition to formulae without this compound. at the same time, the commission will allow sufficient time in advance to reduce the negative impact on manufacturers and will also harmonise, by means of a regulation, the different standards at national level. i therefore support the report by mr bill newton dunn on the use of phosphates and other phosphorates in detergents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household laundry detergents, as it includes rules which will allow phosphates to be removed not only from laundry detergents but also from dishwashing detergents, which will be very positive for the protection of water quality and the environment in the eu.
in writing. the european union is known for the high level of detail in its legislation applicable to the most varied areas of production. this regulation is often intended to protect consumers and sometimes the environment and natural resources, as is the case with this regulation on the use of phosphates in household detergents. while i agree that such protection is desirable, i would say again that imposing restrictions on the manufacturers of household detergents as regards the use of phosphates will only make sense if those same rules prevent the entry into the eu of imported detergents which violate those same rules. we cannot demand more and more from our producers and industries without imposing equivalent rules on imported products.
in writing. the current commission proposal for a regulation aims to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in detergents for household washing machines. phosphates reach water systems, rivers, streams and lakes, causing eutrophication, that is, an overgrowth of algae that deprives other living organisms of oxygen and can produce toxins, killing fish, plants and other species and degrading the quality of the water itself. alternatives to the use of phosphates in detergents exist, especially in the case of household laundry detergents, where there is a trend towards phosphateless formulations. however, there are still technologies that use phosphate (which contains phosphorus but in much smaller quantities), preventing a total ban on phosphorus at this time. it is nevertheless important to set deadlines and limits for the maximum amounts of phosphorus which will make it possible to combat the eutrophication of water systems, rivers, streams and lakes. the commission has opted for a regulation rather than a directive in order to better harmonise the different standards at national level. the harmonisation of diverging national rules on the content of phosphates and other phosphate compounds improves the free movement of detergents for laundry and household use in the internal market.
in writing. − this report focuses on the problem of excess phosphate and phosphate compounds from household detergents, which, when they end up in waterways, rivers and seas, cause the phenomenon of eutrophication, i.e. the excessive growth of algae and other rapidly developing plants, which causes a sharp decrease in dissolved oxygen in the water, causing the death of aquatic life in these areas and significantly affecting biodiversity, with serious consequences for water quality and public health. the report sets maximum levels for the presence of phosphorus in household detergents for laundry and dishwashers at 0,5 g per dose in both cases with effect from 1 january 2013 and 2015 respectively. however, industrial and institutional detergents are excluded from this regulation. given the possibility of minimising the impact of this element on the environment and the fact that detergents for domestic use with a very low phosphorus concentration and with an effective action already exist, this regulation makes a positive contribution to a better environment, better living conditions and public health.
in writing. - the problem of excess phosphate and phosphorus compounds from household detergents which, when they end up in watercourses, rivers and seas, cause the phenomenon of eutrophication, i.e. the excessive growth of algae and other rapidly developing plants, which causes a sharp decrease in dissolved oxygen in the water, causing the death of aquatic life in these areas, significantly affecting biodiversity, with serious consequences for water quality and public health. this report sets maximum levels for the presence of phosphorus in household laundry detergents and dishwasher detergents at 0,5 g per dose in both cases with effect from 1 january 2013 and 2015 respectively. however, industrial and institutional detergents are excluded from this regulation. given the possibility of minimising the impact of this element on the environment and the fact that detergents for domestic use with a very low phosphorus concentration and with an effective action already exist, this regulation makes a positive contribution to a better environment, better living conditions and public health.
in writing. − this proposal, approved by the european parliament, aims to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in detergents for washing clothes and dishes throughout the eu. this will make detergents for washing and dishes more environmentally friendly, which is extremely important to ensure the protection of the environment, in particular the aquatic environment, and the proper functioning of the internal market for these products.
in writing. − this report approves new rules to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in detergents for washing clothes and dishes across the eu. the aim is to ensure the protection of the environment, in particular the aquatic environment, and the proper functioning of the internal market for these products. in southern europe, water is harder and detergents generally contain more phosphates. according to the commission, portugal is one of the countries that would benefit most from the switch to phosphate-free detergents. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − phosphates affect watercourses and systems, promoting the rapid development of algae and other plants, leading to their eutrophication and consequently the death of several native species due to reduced oxygen availability and/or the possible production of toxins. detergents contribute significantly to the introduction of phosphate into the aquatic environment and alternatives to the use of phosphates in detergents are currently available. this report greatly limits the amount of phosphates in detergents for laundry and household use. a study is also requested to investigate the feasibility and potential impact of a ban on phosphates in industrial and institutional detergents. these measures give greater protection to rivers, lakes, marine habitats and the whole ecosystem and all wildlife, and i voted in favour of them.
in writing. the rapporteur's main concern is to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market. some european water resources are now overrun by algae and other organisms which eventually saturate the means available for the survival of fish and plants sharing the same resources. the commission proposal for a regulation therefore aims to reduce the permissible percentage of phosphates in this type of detergent. this is a proposal which, on the surface, seems to deserve applause, in that it seems to offer, at a small cost, great environmental benefits. i therefore voted in favour, but i must stress two points: firstly, the need for a study to assess the economic impact of this measure and the time needed for industry to adapt to the new rules, and secondly, the need to adopt a technical solution that can meet the needs of consumers. in this context, and to use a point made by the rapporteur, i would point out that in southern europe, because the waters are harder, the use of phosphates is more necessary for efficient washing.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in detergents for household washing machines and to better harmonise the different standards at national level. phosphates reach water systems and to clean europe's water it is desirable to reduce the amount of phosphorus reaching the waters on our continent. the largest use of phosphates in the eu is in fertilisers, but there is also another source of phosphates at the household level: dishwasher detergents, used in detergents to combat water hardness and allow effective cleaning, also performing other functions that enhance cleaning capacity. however, water hardness varies from region to region, which translates into different phosphate formulas between member states. it is important to lay down rules on the reduction of phosphate but also to allow for the impact in different member states and the various conditions to be taken into account in order to achieve the intended purposes.
in writing. - i approve this report because the agreement which was intended to be extended in practice for only two more months has allowed european fleets access to moroccan waters and it is important, including for portuguese fishermen, to keep this agreement in force. of course, all agreements can be improved and this is no exception. in this respect, it will be necessary in the future to adapt the agreement in line with the analysis made by the legal services of the european parliament and the broad scope of its benefits to all the populations concerned.
in writing. - by refusing to give its consent to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco, the european parliament has done a disservice to our bilateral relations and, in particular, to the interests of the iberian fisheries sector. the european parliament has behaved irresponsibly towards a friendly country in which his majesty king mohamed vi has been promoting a profound and peaceful democratic transition, largely supported by referendum. it is incomprehensible that he did so in the week in which the house adopted a report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, of which i was the rapporteur, and which seeks to deepen our relations with neighbouring countries! it is even more shocking that portuguese members of parliament have, by their vote, favoured the interests of third parties to the detriment of the national economy. i voted in favour, so i deeply and sincerely regret the outcome!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the current fisheries partnership agreement is coming to an end and a new, more favourable agreement on environmental sustainability is already in preparation. i do not think it is appropriate, therefore, to precipitate a crisis in bilateral relations between these regions and to call into question the rights of european fishermen.
in writing. - as before, some members wanted to use the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco. the irresponsibility of this action, which unfortunately has been covered up by the house, cannot but be reflected in the lives of the shipowners and fishermen, some of whom are portuguese, who fish in moroccan waters and who should be prevented from continuing to do so. at a time of job losses, we must condemn this resolution, which does nothing but create unnecessary tensions between neighbours and partners who have everything to gain by remaining in the same situation. i cannot help but regret this unfortunate incident and wish that the european union and the kingdom of morocco can regain the lost trust and can begin to find new ways of establishing a reliable, fruitful and productive relationship.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr carl haglund, concerns the draft council decision extending the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco on fishing conditions in moroccan waters and the financial compensation for the latter. the rapporteur considers that this draft decision represents a bad deal for the eu and recommends its rejection for the following reasons: the financial counterparts to the previous agreement did not boost the renewal of the moroccan fishing fleet, allowed the capture of species considered to be overexploited, did not fully respect international law and did not benefit all local populations, in particular the sarawi people. the commission is also proposing to extend the period of validity of the fishing authorisations for the following species: the species concerned is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the european union, the european union is the union, the european union is the union, the european union is the union, the union is the union, the union is the union.
in writing. - we welcome the rejection of the extension of this agreement. as we have always said, the agreement which the commission now proposed to extend is unacceptable. as it is an agreement between the eu and morocco, it is unacceptable that it provides for the exploitation of a natural resource in western sahara, a territory illegally occupied by morocco since 1975. morocco's sovereignty over the territory of western sahara has never been recognized by any country, until today. with this agreement - contrary both to international law and to the various un resolutions on this issue - the eu implicitly recognised it. this was therefore the only solution compatible with international law. the commission must take it very seriously. your attitude was deplorable throughout the entire process. it should be noted that parliament will be able to exercise its right of consent only two months before the expiry of the deadline for the end of this extension (which in practice began in february). the difficult situation is now created by the absence of a legal agreement covering the fishing activities that have taken place in the last ten months in that area. the commission is now obliged to correct the serious problems identified with this agreement, which we have long been denouncing, in possible future agreements.
in writing. - we welcome the rejection of the extension of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement. the rejection of the agreement shows that it is not viable from an economic point of view (it is one of the most expensive fisheries agreements the eu has with a third country) or from an ecological point of view, given the dangerous state of conservation of several stocks. however, the most serious issue we consider in this agreement is the implicit recognition of morocco's sovereignty over western sahara, its waters and fisheries resources. since 1975, with the opinion of the international court of justice, until today, morocco's sovereignty over the territory of western sahara has never been recognized. the eu-morocco fisheries agreement is illegal and violates all relevant un general assembly resolutions and international law. we therefore believe that any future protocol to be negotiated by the european commission must correct the serious problems identified with the previous and current protocols.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation and regret the european parliament's decision to refuse to extend the fishing agreement between portugal and morocco, in whose territorial waters several portuguese vessels operate, thus seriously damaging national interests at a time of deep crisis. the decision came about in a counter-cyclical way, at a time when morocco was embarking on reforms towards greater democratic openness, particularly following the adoption of a new constitutional text. the national vessels fishing in morocco were operating under an agreement signed in 2007 and extended in subsequent years, but which, as of 28 february, was awaiting renewal. i now expect that vessels which have paid their licences and are now unable to exercise their rights will be duly compensated for the damage caused.
in writing. − the external dimension of the cfp, and more specifically the partnership agreements with third countries, not only make it possible for the european fleet to be present in traditionally frequented external fisheries, but are also indispensable for obtaining important fishery products which contribute to ensuring the eu's food supply and play a major role in the economies of third countries. in the particular case of this agreement, the extension of the protocol is essential for the community fleets fishing there, particularly the portuguese fleet. it should be noted that there are portuguese vessels that have been operating in moroccan waters for many years, in particular under the fisheries agreement between the european union and that country which was in force from 1988 until 1999, when portugal was deprived of operating in moroccan waters, which led to the killing of several dozen vessels, with irreversible economic and social consequences for several of the portuguese fishing communities. in order to prevent such situations from recurring, and in view of the objectives of the external aspects of the cfp, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the kingdom of morocco is currently the largest recipient of european union funds under the european neighbourhood policy. this sign represents that the link between the two spaces is beyond mere geographical proximity or, to some extent, a common history: the european union is also currently involved in economic relations between the two areas. it is in this context that the protocol on fishing opportunities in moroccan waters and the financial contribution thereto is inserted. despite the rapporteur's reservations about the conclusion of the agreement, i understood, in line with the fisheries committee's understanding, that the agreement offered, in general terms, a positive solution. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, also taking into account the national interests involved.
in writing. − this recommendation aims to extend for a further year the protocol on the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and morocco. the protocol, signed in may 2006, sets out the fishing opportunities for eu vessels, taking into account the available surplus and, at the same time, the financial compensation on utilisation, the second highest rate in the eu, and support for the sustainable development of the sector. despite the many divergent issues regarding the outcomes/consequences of this agreement, particularly with regard to cost-effectiveness, species sustainability, environmental issues and the western sahara issue, i think it will be important to extend the agreement for another three months and, at the same time, to start negotiations on a new protocol to the fisheries agreement that addresses the shortcomings described above.
in writing. - i approve this report. the numerical composition of each standing committee as set out in this report seems to me appropriate, in view of its responsibilities and the total number of members.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because the increase in the number of meps makes it necessary to adjust the numerical composition of committees.
in writing. - i agree with the change in the number of members of parliament's standing committees. this is fully justified by provisions contained either in a protocol to the treaties or in the rules of procedure themselves. it would be a pity if the house were unable or unwilling to adapt its composition and way of working to the number of its members and, in particular, if this adaptation were not also reflected in the number of members in its committees, a fundamental element in its structure.
in writing. the proposal for a decision is on the numerical composition of the european parliament's standing committees and was tabled in accordance with rule 183 of the rules of procedure, which reads as follows: on a proposal from the conference of presidents, parliament shall set up standing committees, the terms of reference of which shall be laid down in an annex to these rules of procedure. the election of the members of these committees shall take place at the first part-session following the election of the new parliament and a second time after a period of two and a half years. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon after the elections to the european parliament in 2009, i.e. on 1 december 2009, resulted in the election of only 736 meps, in accordance with the treaty of nice, when there was already agreement for the election of 751. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. because it is necessary to streamline procedures and to continue the work of these committees, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a decision on the numerical composition of the standing committees of the ep.
in writing. - with the increase in the number of meps following the enlargement to croatia, there is a need to change the numerical composition of the standing committees. i am therefore in favour of the proposed amendment.
in writing. − the european parliament approves the amendment of the numerical composition of parliamentary committees to accommodate the new members who take office following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon. i voted in favour, because new members have the right to take their seats in the european parliament and its bodies, to enjoy their rights fully and to participate fully in the committees. this resolution decides, on the basis of the decision of the conference of presidents of 9 july 2009, that the committees' desks may be composed of a maximum of four vice-presidents.
in writing. - having regard to the need to ensure continuity of the work of parliament's committees and to the fact that, following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, new members are entitled to take their seats in the european parliament and its bodies, in full enjoyment of their rights, i voted in favour of amending the numerical composition of parliamentary committees as proposed by the conference of presidents.
in writing. - i approve this report. the numerical composition of delegations and multilateral parliamentary assemblies presented in this report seems to me appropriate, in view of their responsibilities and the total number of members.
in writing. - as regards the standing committees, i agree with the change in the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations, the delegations to the joint parliamentary committees and the delegations to the parliamentary cooperation committees and the multilateral parliamentary assemblies of this parliament. this is fully justified by provisions contained either in a protocol to the treaties or in the rules of procedure themselves. it would be a pity if the house were unable or unwilling to adjust its composition and its way of working to the number of members.
in writing. the motion for a resolution before us concerns the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations and was tabled in accordance with rule 198 of the rules of procedure, which reads as follows: 1. parliament shall, on a proposal from the conference of presidents, set up interparliamentary delegations and determine the nature and number of their members in accordance with their respective responsibilities. the election of the members of the delegations shall take place during the first or second part-session following the election of the new parliament, for a term equal to that of the parliamentary term. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, after the european parliament elections in 2009, led to the late election of 18 meps who were thus prevented from fully exercising their functions, including in the various bodies of the european parliament. because it is necessary to streamline procedures and to continue the work carried out by these delegations in the context of the european union's external policy, i am voting in favour of the proposal for the composition of the interparliamentary delegations as follows: relations with the arabian peninsula: 18 members; relations with india: 28 members; relations with the korean peninsula: 17 members; and relations with south africa: 17 members.
in writing. − with the increase in the number of members following the enlargement to croatia, there is a need to change the numerical composition of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies. i am therefore in favour of the new compositions of these organs.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (a7-0619/2011), i voted in favour, since new members are entitled to take their seats in the european parliament and its bodies, to enjoy their rights fully, and to participate fully in interparliamentary delegations, in delegations to joint parliamentary committees and in delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies.
in writing. − considering the need to ensure continuity in the work of the interparliamentary delegations, the delegations to joint parliamentary committees and the delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and the multilateral parliamentary assemblies of the european parliament, and that, following the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, new members are entitled to take their seats in the european parliament and its bodies, in full enjoyment of their rights, i voted in favour of amending the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations, the delegations to joint parliamentary committees and the delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and the multilateral parliamentary assemblies, as proposed by the conference of presidents.
in writing. - with the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, it became necessary to recast the numerical composition of the interparliamentary delegations. the proposal is the result of the agreement reached by the conference of presidents and i have no objection to it. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − i approve this appointment, taking into account the experience and background of the person appointed and the fact that the procedure was carried out in accordance with the normal procedures.
in writing. − the european central bank, established on 1 june 1998, is the european union institution responsible for the monetary policy of the economic and monetary union. its main objectives are to preserve the purchasing power of the euro and to ensure price stability in its area. the ecb, based in frankfurt, germany, is headed by an executive board composed of a president, a vice-president and four vice-presidents, appointed by the european council after consulting the ep and the governing council for a non-renewable term of office of eight years. in view of the prestige and experience of mr benoît coeuré in monetary matters, as demonstrated by the unanimous approval obtained in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i support his appointment as a member of the executive board of the ecb. given the importance of the ecb's role in preserving the purchasing power and stability of the euro, i hope that the new member will have a good mandate, aware that, given the crisis the eu is going through, it is more important than ever that we have a strong and stable euro.
in writing. - the european institutions must be served by the best. in this case, the newly appointed benoît coeuré has a spotless record and was approved with distinction at the hearing held in the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. i therefore wish him every success in his eight years in office.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr benoît coeuré as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. all the information submitted and on which my decision was based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr benoît coeuré to that post.
in writing. - the council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of mr benoît coeuré as a member of the executive board of the european central bank for an eight-year term. benoît coeuré has been deputy director of the french treasury since 2009, with a long experience in economic and financial governance. for example, he has previously served as head of multilateral affairs and development or head of the unit for foreign exchange policy and economic policy, both at the french treasury. he has also represented france at the g7 and g8. as someone with a great deal of experience in this field, i voted in favour, hoping that his action would be guided by the guiding principles of union law and that, if it remained so, it would be crowned with success.
in writing. − by letter of 1 december 2011, the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of benoît coeuré as the spokesperson of the executive board of the european central bank for a term of office of eight years, and subsequently the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs assessed the credentials of the nominee, having received his cv and the answers to the written questionnaire sent to him and held a hearing of one and a half hours. in view of the favourable opinion of this commission, i supported this appointment.
in writing. - due to its privileged location in north africa, the kingdom of morocco has a vast exclusive maritime area which has been coveted by various fishing fleets, including european ones, throughout the ages. this quasi-territorial continuity has fostered the establishment of privileged economic relations between the european union and the kingdom of morocco, making it the largest beneficiary of eu funds under the european neighbourhood policy and enshrining europe as the main destination for its exports. unfortunately, parliament has just ruled out the possibility of extending the partnership agreement with morocco. however, we cannot go on for long without a new agreement, otherwise the european fishing fleets operating in moroccan waters will go bankrupt and moroccan development aid will be cancelled. i therefore call for a new negotiation to be launched with a view to concluding a new agreement between the eu and morocco. i therefore urge the commission to draw up as soon as possible a new economic, ecological and socially sustainable agreement with morocco, not only to continue to support the moroccan populations so in need of support, but also to allow the fishing fleets licensed for that region to resume their activities.
in writing. - first of all, we believe that a future fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco must be in accordance with international law, which is not the case with the one that expired this year and which parliament has agreed, just today, not to give its consent to extend. this was one of the reasons why this happened. since 1975, with the opinion of the international court of justice, until today, morocco's sovereignty over the territory of western sahara has never been recognized. morocco, which has been occupying this territory illegally ever since, has therefore no sovereign right under international law over the natural resources of the territory, in particular its fisheries resources. it is therefore regrettable that the resolution adopted by the major political groups - the epp, s&d and liberals - simply ignores this issue when it comes to discussing a future agreement. we therefore regret the rejection of both our resolution and the two amendments we tabled, which sought to defend the inalienable sovereign rights of the people of western sahara over the natural resources on their territory. it is imperative that the legitimate representatives of the sarawi people be heard on any agreement involving the exploitation of natural resources from their territory.
in writing. - we believe that a future fisheries agreement between the eu and morocco must be in line with international law, which was not the case with the one that expired this year and for which the european parliament has decided not to give its consent to an extension. this was one of the reasons why this happened. since 1975, with the opinion of the international court of justice, until today, morocco's sovereignty over the territory of western sahara has never been recognized. morocco, which has been occupying this territory illegally ever since, has therefore no sovereign right under international law over the natural resources of the territory, in particular its fisheries resources. it is therefore regrettable that the resolution adopted by the largest political groups - the epp, s&d and liberals - simply ignores this issue when it comes to discussing a future agreement. we therefore regret the rejection of both our resolution and the two amendments we tabled, which sought to defend the inalienable sovereign rights of the people of western sahara over the natural resources on their territory. it is imperative that the legitimate representatives of the sarawi people be heard on any agreement involving the exploitation of natural resources from their territory.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution with the intention that in future negotiations on the fisheries partnership agreement with the kingdom of morocco the interests of all fishermen operating in this area, in particular the 14 portuguese vessels which had exploitation rights under the previous agreement which was not extended, should be safeguarded, which has caused serious damage to them.
in writing. - as regards the waters of western sahara, their representatives were never heard or taken into account in the negotiations or the agreement. the un and the european court of justice declare that the occupied territories of western sahara are not part of moroccan territory, and therefore morocco cannot negotiate something that is not its own. i voted against this protocol because i believe that the european union should negotiate with morocco a protocol which fully respects international law and human rights and which benefits all the local populations concerned.
in writing. the motion for a resolution tabled today, expressing its disapproval of the proposal for a protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco, is based on the idea that morocco, which does not have sovereignty over the territorial waters adjacent to western sahara, would not have the legitimacy to conclude the agreement. i think that, however, and regardless of the position taken on the substance, this is a wider issue and should be considered in another context, taking the problem in its entirety at the outset. i therefore voted against the motion.
in writing. - i welcome this report which confirms that member states are increasingly cutting back on defence and security, as a result of the current economic crisis. it is important that this situation does not promote a european inability to act on the international stage, particularly to pursue its peace missions. at this time, more than ever, the solution to improving the effectiveness of the defence sector lies in close cooperation between the various member states, european institutions and international organisations.
in writing. − the current context of budgetary consolidation has led many member states to reduce their defence spending, which could severely limit the eu's military intervention capacity. it is therefore necessary to strengthen military cooperation between member states to avoid duplication of costs, to provide economies of scale and to facilitate the development of military technology in the eu. this report meets these requirements and has therefore received my vote in favour.
in writing. - like other sectors, defence has not escaped successive cuts prompted by the financial crisis affecting the european union. however, it must be said that this is not a sector like any other and that divestment from it can have serious consequences for the security and defence of the member states. at a time when the united states of america, the main guarantor of peace and democracy in the world since the second world war, is seeking to redefine its strategic positioning at global level and is making it increasingly clear that it must be able to count on the involvement of its partners in missions affecting the security of all, to reduce european investment in defence means exposing europe to less and worse military capability. in fact, it is becoming increasingly clear that if the union is not to stop the road to irrelevance, it must take its share of the burden-sharing of the western-based democracies. to say so is not to promote waste and certainly not war. europe cannot be indifferent to a rule that is often centuries old: se vis pacem, para bellum.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis facing all member states in general is forcing a rethinking of the priorities of a government which, while not forgetting the need for economic growth, should take measures of social and environmental protection which do not compromise the future. as the european union is an enlarging community of states (27+1), the principle of subsidiarity is fully applied and can represent a significant saving of human and financial resources. the european security and defence policy (esdp) is made up of several areas. in order to reduce costs without losing efficiency, we must identify the most effective projects, such as surveillance, maritime surveillance, control of the use of certain weapons, etc. i welcome the adoption of this report by mr krysztof lisek on the consequences of the austerity imposed by the crisis in the defence sector, which i voted in favour of, and which, while not neglecting the maintenance of the missions in which the eu is involved, such as monitoring in georgia, the horn of africa, protection of humanitarian aid, prevention of ship hijacking, etc., calls for an understanding between all member states and better coordination with other organisations and powers, such as nato and the usa.
in writing. it is shocking, to say the least, that in the present context of a profound economic and social crisis, which is the pretext for all kinds of attacks and plunderings of workers and peoples, the proposals and guidelines contained in this report are being advanced. what is at stake is a militaristic agenda, a relaunching of the arms race which, in this context of crisis, is preparing new and dangerous developments for the peoples of the world. the eu's militarization is being defended as a qualitative leap forward, increasingly subordinated to nato and its agenda of global domination. in line with the lisbon treaty, the aim is to increase eu military spending and to give the european defence agency a political planning role. the report goes so far as to advocate a kind of european semester which defines the priorities to be implemented by each country or by groups of countries, in a framework which is not one of defending the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of countries, but of their specialisation for the reinforcement of eu interventionism in the world. all this while cutting social spending and imposing genuine civilizational regressions. the rapporteur's writing is the military-industrial complex, the war industry, which is speaking out here in defence of its interests.
in writing. - there are many reasons why we voted against this report. its central objective is the implementation of a militaristic agenda and the relaunching of the arms race which, in the wake of the crisis, is preparing new and dangerous developments for the peoples and countries of europe and the world. he advocates a qualitative leap in the militarisation of the eu, which is increasingly subordinated to nato and its agenda of global domination. it aims to implement and develop the tools created by the lisbon treaty, in particular the increase of eu military spending within nato and the assignment of a policy planning role to the european defence agency. it aims to implement enhanced cooperation and a kind of european semester which defines the priorities to be implemented by each country, or by groups of countries, in a framework which is not one of defending the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of countries, but of their specialisation for the reinforcement of eu interventionism in the world. at a time when social expenditure is being drastically cut, robbing workers and peoples of important rights and gains, the guidelines proposed here aim to finance the military-industrial complex, either directly through support and arms purchases or indirectly through research funding from european funds.
in writing. − it is worrying to observe the trend towards cuts in defence budgets in most eu member states as a result of the financial, economic and debt crisis. in addition to having a negative effect on its military capabilities, these cuts may also reduce the eu's ability to fully assume its responsibilities for peacekeeping, conflict prevention and strengthening international security. a reinforced european defence capability will increase the strategic autonomy of the european union and make an important contribution to collective security in the context of nato and other partnerships. the european commission should therefore carry out an assessment of the impact of these budget cuts on the development of capabilities in support of the european security and defence policy.
in writing. - i voted against paragraph 3 of this report which 'notes with concern that recent budget cuts are adding to the trend of more than a decade of underinvestment and under-use of funds by member states in the security and defence sectors' because it seems to me that, in the current situation of budget deficits and excessive public debt in several member states and of deepening the union's requirements for budget balance, it is not critical, but rather healthy, for member states to include the defence sector in the scope of reducing public expenditure, particularly in countries where defence spending is relatively high, as is the case in portugal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution mainly because i agree with the request made by the european parliament to allocate a more appropriate budget to the european union satellite centre. in fact, the centre operates on a modest budget and has demonstrated its efficiency and added value in a number of security and defence operations. the growing demand for satellite imagery and the importance it has shown in recent events in north africa are worth recalling. in view of its civil-military use, i agree with the proposal for this centre to be financed from the eu budget.
in writing. - despite the large number of states that make up the european union, the community defence system still has a number of weaknesses. the reasons for this are many: in addition to the most basic reference to the budgetary weaknesses of the various member states, there is a lack of coordination between the defence policy of the various member states. in fact, policy coordination between the various member states would allow for a better optimisation of resources, making it possible to create a genuine european defence force, based on the complementarity between the armed forces of the various states. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear power stations being shut down. i believe that defence policy is one of the greatest challenges facing the european union, without which political sovereignty itself seems to be (effectively) in jeopardy.
in writing. − this report takes a comprehensive approach to look at areas in the defence sector where more can be done with less, taking into account the impact of the financial crisis on the sector. the commission proposes action in six areas: better coordination of defence planning, better management and sharing of capabilities, increased support for defence research and technological development, the building of a european defence industrial and technological base, the launch of a european defence equipment market and the definition of new forms of european financing. i voted in favour of the document, along with the epp group to which i belong.
in writing. - i support this joint resolution, considering that russia and the eu are interdependent, both economically and politically, and that dialogue between them is essential for good neighbourly relations. it is necessary, however, that this summit sends a signal to the world that russia is ready to prove the democratic legitimacy of its system by strengthening cooperation with the european union. it is also important that the conciliation process should not only cover the internal aspects of the two blocs and good neighbourly relations, but also strengthened international cooperation within the framework of the united nations, which i believe is urgent, for example, in dealing with issues such as the one relating to the nuclear programme in iran.
in writing. − russia is one of the european union's most important partners in the development of strategic cooperation, sharing not only economic and trade interests but also the objective of close collaboration at international level. the eu and russia should take the opportunity of the next summit to accelerate negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. i would like to see more effort made to move the eu-russia modernisation partnership forward because i believe that modernisation will promote reforms, give new impetus to eu-russia relations and develop mutually beneficial cooperation in the fields of trade, economy and energy security, while contributing to the overall economic recovery.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that relations between the eu and russia must take account not only of economic and energy aspects but also of respect for and promotion of democracy and human rights. i support the need for new, free and fair elections in russia and the need for an investigation into all allegations of fraud and the punishment of those found responsible.
in writing. as i said earlier, russia's path towards a liberal pluralist democracy has been marked by ups and downs, but it is undeniable that it has been the same since the iron curtain. however, it is useless to deny that much remains to be done in this respect, and that the european union and the russian federation share not only a common historical, cultural and religious heritage but also interests and challenges which coincide and which justify a rapprochement at the most diverse levels. the summit on 15 december can be another opportunity to continue along this path.
in writing. − in december 2011, russia will finally be admitted to the world trade organisation. this situation, by promoting a market economy, will open up the largest economy outside the wto, boost trade and combat bad habits such as corruption. a partnership between the eu and russia is therefore very important for both communities, since we are their largest trading partner. the eu-russia summit which begins tomorrow should therefore be a prime moment for establishing a broad platform for understanding at various levels, not only commercial but also political and humanitarian. issues such as energy problems, terrorism, afghanistan and iran, corruption, respect for human rights and the establishment of democracy should be high on the agenda of this summit. it is essential that free and fair elections be held, without persecution of the opposition and with free media coverage. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that, although i consider this reinforcement essential, russia must prove that it is prepared to accept the rules of democracy and respect human rights.
in writing. - the temptation to advance and economic dominance of the eu powers over russia is great. this resolution once again demonstrates this. the market and natural resources of russia are more than desirable, they need them. all political, economic and diplomatic tools have been used: from eu and nato enlargements along its borders to economic and political pressures, which do not avoid interference. capitalist russia, inheriting the gains and acquisitions of socialism, has become a world economic power with its own interests that trigger inevitable inter-imperialist contradictions. in the confrontation of conflicting interests between capitalist powers, the eu states that the 'provision of natural resources must not be politically instrumentalised'. after all, its energy dependence is well known. it welcomed the completion of russia's accession to the wto and its agenda for global trade liberalisation. the emphasis on electoral fraud that is being put on will not be so much for genuine democratic concerns as to facilitate political changes favourable to their interests, as it has done in other eastern european countries.
in writing. - this resolution insists on the eu's recurrent attempt at economic dominance over russia. it should be remembered that after fomenting the counter-revolution in the former soviet union, the eu and the us felt that the time had come to subject capitalist russia to their economic interests, namely its market and its natural resources. they have therefore used all the political, economic and diplomatic tools: open interference in their internal affairs, eu and nato enlargements along their borders and economic pressures. capitalist russia, the heir to the achievements of socialism in the soviet union, has become a world economic power with its own interests, exacerbating contradictions between the capitalist powers. the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is not disrupted by terrorist attacks. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. by highlighting the electoral fraud, they do so more to seize the moment and try to destabilize russia than out of democratic concerns. in practice, they want to bring about political changes in their own interests, as has happened in other eastern european countries.
in writing. − russia remains one of the european union's most important partners in the development of strategic cooperation, sharing not only economic and trade interests but also the objective of close collaboration at international level. the summit is thus an opportunity to accelerate the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement with a view to concluding a comprehensive, legally binding agreement covering political, economic and social issues and covering all areas related to democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. democracy and human rights should be an integral part of the agreement, in particular with regard to the definition and inclusion of an effective and operational human rights clause.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution based on the principle that good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are fundamental to stability, security and prosperity within and outside europe.
in writing. - relations between the eu and russia are of a different order: in addition to sharing at least some of the same cultural background, they have a shared past (although sometimes in a latent conflict). on the other hand, some states that were part of the ussr, the main republic of which was the russian federation, are now eu member states. it is also worth noting that these two regions are privileged economic partners, particularly in the energy sector, and that russia, in addition to its ties with europe, is above all one of the world's great powers. all these elements should be present at the next eu-russia summit, and the following conditions should be attached to community action: as an economic partner, the eu must increase relations between the two spaces, as a political partner, or neighbouring political space, the union must act in favour of fair and democratic electoral processes and a rule of law based on the primacy of the person. these are the points which are included in the resolution which has been tabled and which i have therefore voted in favour of.
in writing. − the year 2011 is symbolic as it marks the 20th anniversary of the dissolution of the soviet union and the independence of the states from the communist dictatorship. over the past 20 years, several steps have been taken between the russian federation and the eu towards genuine cooperation. however, the strategic partnership agreement with russia has not yet been reached and is of the utmost importance, as russia is a key partner for international cooperation. the geostrategic situation of the russian federation and cooperation in its regional space are central to global stability and security. however, the implementation of this agreement must safeguard full respect for human rights, freedom of the press and democratic pluralism. the denunciations of the latest events in the 4 december elections must not be repeated in a country with a seat in the main international organisations. at the next summit, these issues should be put on the table. despite the importance of this strategic partner, particularly in energy supply, the eu must speak with one voice and must not forget its basic principles, which it imposes on other partners.
in writing. - i support this report because it highlights the principles of territorial cooperation which also apply to external borders as a key instrument for improving the eu's economic development, as well as the general objectives of the union's enp, which is the promotion of democracy. these goals can only be achieved with the collaboration of civil society and regional and local authorities, with the aim of finding practical ways to meet the needs of citizens on the ground and to take into account the diversity of territorial situations in the enp countries, while promoting the principles of subsidiarity and multi-level governance. i would like to draw attention to the importance of involving the outermost regions of the union more actively, as active borders with third countries and regions with special historical and cultural links with, for example, africa, north america and south america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the revision of the european neighbourhood policy, which has as its main objectives to consolidate security, democratic stability and prosperity in the eu's neighbouring countries. i believe that this revision will bring the eu closer to its neighbours and that the european neighbourhood policy can be more efficient and fairer. the european union needs to increase its support for institutional development and capacity building, civil society and democratisation processes, in particular with regard to women's participation and socioeconomic development.
in writing. - i supported the excellent report by mr mário david and mr marek siwiec because i fully agree with the idea that relations with neighbouring countries cannot continue to be centred mainly on security and migration control. it is also essential to give priority to issues related to the defence of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and prosperity. the negotiation of association agreements is the ideal occasion to help push forward the necessary reforms, where conditions, timetables and concrete result indicators should be agreed, but making it clear that cooperation between these countries and the union will be directly conditional on democratic progress and respect for human rights in these countries. the migration relations between the union and its neighbours cannot be reduced to the union's security priorities. it is essential to improve the management of migration and maximise its mutual development benefits by providing new pathways and better conditions for the establishment of legal migrants in the eu, taking into account the demographic, sociological and occupational balances on both sides, while tackling the root causes of irregular migration in third countries and bringing legal action against organisations engaged in trafficking in human beings.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to thank my colleague and friend marek siwiek for his excellent work on the eastern part of our report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues for the many suggestions which have been put forward and which i believe have greatly enriched this work. i would also like to commend the excellent work of the commission's secretariat and political advisers. i also thank you for the excellent and continuing cooperation we have had with vice-president ashton and commissioner füle. with this report, we seek to ensure that the future european neighbourhood policy (enp) is based on a bottom-up approach and tailor-made policies for each country: greater differentiation and greater conditionality and more for more or less for less in defence of the universal values we possess and share, without seeking to impose any predefined model or formula. it is with great satisfaction that i note that the enp is now based on the pursuit of our common values, on a commitment to democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. now is the time to act! which i hope will be without delay, for tomorrow is too late!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i advocate a revision of the european neighbourhood policy based on the promotion of democracy and human rights, in particular women's rights, the fight against corruption and the promotion of sustainable development. the strengthening of the enp must be achieved through the creation of a stable network of institutional arrangements, dedicated to the development of further economic integration and political association between the eu and all the partners involved.
in writing. - i thank the co-rapporteur, mr mário david, for having accepted my suggestion and, together with other portuguese colleagues, for having tabled an amendment to the original text of the resolution reiterating parliament's support for the eu-cape verde special partnership, which has produced such good results. cape verde is exemplary in terms of democracy and human rights and, with its limited resources, has brought about real improvements in the quality of life of its people. i can only rejoice at this support and recall that it was this parliament's resolution on the european neighbourhood policy of 19 january 2006 that first recognised the specificity and historical, geographical and linguistic proximity of cape verde to the union and promoted the adoption of european policies aimed at it. this vote of confidence is fully justified, as is the recognition that the european neighbourhood policy must look further afield if it is to have a correct view of europe's geostrategic position. the call for the european union to continue to strengthen dialogue and convergence with cape verde and to support its efforts to achieve political, economic and social consolidation is also justified.
in writing. - the report under review, by colleagues mário david and marek siwiec, focuses on the review of the european neighbourhood policy and could not be more timely. it comes at a crucial time, in fact: the end of a year during which significant political changes have taken place in many of the european union's neighbours, particularly in eastern europe, on the southern side of the mediterranean sea, with the so-called arab spring. the aim of the enp is to support the development of neighbouring countries without imposing a preconceived formula. however, if the eu provides financial support, it cannot but require these countries to make certain commitments, such as respect for human rights and the freedoms and guarantees of citizens, the implementation of good governance and the rule of law, the fight against corruption, respect for minorities, environmental protection, etc. the eu must continue its contacts with its neighbours, we need secure external borders but open to democracy, tolerance and respect. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am sure that this revision of the enp will certainly help the eu to ensure that its values are respected and its objectives achieved.
in writing. - the objective of this european neighbourhood policy has been none other than the expansion of the economic domain of the european union, particularly of its major powers. the scarce or simply non-existent funds for programmes and funds to tackle various social problems contrast with the resources and political will to promote the liberalisation of investment, the domination of natural resources and markets by the economic groups of the major eu powers. we are faced with policies which aim to achieve quite different objectives of promoting mutual respect and interests between countries. in times of crisis of capitalist accumulation, this policy gains redoubled importance and aggressiveness. and so there is a majority in this parliament promoting support for the development of political parties and the creation of ngos and civil society organisations (which facilitate and promote their interests). the pace and scale of the colossal profits demanded by ever-growing economic and financial groups are incompatible with the existence of rulers who have a sense of defending the interests of their people.
in writing. - in a report on neighbourhoods, you want to say that with neighbours like these (eu) it is better to move house... but since this is not possible in the geography of the countries, we will continue to denounce a european neighbourhood policy whose central axis is the expansion of the eu's economic sphere. there is no money to increase programmes and funds dedicated to social problems in the eu and beyond, but there is, and is increasing, for policies which are not aimed at promoting mutual respect and interest between countries, but rather at achieving the liberalisation of investments, the domination of natural resources and markets by the economic groups of the major powers of the eu. in times of crisis of capitalist accumulation, this policy gains redoubled importance and aggressiveness. and so there is the majority of the ep promoting support for the development of political parties and the creation of ngos and civil society organisations (which facilitate and promote their interests, of course). the pace and scale of the colossal profits demanded by ever-growing economic and financial groups are hardly compatible with rulers who can, even in the slightest degree, defend the interests of their people.
in writing. − i believe that the strategic review of the enp (european neighbourhood policy) should reflect a strong political commitment by all partners to common values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance. this new process will give a new impetus to this policy and lead to improved relations with neighbouring countries. we must also acknowledge the efforts that some partners have been making in terms of a commitment to building a sustainable democracy and ensure a permanent dialogue to encourage all the reforms already under way, taking into account, of course, the specific economic development of each partner country. finally, i believe that the enp should be dynamic and seek to improve in line with the progress made by these countries in dealing with certain problems of common interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe, together with the rapporteurs, that the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is an opportunity for the eu to effectively achieve its objectives and respect its values, as enshrined in articles 2, 3, 6, 8 and 21 of the teu. i commend my colleague, mario david, for the work he has done on this report.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy provides a common framework of reference for relations between the european union and neighbouring states. the timing of its revision offers, in view of the characteristics of this policy, the opportunity to reflect on its guiding principle: the creation or consolidation of a prosperous political space of peace, based on respect between the various states, the recognition of the rule of law and the primacy of the individual, economic cooperation as a means of bringing peoples closer together. in short, it is a question of designing the community acquis in relation to neighbouring states. the aim is to enrich the common heritage with the elements that the various traditions of the neighbouring states can offer. i voted in favour of the proposal because that is the general thrust of the proposal.
in writing. − the document addresses the eu's relations with its neighbours to the south and east, and the ongoing democratic transition in the arab spring countries, calling for greater involvement of local communities and authorities and civil society, considering that only their participation can ensure maximum effectiveness in the implementation of our neighbourhood policy. this new strategy recognises the limited results of the past and places a strong focus on the promotion of human rights and democracy, including through support for democratic transformation and institutional adjustment, for which the inclusion of all civil society actors is essential.
in writing. - i support this report, since a serious and concerted effort at european level is needed to combat all forms of terrorism, which unfortunately has become a recurrent phenomenon in europe. counter-terrorism policies should be linked to the eu security strategy being prepared. for the eu approach to be more consistent, measures must be implemented in line with national initiatives. but in fact the priority must be to pursue close judicial cooperation. of course, these policies must be developed in accordance with the provisions of eu primary law and, in particular, must give priority to respect for the rights recognised in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. finally, all these efforts should be subject to continuous evaluation with a view to improving the strategy.
in writing. − eu citizens want to be safe inside and outside the eu, and the eu has an important role to play in this regard. i voted in favour of the report on the eu's counter-terrorism policy, because i believe that terrorism is a constantly evolving phenomenon which must be combated by a counter-terrorism policy that responds to this evolution. i also believe that it is appropriate to deepen and develop the four essential aspects of the strategy to combat terrorism: prevent, protect, prosecute and respond.
in writing. − although terrorism is not a recent phenomenon, it has taken on new forms in recent decades and terrorist networks have become more complex in terms of structure, means and funding, making the terrorist threat more complex and with more devastating consequences. terrorism is a constantly evolving phenomenon which must be combated in an appropriate manner, focusing on four essential aspects: prevent, protect, prosecute and respond. therefore, counter-terrorism policies, both at eu and member state level, must also be able to keep pace with these developments, but always in full respect of fundamental rights. there is a need for a coherent approach at eu and member state level to initiatives taken in the field of internal security, including terrorism and organised crime, in order to identify any remaining gaps and overlaps or duplications of counter-terrorism actions and instruments. terrorism is a phenomenon that can affect the security of the entire union, and it is the duty of the union and its institutions to combat it and to ensure that the values on which our free, open and democratic societies are based are respected, and that they contribute to the possibility for every citizen to live in safety and without fear.
in writing. − terrorism is a latent threat that unfortunately prevails in our society, as the europol report (2011) on the situation and trends of terrorism in the eu (te-sat 2010) states. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to respond to the threat of terrorism. i therefore welcome the commission's communication, although i agree with the rapporteur that it should be more closely linked to the internal security strategy and could have been even more comprehensive, particularly as regards creating the conditions for greater coordination and coherence between european policies and the policies of individual member states, including at international level. i would also like to draw attention to the idea that the charter of fundamental rights should in principle be the reference for eu and member state policies in this field, as well as for cooperation with third parties and third countries. i have already said that the report is comprehensive and relevant, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu, its member states and partner countries must adopt a strategy to combat international terrorism in full respect of the rule of law and fundamental rights. the european union's external action in this field should have as its primary objective prevention by promoting dialogue, tolerance and understanding between different cultures, civilizations and religions.
in writing. - this year marks the 10th anniversary of the terrible attacks of 11 september 2001 in the united states. never before, as on that day, had the world realized the global, borderless, and absolute threat that was terrorism. then came the attacks in madrid and london, which brought terror within our borders with a violence never before known on european soil. ten years later, terrorism is one of the greatest threats to the life of contemporary societies and therefore deserves not only the utmost repudiation but also the greatest possible combined efforts to eradicate it. it is now clear that the states are not capable of dealing with an increasingly global threat and that this threat can only be mitigated if they join forces and share information efficiently and quickly, and if they coordinate effectively in terms of resources and personnel.
in writing. - modern societies with a high degree of comfort and sophistication should be synonymous with safety. but what we have seen in this first decade of the 21st century is that technology has been used to carry out what we can consider the most serious and violent terrorist attack of all time: the attacks of september 11 in the united states. but europe was not left unscathed! in 2004, madrid, in 2005, london! i was in the same place. not to mention norway this summer and belgium during this plenary session. this is not to mention religious terrorism, especially in islamic countries, as happened in egypt. the feeling of insecurity on the part of citizens is great and no one can guarantee that they are safe from a terrorist attack. it is a huge threat to international stability and requires a global response, because it is a scourge that knows no borders. international cooperation in the form of a good intelligence network and an effective police, judicial, political and sometimes military system can help to weaken terrorist activity. i welcome the adoption of this report which harmonizes the european security strategy and the internal security strategy in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - the so-called fight against terrorism has been used over the past decade as a pretext to justify a security drift which has opened the way to unacceptable restrictions on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. this escalation is supported theoretically and ideologically by the false dichotomy between security and freedom and the deliberate confusion between security and defence. the consequences of this fight against terrorism are well known: invasion and occupation of sovereign countries, hundreds of thousands of dead, millions of refugees, the creation of concentration camps and a worldwide network of secret prisons, or even the adoption of legislation restricting and providing for the suspension of fundamental democratic rights. these abuses, which the eu has sometimes condoned, are an integral part of the fight against terrorism. this report, like the resolution that was finally adopted, is part of that vision. we strongly reject it, as it does not make any contribution to the fight against real terrorism and the transnational crime associated with it. on the contrary, it poses real dangers to the security and fundamental freedoms of citizens in the various member states. the resolution adopted also whitewashes the past ten years of the fight against terrorism, by ignoring the causes that fuel terrorism and omitting state terrorism.
in writing. ten years after the crime against the american people, the attacks of september 11, reality shows how imperialism has exploited it, unleashing a paranoia of security that has served to perpetuate the false dichotomy between security and freedom, with the very serious consequences known to us: invasion and occupation of sovereign countries, hundreds of thousands of deaths, millions of refugees, the creation of concentration camps and a worldwide network of secret prisons, or even the adoption of legislation restricting and providing for the suspension of democratic rights. these abuses, many of which are the shared responsibility of the eu or at least its connivance, are an integral part of the strategy of a supposed fight against terrorism which we reject (and this report is part of that strategy), because they do not add any value in the fight against real terrorism and the transnational crime associated with it. on the contrary, it does involve real dangers to the security and fundamental freedoms of citizens in the various member states. in addition, this report whitewashes the ten years of the so-called fight against terrorism, by ignoring the causes that fuel terrorism and omitting state terrorism. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this report, supporting the position of the epp, because i think it has the wrong approach to fighting terrorism. the rapporteur sees a number of ideological considerations in the text with which i cannot agree. only the substantial changes to the text proposed by the epp amendments would make it possible to improve the regulation in such a way that it would merit my support.
in writing. − this own-initiative report entitled 'eu counter-terrorism policy: key achievements and future challenges' calls on the commission to map out a comprehensive and detailed map of all counter-terrorism policies in europe, with particular focus on eu legislation and how it has been transposed and implemented at union level. i think that is one of the important measures and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i would have preferred voting and approving the in ’t veld report adopted in the committee on civil liberties last july, which had stronger wording. unfortunately we have been forced to express our vote first on an alternative motion for resolution (amr) that looked to be the only possible positive compromise. the amr nevertheless proposes a strict evaluation of the eu counter-terrorism policies; it insists on strengthening civil liberties, providing clear guidelines as to how to ensure counter-terrorism policies are proportional, necessary and efficient and bound by an objective and transparent evaluation process, and stresses that prevention, investigation and prosecution should be based on the judicial and police cooperation coupled with full parliamentary scrutiny and completion of the road map for uniform procedural guarantees: i.e. the only answer to terrorism can be more rule of law and democracy. for these reasons, i have voted in favour of the amr despite the reference to the definition of ‘terrorism’ as it is formulated in the framework decision 2002/475/jha, which we have always opposed as a group and that has been introduced against our will. the substantially positive elements of the amr undoubtedly outweighed the few negative references.
in writing. - terrorism is one of the major challenges facing the modern rule of law, having clearly broken with the classical paradigm of sovereignty. with the terrorist attacks of 2001, it became clear that there are global, or at least transnational, threats that can only be tackled together. this is the basis on which this phenomenon should be understood: the european states should devise a common policy to deal with this phenomenon. should not sacrifice their fundamental axiological framework of respect for the rights of persons and any measure adopted should pass the proportionality test; on the other hand, the policy approach to terrorism should not only be reactive (or ex post) but also preventive (or ex ante). finally, it is emphasized that measures adopted, at least at community level, should be subject to the scrutiny of the european parliament, even if only superficially.
in writing. - the last ten years have been marked by the war on terrorism, following the attacks of 11 september 2001. although these events took place on american soil, the preparation for them took place partly in europe and other attacks have occurred on european soil in the meantime. the eu is a potential target and the concern for the safety of its citizens is prominent. the report on the eu's counter-terrorism policy, which was tabled in plenary today, welcomes the commission's communication and its four areas for the future: preventing terrorist acts, protecting people and infrastructure, pursuing terrorist movements and responding to post-attack situations. following the position of the epp group, to which i belong, i voted against the overall amendment proposed to the document and which replaced it.
madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the proposal to amend the regulation of the european maritime safety agency, in particular with regard to the extension of its powers. emsa, which provides technical support and assistance in the field of maritime safety and security in the area of pollution caused by ships, has been playing an increasingly important role in the protection of the marine environment. i take this opportunity to highlight the quality of the work carried out by this agency, as i have had the opportunity to see during my visits to this agency. i am glad that this report reinforces the points i have been advocating in the itre committee and which have already been approved by this house in the ford report. these are the prevention and response mechanisms in case of environmental disasters related to oil and gas exploration platforms. in the current economic and financial crisis, and in the logic of economies of scale, it makes perfect sense to use existing infrastructure and expand its powers, and never to create new structures or a new agency. i stress the need for coordination at eu level and with neighbouring countries to ensure best practice and harmonisation of the various approaches in the various regions of the eu both in accident prevention and in response coordination. only a global approach will make the oil and gas sector safer and will help to deal with the environmental, economic and social damage caused by accidents at sea.
madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work and to stress my support for strengthening the capacity to prevent, assist and combat marine pollution, particularly on oil and gas platforms. as the report states, this reinforcement, if it is to be effective, must be accompanied, where necessary, by a redeployment of staff and adequate funding. the sea and its resources are a global asset, and the search for solutions must be coordinated with all the actors involved. cooperation with third countries and the application of existing innovative services, in particular the use of the potential of the egnos and galileo programmes, should be promoted in order to create a genuine european maritime area without frontiers. the motorways of the sea are a privileged instrument for making this space a reality, and i call for greater attention to be paid to maritime transport and for priority to be given to the removal of the various obstacles it faces on a daily basis.
once again, by invoking just aims, what is being sought is to avenge intentions quite different from those aims. the report refers to environmental objectives, energy efficiency, decarbonisation, interoperability - all very well - but in doing so it immediately tries to make clear what is really coming. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. each country has its own needs and priorities at this level, which arise from its specificities and its relative level of development. the question is therefore: what interests will this european transport policy serve? the interest of european multinationals who want to flood markets with their products quickly and cheaply? it is certainly very different from the interests of national smes and the people who see the closure of railway lines and the brutal increase in transport prices, as is the case in portugal with the coverage of the imf and european union programme.
i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done, and particularly welcome the introduction of an annual evaluation which will make it possible to monitor progress and, if necessary, adapt the targets to the reality of the member states. only in this way can certain objectives be avoided, as was the case in the 2001 white paper. i would also like to stress the need to coordinate the funding of the transeuropean networks with the regional policy funds, in particular the cohesion fund, and to clarify which projects are eligible for the 10 million euro from the cohesion fund allocated to transport under the connecting europe facility. a reference to the importance of the amendments concerning the outermost regions: for the first time, unlike the 2001 transport white paper, there is no reference to the outermost regions. if there are territories where the orography determines the completion of the internal market and the mobility of people, it is in these regions.
on behalf of the ppe group. i join the vote you have addressed to the presidency of the council, the commission and all colleagues, and i would like to recall that we have advocated strengthening judicial cooperation in criminal matters in order to establish a genuine european judicial area, promote rapid and effective legal aid, respecting fundamental guarantees of defence, procedural guarantees and general principles on human rights. judicial cooperation in criminal matters should be guided by trust between member states based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. we know that the conditions of detention and the management of prisons remain the responsibility of the member states, as the presidency of the council has reminded us, but there can be no mutual trust without respect for fundamental rights and without an effort to approximate the rights of suspects and accused persons and procedural rights in criminal proceedings. there are still huge differences between member states in terms of detention conditions. in some member states, these conditions are below the acceptable level, endangering not only judicial cooperation in criminal matters at the level of the european union, but also raising concerns in terms of the protection of fundamental rights and the possible violation of the charter of fundamental rights. there are significant differences in terms of prison overcrowding, inadequate prison structures, high numbers of detainees in remand, as well as the average length of time spent in remand. these situations undermine mutual trust, as vice-president kallas has already pointed out, and they raise problems in the implementation of the decision taken on the european arrest warrant. there have been several refusals to surrender detainees on the basis of the european arrest warrant by several member states. we want to call on the european commission to establish common minimum standards. i hope that the commission will be able to present an initiative taking into account the results of the public consultation triggered by the green paper referred to by commissioner kallas and i call on the member states, through the presidency of the council, to take urgent action to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners, in particular the rights of vulnerable persons, are respected and protected and to support the application of minimum standards of detention common to the whole of the european union.
the european arrest warrant and the conditions of detention in prisons are certainly a reminder to many european citizens of other situations that are also taking place in the european union. basically it's this mania that we have of doing things by halves: unifying where it's easy and then not harmonizing where it's hard. i am in favour of the advantages and i see the value of a european arrest warrant. i think it might be important for the victims, it might be important for justice to be done. but on the other hand, we cannot, and we have said this many times in this house, and the commission knows this very well, we cannot go on for much longer without, on the side of detention conditions, or the procedural conditions in general with which suspects and accused persons of a crime are treated, we cannot go forward with the european arrest warrant without, on the other hand, filling in these gaps that exist at the level of the european union. the european commission is now well aware of them. it has drawn up a green paper on the difference, the enormous variety of conditions of detention in the european union. we are now asking what the commission will do to harmonize these conditions, because without this it will always be very difficult for us, together with our citizens, to explain the purpose of a european arrest warrant and why some suspects are in conditions which are sometimes painful, degrading and inhuman in some of the countries of the union which have truly deplorable conditions of detention.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. we must ensure that equal rights are guaranteed for all, that the european union's guidelines and economic policies create the jobs needed for all and that the necessary economic and social mechanisms are guaranteed to avoid any kind of social dumping. it is therefore time to end the restrictions on access to the respective labour markets for romanian and bulgarian citizens, as in many cases these restrictions can serve as a cover for bogus self-employment and undeclared and irregular work, which undermines the rights of all workers, including workers from the host countries of bulgarian and romanian citizens. we know that the promotion of neoliberal policies is aggravating unemployment, precarious and low-paid work, undeclared work, where social dumping proliferates, where the exploitation of workers intensifies and where the culture of xenophobia and racism is created. we therefore insist on the need for policies of economic and social progress and also a firm fight against all forms of discrimination in defence of equal rights and opportunities and respect for the dignity of workers.
this plenary session will consider documents that reinforce the right of citizens to participate in the european common market and the principle of free movement of persons within the european union. one of the documents simplifies the bureaucracy involved in applying for residence and work. with the increasing movement between member states of people working and living in a member state other than their country of origin, a de-bureaucratization of procedures is needed to remove obstacles to a freedom acquired in the treaties, allowing citizens to enjoy their rights fully. since the free movement of persons is a fundamental right, which is exercised through the area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, the provisions of the schengen agreement, which has been extended to more member states since 1990, should be allowed to cover all eu countries definitively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed in the member states. the success of the european project lies in the feeling of belonging to the common space. freedom of movement is thus a right and an imperative for the construction of europe.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, after hearing the commissioner, the first word in this debate can only be indignation at the information he has given us about the council's refusal to extend the derogation because of the prolongation of the crisis, in order to have a more favourable clause in the financing of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this means that the countries with the greatest economic and social difficulties, those where the most firms have closed and where there is the most unemployment, are the ones that will be least able to use this fund. as we know, the requirement of 35% national funding for projects to support the unemployed which countries submitted for egf funding was already making it difficult for some member states to apply, especially those in the financial assistance situation. but to require that this funding be made only for the most limited cases of relocation of multinationals leaves out most of the cases presented and not yet covered. this situation in itself demonstrates the lack of solidarity of the european union. but if we add to all this other clauses in the egf regulation which lead to situations of great disparity in support, because they are based on a calculation based on the wages paid in the member state which uses the funding to support its unemployed workers, we can conclude that this fund is especially useful for the more developed countries with better economic and social conditions, such as germany, the netherlands and others, which maintain the blocking position with regard to the extension of the derogation from this fund. so here is our protest to this position. on the renault question, i would also like to express our full solidarity with the approximately 5 000 workers who have been made redundant, but we regret the confusion created by france around this application process for the european globalisation adjustment fund and its lack of dialogue with workers' representatives. we are, however, maintaining our position of solidarity with the workers and support for the mobilisation of this fund despite the criticisms we also continue to make of its rules of procedure.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has been in existence since 2007, provides eur 500 million annually. it is impressive that all the applications approved since then, 2007, have a contribution from this fund of only €370 million. in the face of the crisis that has plagued us since 2008, with the consequent increase in unemployment, we must improve the implementation of this fund. this is due, among other reasons, to the complexity of the fund and the fact that the european co-financing is only 65%, which places constraints on member states in greater financial difficulty. in addition to maintaining the derogation referred to above, i propose in the plenary that, in line with what has already been recently approved by the european parliament for the cohesion policy funds and the eafrd, an increase in european co-financing in this fund should also be approved, to 95% for the member states which are being assisted financially. as regards the report under discussion, concerning the more than 4 400 french workers made redundant, i can only say that the european globalisation adjustment fund can never be used as a political weapon, influenced by electoral calendars, because, as is obvious, it always harms, and in the first instance, the interests of workers. i therefore hope that this report will be adopted today in this house. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8))
he asks under the blue card procedure. madam president, i was pleased to hear our colleague say that he proposed here that this fund should now have community financing of 95% for the projects submitted. i would like to ask you this: i made this proposal in the committee on employment and social affairs. can you explain why the epp voted against?
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i appreciate the question. as regards the erdf, the cohesion policy funds and the european social fund, there were many people who also disagreed with the 10% increase in the cohesion policy funds and who have evolved and changed their minds. as far as the eafrd is concerned, there are many people who did not agree with the increase, also with regard to co-financing, and who have also changed their minds. i am making a proposal not to all member states but to those member states which are in receipt of financial assistance. i do not know whether this proposal was general in the committee on employment or whether it was only for these member states, and therefore what i advocate, and i have been clear - and i hope that this plenary can also confirm it one day, because it is a matter of logic - as regards what has happened to cohesion policy, what has happened to the eafrd, it is logical that, even by a majority of reason, it will also be approved for workers. we know that the european globalisation adjustment fund is not a competitor to the european social fund but a complementary fund, and i therefore understand that it makes perfect sense for the countries receiving financial assistance to increase the share from 65% to 95%. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. what i said was that the european globalisation adjustment fund cannot be used as a political weapon and influenced by electoral calendars. i am sure that we are all, or should be, in agreement with this statement. today we have the opportunity to show by our vote, by the vote here in the house, whether that vote is influenced by electoral calendars or whether it is first and foremost about defending the workers. it is because in this particular renault case i have seen that it has been somewhat biased, and i suspect - but it is a suspicion which may be dispelled today, with the vote here - that political interest and the electoral calendar may be influencing the position of some members. but i hope that the vote, and a qualified majority is needed here today in the house, will show that we are defending the interests of the workers first.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national energy tariffs, the introduction of a new system of national energy tariffs, and the introduction of a new system of national energy tariffs. the promotion of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy are of crucial importance for economic growth and job creation in europe. the european union has been developing ambitious strategies and legislation in this area. however, all policies need strong instruments and linkages at regional and local level. this programme and its implementing agency have contributed significantly to the implementation of legislation in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, in particular through support for innovative projects. in particular, activities such as the covenant of mayors and the covenant of the islands should be continued and intensified. it is especially in times of crisis that programmes such as these are crucial for competitiveness and economic recovery. in this context, i would like to ask the commission the following: first, what does the commission intend to do to ensure a prominent place for the intelligent energy europe programme in the future multiannual budget for 2014-2020? secondly, how does the commission intend to improve the successor of this programme? thirdly, what is the institutional framework for the successor of this intelligent energy europe programme within horizon 2020 and what level of funding will be allocated to it?
if there is one way in which the european union can assert itself in the knowledge economy, it is by clearly supporting the production of energy from renewable sources. that will reduce our dependence on oil. the european union must be committed to this challenge by continuing to improve the incentives for such investments. for example, the azores archipelago, with a volcanic origin formation process, has exceptional geothermal potential. in this case, support for prospecting surveys is necessary because of the possibility of creating a renewable energy cluster. the island of são miguel, for example, already consumes about 50% of its electricity from geothermal energy. another example is the case of the island of flores, which at certain times of the year already has 100% hydroelectric power. graciosa is about to become the first island in the world to be powered by 100 percent renewable energy. this is the way forward and europe must take it up with conviction, supporting these praiseworthy projects of the model regions.
a writer. - madam president, i will be very brief, just a word of thanks to all the members who supported this declaration and in particular to the co-signatories. and also a word of thanks to the activists of plane, epf and the world scout association. the designation of an international day is a way to draw attention to the specific difficulties that female children face from birth. we now hope that the united nations general assembly will adopt this resolution on the 19th, that is to say on monday.
in writing. - i approve of this report, taking into account that aid to afghanistan must be maintained, but that its implementation must be monitored more efficiently, although i am fully aware of the difficulties of implementing aid in a conflict zone. this monitoring, as well as a better allocation of funds, which should be sectoral, is necessary, taking more specifically into account the reasons for the usefulness of all the support. monitoring the use of funds is extremely important, especially when we consider that many taliban movements often finance themselves through official channels.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it aims to promote greater oversight and accountability in the use of eu funds in afghanistan. the fraud and corruption that have taken root in that country affect the local public administration and it is therefore important to ensure that member states' aid will meet the objectives for which it is intended.
in writing. - afghanistan is historically a country where violence and instability are a constant. the fall of the pro-soviet najibullah regime to the hands of islamist guerrillas and the brutality of the taliban regime that followed plunged the country into yet another conflict from which it does not seem to be able to free itself despite the efforts of the international community, in particular the united states of america, to make it so. the news coming in about the progress in the fight against terrorism and the ability of the amid karzai government to ensure security, freedom and the rule of law on afghan soil is not the most encouraging. leaving afghanistan to its fate calls into question the security not only of the neighbouring states but of a large part of the international community. i believe that the european union should seek to help afghanistan in the ways it deems appropriate, to do so in such a way that aid reaches those who need it most and to have full access to information from the international bodies through which it channels part of it.
in writing. the civil war which has been slaughtering the afghan people has led the international community to intervene diplomatically and militarily in afghanistan to ensure the security of the population. in fact, the taliban rebels have not given up terrorism, as the attacks on nato headquarters and the us embassy, among others, prove. despite the efforts of the afghan government to stamp out terrorism, the reality is that the taliban rebels continue their offensive. the aim is for the afghan military to take control of the situation and replace the foreign military. until then, the eu, which supports more than 50% of external aid to afghanistan, must continue to have budgetary resources, not only to cover staff costs but also to finance all the projects it has in place in the country. the eu must therefore continue to help the afghan government to overcome this dramatic situation and to establish a full democracy, i.e. with respect for minorities, gender equality and the values enshrined in the international charter of human rights. i therefore vote in favour of this report on budgetary control of eu financial aid to afghanistan.
in writing. − we would like to highlight the criticisms made by the rapporteur regarding the supervision and accountability of the management of the eu funds. the report proposes measures to improve this situation, such as: diversifying aid 'to meet individual needs through the appropriate funding channel'; 'providing direct budget support to afghanistan'; 'civil society and members should be involved at every stage of implementation, monitoring and evaluation of results'; measures to combat corruption. the point is that this report does not condemn the occupation of afghanistan as it was supposed to do. the rapporteur even states that 'the withdrawal of troops could have a negative impact on the afghan economy'. we reiterate our opposition to the military occupation of afghanistan. we believe that the only way to peace in that region is through the immediate withdrawal of all occupying troops and respect for the independence and sovereignty of afghanistan.
in writing. − a transparent democracy requires a supreme audit institution which is fully independent of the executive in financial and operational terms. it is necessary to identify risk factors associated with corruption, fraud, project sustainability, subcontractors and other sources of waste or misuse of funds. it is imperative to increase transparency and accountability in the use of community funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its premises, namely that the commitment to sustainable and long-term development in afghanistan be maintained and that adequate resources be made available after 2014, when the responsibility for security will be fully vested in the afghan authorities and other donors can start to reduce their funding.
in writing. − this own-initiative report aims to analyse the way eu funds are controlled in afghanistan under the afghanistan strategy. in this way, the rapporteur uses the comparative method between the management of eu funds and us agencies to understand the flaws and shortcomings in the management of eu funds and, at the same time, to identify good practices. as mentioned in the report, there is no single approach to the type of funding model to be used, and this depends in part on the objectives to be achieved. the report stresses, however, that the eu should use direct funding from the afghan budget at ministerial level in this case, while also strengthening budgetary control to prevent fraud and corruption. finally, i would stress the importance of increased coordination between donor countries to increase the effectiveness of funding and to coordinate information on problems in project management with a view to improving aid operations.
in writing. - i welcome this report which demonstrates that european competition policy has brought benefits to european businesses and citizens. in any case, it is very important that greater price transparency be provided for the benefit of the consumer. i would also stress the need for state aid to be allocated as carefully as possible so as not to distort or make the market less transparent. finally, i believe that, in line with the report, better european coordination is needed to properly assess the atypical liquidity injections carried out by the ecb, since they have not been coordinated in the best possible way with state aid pursuing the same objective.
in writing. − the european union's competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare, and it remains an essential instrument for removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. competition policy remains essential to preserve the single market and protect consumers' interests. the crisis will require a renewed commitment to growth policies and to strengthening the eu's competitiveness at home and globally. the report, which i supported, makes recommendations on competition policy in the following areas: control of state aid (proposes a permanent system of regulation and the end of temporary measures as soon as the economic situation allows); control of mergers, even in times of crisis, as they can create serious problems in the future; encourages the european commission to participate in the international competition network. finally, it called on the european commission to present at the beginning of each year a work programme in the field of competition, including the binding and non-binding instruments on competition to be adopted during the following year, as well as the public consultations envisaged.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is balanced in the way it deals with state aid to enterprises and in the way it wants to regulate mergers and acquisitions of enterprises in the different sectors of the economy.
in writing. - the text under consideration, drawn up by andreas schwab, analyses the annual report on competition policy in the european union (eu) for 2010, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of that report. since the eu wants to see an effective and efficient single market, competition policy plays a key role in stimulating competition between firms and ensuring price transparency, which only benefits consumers. despite the progress made in its operation, there are still many areas to be improved, such as the control of state aid which distorts markets and is only acceptable in an initial situation as a response to the crisis, the fight against monopolies, transparency in the functioning of the banking sector, public procurement, the energy market, air transport, etc. it is also essential to move forward with the revision of the markets in financial instruments (mfi) and market abuse (mam) directives. i welcome the adoption of this report, which has shown that the eu's competition policy must continue and evolve, as it has improved the quality of life of europeans and facilitated the movement of people, goods and services.
in writing. − over the last few years, the european union has been facing a serious economic, financial and social crisis, and the european institutions have adopted different policies to address the problems. among the measures adopted, competition policy is highlighted as a key crisis management instrument, aimed at creating a more dynamic, effective and globally competitive internal market. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree that there should be greater transparency in the prices charged by companies, that specific measures should be taken to solve the banking crisis, that there should be more support for companies in the area of research and innovation and that mergers should be supervised. i welcome the need, highlighted in the report, to promote competition in all sectors and not just in the services sector, which represents 70% of the european economy.
in writing. - i support this report mainly because it is necessary to support the thousands of workers made redundant as a result of renault's insolvency, but i cannot help but regret the excessive time this application process has taken. i would like to take this opportunity to stress that it is very important that this programme be maintained in the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the eu will always have a duty to monitor these situations, defending the european social model in order to protect companies and workers who are vulnerable to various situations, in line with the criteria already covered in the current framework and seeking to further broaden its scope of action.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with this serious crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 24 493 525 from the egf for france to support workers made redundant by renault s.a.s. and seven of its suppliers.
in writing. - although i regret the events which led to this procedure by renault and seven of its suppliers, i was pleased to see this mobilisation of the egf, amounting to some eur 24.5 million, following two votes in the committee on budgets, the first of which rejected the application. this first rejection was supported by the socialists in the s&d group and the parliamentary groups of the ecr and the nra. the socialist members in particular have used this procedure as a weapon against the french government. it seems to me that it is not at all right to make a political joke about the unemployment of a few thousand workers. in addition, the precedent of using the egf for purposes other than its specific purpose seems to me to be quite objectionable. i now hope that this sum will be mobilised as soon as possible, as requested by the rapporteur.
in writing. - renault, the flagship company in the european automotive sector, laid off 4,445 workers. the company's problems have also affected seven of its suppliers, who are now in serious difficulties. this makes even more evident the worrying situation that the european economy is going through and how it affects businesses and households. i hope that the european car industry can regain its former role on the world stage and that its leading brands can survive the crisis that affects us all. i hope that the mobilisation of the fund can be approved so that workers who can benefit from it can be reached quickly and that this additional aid can help them to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. − in july 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), set up in 2006 to support workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, for the benefit of france. this is the 13th application for 2011 and provides for the mobilisation of eur 24 493 525 to alleviate the social impact of the redundancies of 4445 workers in seven companies in the automotive sector (application egf/2009/019 fr/renault-france). the complexity of implementing the fund and its low maximum rate of co-financing (65%) have led to a very low level of resources being used, with only 14% (eur 370 million) of the total available amount being used in five years. i welcome the adoption of this proposal for a decision, which i voted in favour of, and i urge the commission and the council to submit to this parliament a proposal to increase the maximum rate of egf co-financing from 65% to 95% for member states in the financial assistance process, such as portugal and greece, as recently approved by the ep for the cohesion funds and the eafrd.
in writing. - my vote, in this case renault, was mainly a vote of protest against the action of the epp, which prevented the vote on an amendment by the liberal group demanding that the rights of renault workers should not be called into question by recent decisions of the french government. it should also be recalled that renault made profits of millions of euros and that the french state is one of the shareholders of this company. but as i said in the plenary, in the renault case, we must first of all express our solidarity with the approximately 5000 workers who have been made redundant. on the other hand, we regret the confusion created by france in the egf application process, its lack of dialogue with the representatives of its workers and its lack of transparency as regards the progress of the process, as has been pointed out by several french meps, including those from our group. we maintain our position of solidarity with the workers and support the mobilisation of this fund whenever there is transparency in the process, despite the criticisms we also continue to make of its regulation.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu member states and this aid is now to be granted to france, which has submitted a request for assistance in relation to a case of 4,445 redundancies, of which 3,582 were potential beneficiaries, in renault s.a.s. and seven of its automotive suppliers.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. on 11 july 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 13th application to be examined under the 2011 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 24 493 525 from the egf for france, based on the redundancies of 4445 out of 3,582 requiring assistance, in the french company renault and in seven of its suppliers, during the four-month reference period from 1 april 2009 to 31 july 2009. since all the necessary conditions for the activation of this financial assistance mechanism have been met, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the mobilisation of the egf in the renault case. training for workers has already been carried out and financed by the french state and by renault itself. in this case, it was a matter of reimbursing the french state and renault, which should not have been done. renault declared profits of eur 1,2 billion in the first half of 2011, continues to insist on its plans to reduce staff and replaces permanent contracts with precarious contracts. worse, it does all this with the complicity of the french state, at the expense of european taxpayers' money. on the other hand, this fund has been attacked by some of the member states which have benefited most from it, including germany, the netherlands, sweden, denmark and the united kingdom. the egf is one of the few union instruments to help workers reintegrate in the context of the current socioeconomic and financial crisis, by providing training programmes tailored to each worker. allowing the use of this fund to be misused so that large european multinationals can carry out restructuring without regard to the social costs of such restructuring is another way of putting an end to this fund.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. following the redundancies of 3,582 workers at renault and seven of its suppliers in the french regions of île-de-france (53%), haute-normandie (29,5%) and nord-pas-de-calais (12,5%), france requested the mobilisation of the egf in order to obtain european funding to support the employment situation of the workers concerned. i agree with the requested amount of eur 24 493 525, which will be channelled to provide individual, one-off and temporary support to workers made redundant as a result of the effects of globalisation and the economic and financial crisis. finally, i believe that the european institutions should make every effort to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements for the egf, by making the fund available quickly and efficiently to workers.
in writing. - i approve this report. firstly, because the treaty of lisbon requires the commission to do everything possible to make the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union operate more transparently. i also think that we should take this opportunity to try to make this regulation the only legal framework for public access to all documents handled by the eu institutions, bodies, offices or agencies, without forgetting that the end users are the citizens. it is our duty and obligation to make access as easy as possible from the user's point of view. in addition, it is necessary to take this opportunity to try to arrange the different provisions in a more coherent and reasonable way so that the institutions can work together to define common standards and guidelines for the treatment of the different types of documents.
in writing. − the openness provided by the lisbon treaty should be used to convey to citizens the message that the eu institutions, bodies and agencies are ready to raise the union's transparency to the level required by the new treaty. only with greater transparency of european legislation and decision-making mechanisms will we be able to bring the eu closer to its citizens, reinforcing the democratic legitimacy of the political system. the adoption of this regulation will make public access to documents handled by the eu institutions, bodies and agencies easier, giving the opportunity to order the different existing provisions in a more coherent and reasonable way, with a view to making the european decision-making process more understandable. unfortunately, no agreement has yet been reached, with differences ranging from the definition of documents, to the extent of exceptions to access to documents, to the protection of personal data and the handling of classified documents. however, this institutional impasse gives a very negative image of the eu and its institutions, and i therefore call on both co-legislators to show signs of greater openness and commitment to the benefit of citizens and to safeguard their fundamental right to access documents and to participate in the political process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it promotes greater transparency in the legislative and administrative process of the institutions.
in writing. − the openness of the european institutions and the clarity of their procedures ensure that civil society and public opinion in the member states are not only informed but are an integral and informed part of their decision-making process. despite the relative distance between the populations, enhanced by the troubled and not always clear and uncritical process that led to the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european institutions must persist and make a real effort to make as many documents as possible available in a timely manner, thus helping to reduce that gap. i cannot, however, but regret that the necessary improvement in the legal framework for access to documents has been used to disregard, in a populist way, the real need for confidentiality of certain procedures, documents and information. so in an agreement of the whole parliamentary left which excluded the epp, a view is enshrined which goes far beyond the normal public access to the documents of the institutions, with which i cannot agree.
in writing. - we can say that transparency is the essence of democracy and that it should be at its service. the european union (eu), as an example of how democracy works, felt the need to show citizens that it had nothing to hide and so ten years ago it adopted its first transparency regulation. the report by mr michael cashman deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament, the council and the commission on public access to eu institutions' documents. access to information and documents from public bodies - even if it can sometimes be embarrassing - is a fundamental right of citizens and should be treated as such. however, a certain degree of confidentiality is necessary in certain matters, both for personal and copyright reasons and to prevent misuse by those who may have privileged access to certain information. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there should be transparency in all decisions of public bodies, provided that the exceptions are safeguarded, as they appear to be: documents classified as confidential and those relating to private life under the statute for members and officials.
in writing. − citizens should be guaranteed access to all documents handled by the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union as easily as possible from the user's point of view. information and knowledge of what is dealt with and decided in these instances can be quite important so that people know who decided and what decided on the areas that will invariably have a direct implication on their lives. this report, although it still has a lot of room for improvement, is a positive step towards increasing the transparency of the eu institutions. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i think it goes too far in terms of legislative transparency. i cannot agree that relevant and confidential documents can be made available on the internet without any control. public access to european parliament, council and commission documents is important but should not be generalised, and there should be a right of reservation where sensitive documentation is concerned and in such cases its unrestricted access should be assessed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the objectives of increasing the transparency of the regulation, without making it too specific and difficult to apply, and of improving the practices of the institutions by drawing on past experience. public access to european parliament, council and commission documents can be a means of ensuring transparency in european decision-making.
in writing. − this report seeks greater transparency in public access to documents of all the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, as expressed in article 255 of the treaty of lisbon. however, this proposal goes beyond its initial objective and regulates undue matters. in addition to violating existing interinstitutional agreements and competition procedures, it also affects personal information and information considered to be sensitive. the general definition of the concept of a document also includes preparatory, confidential and classified documents and the negotiating initiatives themselves, in particular informal trilogues. what will happen is that citizens will have access to negotiations and procedures that may call into question the final conclusions due to public influence. for these reasons, i am voting against this report, because transparency and access to eu documents must not override the protection of privacy, data protection and the protection of trade secrets and sensitive information in judicial and competition terms.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that there is room to expand the activities of the emsa so that its expertise and technical services can be applied to a wider range of policies. more specifically, its traffic control systems could contribute to the creation of a european maritime area without barriers, thus making it possible to transport goods and passengers by sea between member states without any more formalities than those applied to road transport. this would avoid a distortion of competition in favour of the less environmentally friendly mode. to the same end, esma may advise the commission on how to enhance the mutual compatibility of safeseanet and the river information system in order to reduce administrative costs.
in writing. − emsa, which provides technical support and assistance on maritime safety and security in the area of pollution caused by ships, has been increasingly important in the defence of the marine environment. i am glad that this report reinforces the points i have been advocating and which have already been adopted by this house in the ford report. these are: prevention and response mechanisms in the event of environmental disasters related to oil and gas exploration platforms. in the current economic and financial crisis, and in the spirit of economies of scale, it makes perfect sense to use existing infrastructure and expand the agency's remit. i stress the need for coordination at eu level and with neighbouring countries to ensure best practice and harmonisation of the various approaches in the various regions of the eu both at accident prevention and response level. only a global approach will make the oil and gas sector safer and cope with the environmental, economic and social damage caused by any accidents on the high seas.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa), based in lisbon, has been emerging as one of the main institutional players in the european/international maritime sector. following the adoption of the third maritime package, the need to extend the scope of the action of esma, its powers, tasks and mission has arisen. in this respect, i believe that the present tran report goes against the objectives already identified for the realisation of the future european maritime area without barriers to be achieved: better assistance to member states in the event of pollution from gas or oil platforms by including assistance to our neighbouring countries in reducing marine pollution or in the event of disaster, as well as the introduction of new procedures to improve the governance of the agency. i would like to stress the important signal given to our neighbours in the week in which we also voted on my report on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy. this report envisages more europe, greater efficiency in its operation and a new role for our union in the geographical area where we are integrated. and all this from the city of lisbon. it is for all these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that this agency has made an important contribution to the protection of the environment by limiting the number of maritime accidents and the damage they cause. in this respect, i welcome the fact that the mandate and resources of this institution are being strengthened.
in writing. − the emsa was set up in 2003 in response to the erika oil tanker disaster and the environmental contingencies it created. since then, its mission has been focused on disaster prevention at sea and maritime safety. it now intends to extend its activities to 'create a european maritime area without barriers' by making it possible to transport goods and passengers by sea between member states without any more formalities than those applied to road transport. i believe that this task is essential in the economic climate europe is currently experiencing, since the sea can create important business and trade opportunities which can and must be encouraged.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was established by regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 of the european parliament (ep) and of the council to respond to the problem created by the sinking of the oil tanker erika on 12 december 1999, which released 15,000 tonnes of fuel oil and polluted 450 km of the coast of brittany. the mission of the agency is to provide technical assistance and support for maritime protection in situations of pollution caused by ships, and therefore it plays a crucial role in the protection of the marine environment. both ocean protection and the creation of pollution control or control mechanisms must be seen on a global scale in order to save resources and streamline procedures. in the light of the experience of the emsa, it is necessary to extend its powers and to provide it with the means to strengthen the fight against pollution and piracy, as well as the support and surveillance of fishing and transport vessels. i welcome the adoption of this proposal which will extend the powers of the emsa, thereby contributing to our enjoyment of a healthier, more protected and more capable aquatic environment for the survival of future generations.
in writing. − as a purported response to the erika oil tanker accident, the european maritime safety agency was set up in 2003. based on legitimate environmental concerns, this agency imposes itself on a large scale on national authorities and jurisdictions, imbued with the federalist and centralist spirit of the eu, trampling on the sovereignty of member states in their maritime strategies, especially those with important exclusive economic zones, such as portugal, the eu country with the largest maritime area. we are very concerned about the insistence on the creation of the so-called european coast guard, because of its security, control and surveillance character, aspects of the sovereignty of the member states which, through the national authorities, ensure this control, surveillance and exploitation of their eezs. the report calls for the creation of a 'european maritime area without barriers' with a 'european integrated maritime policy', a 'european coastguard', satellite surveillance at european level and automatic identification systems. in the end, the initial, legitimate environmental concerns are dissolved into exaggerated supranational instruments and policies, usurping responsibilities and powers which belong only to each member state, including its strategies and policies of cooperation with the other countries of the union and third countries.
in writing. − the erika (1999) and prestige (2002) shipwrecks prompted the european union to strengthen maritime safety through a number of legislative measures. it is in this context that the european maritime safety agency was set up to assist the commission and the member states in matters of maritime safety, the protection of maritime transport and the prevention of pollution caused by ships. i voted in favour of the text proposed to amend the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency. the amendments will allow for greater efficiency gains and lower costs, taking an important step towards an ambitious european maritime policy and developing rapid response tools to prevent damage caused by maritime disasters that can have very serious environmental and economic consequences.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency is an organisation recognised by all as effective and functional, and offers member states considerable savings by operating at european level with the economies of scale it generates. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the amendment to the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency aims to extend the powers of this european agency which has demonstrated its technical capacity. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the marine environment against pollution caused by nitrates from the production of certain products. in order to maintain its performance, this adjustment should be accompanied, where necessary, by a reallocation of staff and funding. this report is of the utmost importance at a time when the eu is investing in its maritime sector to strengthen the so-called blue economy in the face of the economic crisis we are experiencing. the endless riches of marine resources are global. a catastrophe in the north atlantic will have devastating effects throughout the atlantic. the response and cooperation with third countries is therefore essential. cooperation between european agencies and european institutions is very important, as the former have technical expertise essential for the development of european sectoral policies.
in writing. - i support this report, as independent investigations into the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms by the syrian government are urgently needed and, in order for this to happen, it is necessary for the country to host members of international organisations. in this area, the eu should take a leading role in a series of actions to help put the country on the path towards democracy and respect for human rights. we must demand now that syria open its borders to syrian refugees who have been persecuted and intimidated by the government.
in writing. - the baath regime of bashar al-assad is virtually isolated on the international scene, showing the first signs of disintegration and having already been condemned by the united nations, the arab league, the european union and the united states of america, among others. on the day we award the 2011 sakharov prize to five protagonists of the arab spring, two of whom are syrians, it is time to remember the populations that have been victims of the crimes of the police and military forces in the service of the regime - the un says 5,000 dead already - and to wish that the international community can keep up the pressure on him, so as to contribute to an effective change in syria. despite the recent promises made by assad of a new constitution, free elections and freedom of association and association, the reality is that so far these have been nothing but empty statements, which is regrettable. it is up to the european union to support the efforts of the moderates who are leading the desire for change in syria and to work towards making possible the realization of the dream of the arab spring which this house is celebrating today.
in writing. - the social and political upheavals for the establishment of democratic regimes in some countries of the southern mediterranean, known as the arab spring, have also reached syria. however, president bashar al-assad and his regime, despite all the condemnations to which they have been subjected by the eu and various international institutions, notably the league of arab states, insist on riding a totalitarian regime that does not respect human rights in the slightest. in fact, there are reports of persecution of doctors simply for helping the victims of the regime, of denial of access to detainees and of humanitarian aid to the population whose situation is worsening due to cuts in electricity and water supplies. the brutal repression of thousands of civilians is triggering an arms race. there is a fear of civil war and the massacre of the population. it is therefore urgent that the syrian regime end the violence and accept the establishment of a single platform, with the participation of the regime's opponents, to prepare the transition to democracy. i therefore vote in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, express my solidarity with the syrian people and support all the measures decided upon in the un.
in writing. - this resolution is part of a pattern of repetition of the process which led to nato's intervention in libya. the pressures and manipulations in this report are evidence of this. by openly supporting interference and violations of international law, the majority of this parliament is trying to shape reality to suit the ambitions of nato and its major powers. citing the "failure of the syrian government to assume its responsibility to protect the population", they seek to create the conditions to impose the "opening of humanitarian corridors" - well-known vocabulary of other military aggressions (from the balkans to libya), which means military intervention. it is not by chance that the demonstrations in syria in defence of the sovereignty of the syrian people, the territorial integrity of the country and its refusal of any external intervention are hidden. a military escalation in syria carries the danger of destabilizing the whole region. the situation is complex and the road, this time, has more obstacles to the realization of the ambitions of imperialism. russia and china seem unwilling to repeat the adoption in the un security council of a resolution paving the way for military intervention, as they did with libya. we obviously voted against this resolution.
in writing. - we are facing a repetition of the manipulation and pressure that led to nato's intervention in libya. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. citing the "failure of the syrian government to assume its responsibility to protect the population", they seek to create the conditions to impose the "opening of humanitarian corridors" on the syrian-turkish border, which can only be done through military intervention. implicitly support the free syrian army and the use of internal confrontation to trigger a civil war. and they hide that among the demonstrations held in syria, almost all have in common the defense of the sovereignty of the syrian people, the territorial integrity of the country and the refusal of any external intervention, regardless of the changes they seek. a military escalation in syria carries the danger of destabilizing the whole region. the situation is complex and the road is full of obstacles to the ambitions of imperialism. russia and china seem unwilling to repeat what they did to libya at the un security council.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the violent repression and serious human rights violations by the syrian authorities and military and security forces against peaceful civilians continue to intensify, and that several towns and cities remain under siege by government forces, with no access to food, medicine or communications, i reiterate my condemnation of the brutal repression by the syrian regime and call for all efforts to be made to make a democratic transition in the country possible. the regime is losing all credibility, and the situation is a threat to the security and stability of the entire middle east region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the call for a peaceful and genuine transition to democracy, which meets the legitimate demands of the syrian people and is based on an inclusive process of political dialogue at national level with the participation of all democratic political forces and civil society organisations in the country.
in writing. − since march 2011, the unrest in syria, led by the authorities of the bashar al-assad regime, has led to numerous attacks against the syrian people, including executions, unjustified arrests and countless deaths and injuries. the siege of numerous cities has left populations without access to food, healthcare and communications. despite eu sanctions and international calls for an end to the massacres, the syrian authorities have ignored these repeated appeals. the refusal of china and russia, as full members of the un security council, to apply sanctions demonstrates that the multilateralism of this international organization blocks key measures for world stability. on the other hand, i welcome the efforts of the arab league to demystify the actions of the syrian national authorities. this continuing trampling on human rights must be stopped. the eu must speak with one voice and urge its international partners to cooperate to bring an end to the atrocities committed by the syrian authorities.
in writing. - i approve this report because the present situation calls for the immediate implementation of this assessment panel which should prevent and correct excessive imbalances in the european union and, in particular, in the euro area. moreover, with the entry into force of regulation (eu) no 1176/2011, the new mechanism also has objectives which i consider very important, namely: a sustained convergence of the behaviour of the economies of the member states and a closer coordination of economic policies. however, i would reiterate my position that the european union as a whole must have a plan for economic development and that intergovernmental cooperation alone is not enough to overcome the present crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions because i believe that they could contribute, in the context of the legislative package on economic governance of 16 november 2011, to a better articulation and coordination of member states' macroeconomic policies. i also think that the proposals are positive because they meet the need for a more complete analysis of the economic situation in each member state.
in writing. − included in the economic governance package is the new mechanism for detecting and correcting potential macroeconomic imbalances in the european union and in particular in the euro area. also included in the economic governance package is a statement by the european commission in which it commits itself to monitoring and accompanying both deficit and surplus countries in the same way. indeed, as the european parliament argued when it adopted the package, it is important to monitor the situation in all member states equally because the interconnection is so close that possible deviations in certain member states may originate from measures implemented in another member state. a union-wide macroeconomic framework is therefore essential to enable problems to be correctly identified and solutions to be applied. finally, given the importance of this new mechanism, parliament called on the commission to develop the scoreboard further and to make some indicators more explicit, in order to ensure transparent implementation.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has forced the eu to analyse national accounts in detail to identify the source of macroeconomic imbalances. on 16 november 2011, regulation (eu) no 1176/2011 of the european parliament and of the council aiming to prevent and correct possible budgetary irregularities was adopted as part of a set of rules on economic governance. this motion for a resolution follows the question for an oral answer under rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure and is based on the document drawn up by the commission services entitled 'assessment panel on the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances: initial draft'. in order to prevent further financial slippages in some member states, which could lead to a new crisis, and in the six-pack proposals as a whole, there will be macroeconomic surveillance with a focus on countries with current account deficits or surpluses. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that there must be rigour in the management of public money so that the markets, especially the financial markets, can regain the lost confidence and so that the eu can finally take the lead in terms of economic growth and job creation towards the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the newly established supervisory mechanism aims to prevent and correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances in the european union and in particular in the euro area. in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1176/2011, the new mechanism also aims at a sustained convergence of the behaviour of the economies of the member states and a closer coordination of economic policies. therefore, and in view of the current economic situation, it is essential that the macroeconomic surveillance framework is operational as soon as possible. i believe that the potential indirect effects of member states' and the union's policies should be identified and discussed at an early stage (e.g. at the time of the annual growth survey) and, in any case, both before and after the adoption of convergence/stability programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on the draft assessment panel for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. i agree with the statement that future macroeconomic scoreboards should include a wider range of indicators based on official, independent and verifiable statistics produced by the european statistical system and the european system of central banks.
in writing. − the panel of indicators presented by the commission is a constituent part of the economic governance package approved by the european parliament in september 2011 and confirmed by the last european council. the regulation empowered the commission to present the panel of indicators on macroeconomic imbalances of member states which, in the event of a deviation, are subject to an excessive imbalance procedure. this procedure is based on an unacceptable punitive logic. in this case, it is all the more unfair because trade deficits are penalized, but not surpluses, which can be as harmful to the overall economic interests of the union as the former. the indicator panel is still missing such important aspects as poverty levels. in fact, all this is because the commission has put parliament before a fait accompli instead of seeking to engage in dialogue to achieve a more balanced set of indicators. for these reasons i voted against this resolution.
in writing. - i welcome this resolution, as it establishes the new supervisory mechanism as responsible for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances in the european union and, in particular, in the euro area. as i said when the reports on economic governance were adopted, i believe that there should be greater coordination and economic convergence between the member states, and that budgetary disparities and excessive deficits which are harmful to the european union should be eliminated. i also believe it is essential that the member states are prepared to deal with the real problems of their accounts and should hold public hearings with a view to achieving a better institutional design of the new supervisory framework.
in writing. - i approve this report because transport plays an important role in the cohesion of cities and regions. i therefore stress the need to apply fully the principle of territorial cohesion established by the treaty of lisbon, so that the most remote and isolated regions are not treated as second-class regions. in order to have a single transport area, it is important to ensure that those who suffer most from distance are not forgotten, but are targeted by european public policies that benefit their connection with the rest of the european continent and thus contribute to their convergence at european level. in this respect, i would stress the need for special attention to be paid to the outermost regions. the creation of a single european transport area as an objective of the future european transport policy is therefore intrinsically linked to regional, environmental, economic, social and employment policy. i have no doubt that because of this link, the transport sector can even make an important contribution to the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it contributes to the improvement of the quality and safety of european transport by promoting coherent and concrete targets to achieve these objectives. i would also stress the importance attached to environmental issues through the decarbonisation of this sector and through a clear commitment to research and the development of intelligent management systems for all modes of transport.
in writing. the report under review, by mathieu grosh, is based on the european commission's white paper, adopted in march 2001, entitled roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system. we all know that mobility is essential for the functioning of societies, in particular for a competitive economy and for the freedom of citizens. over the last few years, road transport has been given priority over rail. now, in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, we must take into account fundamental aspects such as road safety in order to reduce the number of deaths and injuries, environmental protection (with a halving of co2 emissions), green energy sources and economic sustainability. we are talking about over ten million jobs and about 5% of gdp. as i am in favour of the creation of a single european transport area, i voted in favour of this report and hope that the implementation of the new instruments will improve all transport, particularly in the peripheral regions of the eu, and give a new impetus to the transeuropean network and rail proposals.
in writing. - the liberalization of the transport sector and the consequent privatisation of everything that generates profit under the (never verified) assumptions of improved service quality, better prices and more jobs has, on the contrary, led to losses for users, workers and national economies. this european transport policy may serve the interests of certain economic and multinational groups seeking a transport network to suit their needs. the german multinational db, which now controls more than 60% of the rail freight sector, is an illustrative example. but it will certainly not serve the interests of workers and the population, of smes, who see transport costs rising and quality declining as the liberalization advocated here progresses. the roadmap for the single european transport area is developing around the creation of a european internal transport market through the opening up of networks and markets, including the so-called single european sky and the european emission allowance trading. in this context, the most urgent calls for the commission to certify the absence of social dumping, the deterioration of the quality of services and of monopolies and oligopolies are of no avail. we obviously voted against this report.
in writing. - once again, the proposal to liberalize the transport sector has come to fruition. the resulting privatization of everything that generates profit, under the (never verified) assumptions of improved quality of service, better prices and more jobs, has, on the contrary, led to losses for users, workers and national economies. this european transport policy may serve the interests of certain economic and multinational groups seeking a transport network to suit their needs. the german multinational db, which now controls more than 60% of the rail freight sector, is an illustrative example. but it will certainly not serve the interests of workers and the general public, nor of smes, which see transport costs rise and quality fall as the liberalization advocated here progresses. the roadmap for the single european transport area is developing around the creation of a european internal transport market through the opening up of networks and markets, including the so-called single european sky and the european emission allowance trading. in this context, the most urgent calls for the commission to certify the absence of social dumping, the deterioration of the quality of services and of monopolies and oligopolies are of no avail. we voted against this report.
in writing. − transport is of great importance to eu citizens, who benefit from the european transport area, as it allows them to move in all situations of life and thus enjoy the freedom of movement in europe both at home and at work. in addition, passenger and freight transport provides jobs for many eu citizens and contributes to the completion of the european internal market. this is why calls for proposals to facilitate the creation of a truly integrated european transport market are of particular importance.
in writing. − transport is an important factor for cities and regions because it not only ensures the connection between them but also contributes to consolidating the position of the european union as a place of research and innovation and is therefore a fundamental element of the development of the eu and its regions, with a direct influence on the social cohesion of the regions. the creation of a single european transport area, as the objective of the future european transport policy, is therefore intrinsically linked to regional, environmental, economic, social and employment policy. due to this link, the transport sector can make an important contribution to the europe 2020 strategy. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the transport white paper, horizon 2050, sets out a strategic policy for all modes of transport under two premises: sustainability and efficiency. the achievement of the objectives set shall be reviewed annually in order to understand in advance possible shortcomings and to adapt the measures to the reality of each member state. the transport sector is an area which interacts with all european policies. the completion of the single market and the free movement of people and goods will only be fully achieved if there is a network of transport infrastructure and services. however, the strategy to be followed should take account of the different realities of the member states and of the european regions themselves. the choice of transport modes must therefore take account of the particular features of each region. the outermost regions, given their geographical and morphological characteristics, are far from the european internal market. the focus on maritime transport and regional airports is central to their full integration. the instruments of the transeuropean networks must also be coordinated with the regional policy funds in order to make it possible to develop the key infrastructures for increasing the competitiveness of european regions and reducing existing disparities.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that poor detention conditions or the risk that they do not meet the minimum standards required by the european prison rules approved by the council of europe may constitute an obstacle to the transfer of prisoners. in a developed europe that respects human rights, we cannot allow this to happen, and to prevent this from happening, the member states must restructure, modernise and improve the quality of their prisons and the conditions of the police officers working there, in particular through training.
in writing. − judicial cooperation in criminal matters should be guided by mutual trust between member states based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. while conditions of detention and the management of prisons remain the primary responsibility of the member states, mutual trust can only be maintained if standards of fundamental rights standards are respected and efforts are made to approximate the rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings. there are huge differences between member states in terms of detention conditions (overcrowded prisons, high numbers of detainees in pre-trial detention, inhuman and degrading treatment, number of deaths and suicides, etc.). in some cases, they are even below the acceptable threshold, putting at risk not only judicial cooperation in criminal matters at eu level, but also raising concerns in terms of the protection of fundamental rights. this has a negative impact on mutual trust between member states, leading to the reluctance or even refusal by the judicial authority of one member state to enforce a decision taken in another member state. i hope that the commission will soon come forward with an initiative on the establishment of common minimum standards and i call on the member states to take urgent action to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners are respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motions for resolutions in so far as the poor conditions of detention in many member states make it urgent for the eu to define a set of fundamental rights for detainees as well as common criteria to limit the abuse of preventive detention and provide alternatives to it.
in writing. − a political community which makes democracy, freedom and human rights its core values cannot fail to seek to ascertain the conditions in which those who have potentially committed crimes are detained and to assess whether they live up to the standards of humanity it has set. the rapporteur listed several reasons for concern: prison overcrowding, the increase in the prison population, the increase in foreign prisoners, the high number of detainees in pre-trial detention, prisoners suffering from mental and psychological disorders and the number of deaths and suicides in prisons. i share them and i hope that the member states can respond to them with concrete measures that will effectively reduce them. despite these circumstances, it must be said that the member states of the european union have some of the best legal systems and prison systems in the world. the dissatisfaction with the status quo and the public expression of it is proof of this and of the transparency with which this matter is dealt with internally. the serious problems we are facing and the specific abuses we are lamenting and condemning should not prevent us from saying that the european union is a model for most countries to follow also in terms of conditions of detention.
in writing. − conditions of detention in the european union (eu) vary from one member state (eu) to another, and in some of them these conditions violate the eu charter of fundamental rights (cdf), namely article 1: the dignity of the human being is inviolable. it must be respected and protected. these violations are due to prison overcrowding, abuse of pretrial detention, the increase in the number of foreign detainees, detainees suffering from mental and psychological disorders and the number of deaths and suicides in prisons. this motion for a resolution follows a number of questions with requests for oral answers from members of various groups, pursuant to rule 115 (5), and is based on the commission green paper entitled 'strengthening mutual trust in the european judicial area - green paper on the application of eu criminal law in the field of detention'. the absence of a european dimension in prisons means that improved conditions of detention, family visits, imprisonment and rehabilitation of minors, etc., are needed. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because i hope it will help to improve conditions of detention in the member states with full respect for the fundamental rights of persons in detention.
in writing. - we know that the social reintegration of prisoners is an essential task of the state, and this will be all the more effective the better conditions of dignity are guaranteed for them, whether in terms of logistics, training or the conditions of hygiene, health and safety themselves. we consider that ensuring these conditions is fundamental to the reintegration of people into society and we draw attention to the fact (not mentioned in the report) that only a public management of the prison system can guarantee this, as opposed to private management which, as is clear in the cases of the usa and israel (for example), puts the interest of profit, and even political, above the interest of the people. the green paper on the application of eu criminal law in the field of detention, presented by the commission in june, sets out an alarming picture of prison overcrowding, the increase in foreign detainees, the high number of detainees in pre-trial detention, detainees suffering from mental and psychological disorders and the number of deaths and suicides. however, conditions of detention must be in conformity with human dignity and the rights of suspects or accused persons must be guaranteed, including the right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment.
in writing. − the european union's main objective is to create an area of freedom, security and justice, while respecting, in accordance with article 6 teu, human rights and fundamental freedoms. the necessary approximation of the rights of suspects and accused persons and of procedural rights in criminal proceedings, which is a fundamental aspect of ensuring mutual trust between the member states in the area of freedom, security and justice, does not exhaust the objective pursued by the union. decent conditions of detention and access to pre-reintegration facilities should be created to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners, in particular the rights of vulnerable persons, are respected and protected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on conditions of detention in the eu, which sets out its concerns and stresses the importance of ensuring respect for fundamental rights, in particular the rights of defence and access to a lawyer, and of ensuring that the rights of suspects or accused persons are respected, including the right not to be subjected to inhuman or degrading treatment. in this context, the importance of the commission's proposal on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the right of communication after detention is recalled.
in writing. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 june on the situation in the european union, calls on the member states to ensure that the fundamental rights of prisoners, in particular the rights of the most vulnerable, are respected and protected. the document considers that there should be a common minimum standard for detention conditions in the european union that should be applied in all member states. parliament also welcomes the european commission's communication of 14 june 2011 entitled 'strengthening mutual trust in the european judicial area - green paper on the application of eu criminal law in the field of detention'.
in writing. - i support this report because we cannot turn a blind eye to the large-scale use of child labour in this country. the international organizations have recognized the continuing disregard for human rights in that country. if the european union is to be a bulwark in the defence of fair trade and human rights, it must of course make any kind of partnership agreement with uzbekistan unfeasible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the european union should not ignore, in its trade relations and in particular in the cotton sector, the continued use of child labour in uzbekistan. in this sense, i believe that the eu can and should use its trade relations and cooperation protocols to make a genuine and universal defence of human rights.
in writing. - the reports of widespread child labour in uzbekistan, particularly in the cotton harvest, are worrying. this constitutes a violation of the rights of the children involved and of the international labour rules to which that country is a party. european industries, including textiles, cannot compete with those who violate the most basic rules in this way. i support the decision of parliament to consider giving its consent only if the uzbek authorities allow ilo observers access to monitor the situation closely and unhindered and confirm that tangible reforms have been put in place. i agree with the suspension of privileged relations with uzbekistan if the ilo proves the widespread nature of these practices and the union evaluates the possibility of creating an effective traceability mechanism for goods produced through the use of forced child labour.
in writing. the report under review focuses on the partnership and cooperation agreement (acp) between the european union and uzbekistan on bilateral trade in textile products. the current acp-eu agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, does not include trade in textile products which were covered by a bilateral agreement which expired in 2005. a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement is currently being finalised, which aims to include bilateral trade in textile products. when establishing agreements and partnerships, the eu has included binding clauses on respect for democracy, the principles of international law and human rights (article 2 of the acp-uzbekistan agreement). as the eu is the main importer of uzbekistan's cotton (up to 23%) it is essential that it uses all means to bring this country on the path of democracy and to abandon inhumane practices such as the exploitation of child labour. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution and hope that the children of uzbekistan will soon be able to devote themselves exclusively to their studies and will no longer be forced to work in the cotton fields.
in writing. the aim of this report is to approve the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement on textiles. the rapporteur, however, raises obstacles to the conclusion of this agreement because of issues relating to human rights, democratisation and the rule of law. we consider unacceptable the demands of the european union to the uzbek government to carry out market-oriented reforms in the uzbek agricultural sector; to propose eu assistance in the long-term transition towards privatisation and liberalisation of the sector, seeking to interfere in the internal affairs of a country and openly taking sides with the forces that safeguard the interests of eu economic groups. we also follow the concerns about the issue of forced labour and forced labour among children. we believe that the international labour organization, with the authorization of the government of uzbekistan, should be responsible for investigating this situation and helping to achieve the goal of eradicating child and forced labour. the central question here is to defend the independence and sovereignty of this country and the will expressed by its people.
in writing. - there is every interest in making this agreement a reality. however, we must not forget that serious human rights violations and the use of child labour still exist in uzbekistan. i therefore agree with the position of the european parliament, which will only consider giving its approval to this agreement if the uzbek authorities allow access to the observers of the ilo (international labour organisation) so that they can monitor the situation closely and unhindered and confirm that tangible reforms have been put in place, bringing substantial results and capable of demonstrating that the practice of forced labour and child labour is indeed being eradicated at national, regional and local level.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security forces are fully involved in the fight against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - the report seeks to include in the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement a protocol on textile products and thus to bring the most favoured nation clause as established by the wto and the abolition of quantitative restrictions within this framework. however, and in view of the numerous allegations by ngos and international organisations of child labour in cotton production, parliament should only give its consent if the uzbek authorities allow monitoring of these allegations by the world labour organisation. i therefore vote in favour of this draft interim report on the textiles protocol, and i look forward to the commission opening a dialogue with the authorities, taking account of human rights in the common commercial policy.
in writing. − it is noted that more and more citizens move and live in a member state other than their state of origin, but there are still barriers to the free movement of persons, in particular with the transitory restrictions at the borders of the member states. if we want a union of solidarity and respect for free movement, this must not appear possible.
in writing. − in the current economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all rules allowing greater mobility of professionals is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery. moreover, the free movement of workers within the eu is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in our founding treaties. without it, the european union will no longer be what we want it to be: a single market in which there is effective free movement.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution, tabled by several parliamentary groups, arises because some member states, due to political pressure, have placed restrictions on the entry of workers from romania and bulgaria, contrary to the maxim that the european union is an area of free movement of people and goods. the right to live and work in any member state is one of the fundamental freedoms of the eu, which also recognises the right to non-discrimination on grounds of nationality and to equal treatment. the member states must remove all barriers by the end of this year, because there is no economic justification for them. on the contrary, the member states with the highest numbers of romanians and bulgarians had an increase in gdp. their economies have grown and there is no evidence that they have been a burden on social security and health services, thus helping to bring the crisis to an end. i am voting in favour of this resolution because we are all european citizens with the same rights and duties and it makes no sense to create mechanisms to control and/or restrict the free movement of workers, particularly bulgarians and romanians, without a clear and transparent socioeconomic justification for a serious disruption of the labour market.
in writing. - it is not enough to say that freedom of movement for workers is a basic principle of the european union. we must ensure that equal rights are guaranteed for all, that the european union's guidelines and economic policies create the jobs needed for all and that the necessary economic and social mechanisms are guaranteed to avoid any kind of social dumping. it is therefore time to end the restrictions on access to the respective labour markets for romanian and bulgarian citizens, as in many cases these restrictions can serve as a cover for bogus self-employment and undeclared and irregular work, which undermines the rights of all workers in the host countries and of the citizens of bulgaria and romania. we know that the promotion of neoliberal policies is aggravating unemployment, precarious and low-paid work, undeclared work, where social dumping proliferates, the exploitation of workers intensifies and the culture of xenophobia and racism is created. we insist on policies of economic and social progress, on the firm fight against the most diverse forms of discrimination, on the defence of equal rights and opportunities, and on respect for the dignity of workers.
in writing. − the free movement of workers represents a positive socioeconomic example, both for the eu and for the member states. it is a framework for european integration, boosting economic development, social cohesion, individual promotion at professional level, countering the negative effects of the economic crisis and making europe a stronger economic power, ready to face the challenges of global change. in addition, globalisation, new working patterns and demographic changes require a higher degree of mobility among workers. however, serious disturbances in certain labour markets should be assessed in line with the criteria and methodology defined by the commission, so as not to create distortions and significant impacts.
in writing. − this resolution calls on member states wishing to maintain restrictions on access to their labour market for romanian and bulgarian workers to provide, in a clear and transparent manner, a comprehensive justification, in line with the criteria and methodology defined by the commission and substantiated by convincing arguments and data, including all socioeconomic indicators, that have led to the conclusion that geographical mobility is causing a serious disturbance in their labour market. i voted in favour of this resolution, making sure that restrictions must be exceptional and duly justified.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that in four years of implementation of the eu strategy for asia, satisfactory results have been achieved. the eu has launched important initiatives and programmes to support the priorities set out in its initial document, and i would highlight those which focused on good governance, the rule of law, human rights and democratisation; education and training; economic development, trade and investment; transport and energy; environmental sustainability and water management; tackling threats and responding to common challenges; intercultural dialogue. there has been a lot of activity, member states have a direct stake in implementing the eu strategy, european banks (eib, ebrd) are currently active in the region. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that since 2007, major changes have taken place around the world: in the context of the global economic and social crisis, arab revolutions follow one another and the international coalition begins to withdraw from afghanistan with no certainty about the outcome of the war after ten years of military intervention. the european union must therefore remain vigilant and strengthen its link with asia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it aims to strengthen cooperation between the eu and central asia by promoting better management of the region's water and energy resources, as well as the defence of human rights, the rule of law and regional security.
in writing. - the central asian region has historically been in the geostrategic orbit of russia/soviet union and traces of this coexistence and influence are still visible today. in addition to russia, china and the united states have strategic interests in central asia, seeking to secure control of energy sources and raw materials. the european union too is trying to assert itself, but it must be admitted that it is not as attractive to local authorities as the other powers mentioned, nor has it been able to present a fully coherent policy for the region, thanks to its internal diversity. the union has sought to reverse this state of affairs through the use of partnership and cooperation agreements, but despite the significant progress made, it is safe to say that there is a lot of misunderstanding and little contact between the european union and central asia. with its own external action service, the european union should try to fill this information gap about the european union and try to use the soft power it has to promote change in those countries, particularly in terms of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, free and fair competition and the opening of markets.
in writing. - this report, by nicole kiil-nielsen, looks at the state of play of the implementation of the european union strategy for central asia. this is a very important region for the eu's foreign policy, which, if it moves away, will hand over the geo-strategic dominance to russia and china. despite problems such as high levels of poverty and drug production - often associated with human rights violations - it is a region rich in natural resources and can diversify export routes, making it essential to strengthen trade. the eu should therefore review its strategy towards these central asian countries in the light of the report's conclusions, in particular by supporting projects and initiatives that promote the defence of universal values and human rights. its experience in interregional cooperation gives it a facilitating and mediating role between the five countries concerned and could help to stimulate economic growth and combat unemployment. i welcome the adoption of this report which places particular care in the choice of institutions to support so that eu funds are not channelled to pro-governmental or human rights organisations.
in writing. − as central asia is of well-known but often underestimated strategic importance to europe, the eu should reflect on central asia policy, assess the results achieved to date and suggest new approaches to adapt action to a region faced with numerous threats that may have repercussions in europe. i therefore think that the eu should rigorously reassess its strategy and strengthen its involvement, focusing on the objectives and actions that are most likely to contribute to addressing the most pressing challenges: human rights and the rule of law, water and energy, and regional security.
in writing. − the development of an eu strategy for central asia in 2007 was a recognition and commitment to a comprehensive and structured approach that has borne positive fruit. the eu rapporteur's perspective is to rigorously reassess the eu strategy and to strengthen its participation, focusing on the objectives and actions most likely to contribute to addressing the most pressing challenges, which he considers to be human rights and the rule of law, water and energy, and regional security. i have voted in favour of this report because i consider the strategy presented to be balanced.
in writing. − the eu strategy for the new partnership for the central asian region was established in 2007, demonstrating the importance of this geographical area in the global context. the cooperation priorities underpinning this partnership are consistent with those established with other third countries, in particular in the fields of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democracy, education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, the environment, intercultural dialogue and common challenges and threats. this report aims to highlight once again the importance of the main challenges of this partnership by strengthening the participation of ngos and civil society in order to establish new funding channels. assistance shall be conditional on progress as presented in the annual reports. i am in favour of adopting this document and the oral amendment tabled for the establishment of an eu interparliamentary forum with the national parliaments of central asia.
in writing. − the eu strategy for the new partnership for the central asian region was established in 2007, demonstrating the importance of this geographical area in the global context. the cooperation priorities underpinning this partnership are consistent with those established with other third countries, in particular in the fields of human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democracy, education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, the environment, intercultural dialogue and common challenges and threats. this report aims to highlight once again the importance of the main challenges of this partnership by strengthening the participation of ngos and civil society in order to establish new funding channels. assistance shall be conditional on progress as presented in the annual reports. i am in favour of adopting this document and the oral amendment tabled for the establishment of an eu interparliamentary forum with the national parliaments of central asia.
in writing. − i approve this report which provides a comprehensive analysis of the implementation of the 2007-2012 strategy on health and safety at work. it is essential to ensure a high level of health and safety at work, to prevent risks in order to reduce the rate of work-related accidents and diseases, and to consider the positive impact of good management of health and safety at work, both at national and european levels and at company level. i have no doubt that proper prevention of workers promotes well-being, quality of work and productivity. i would like to point out a growing phenomenon which is also having an impact in this area: subcontracting and temporary work, which often involve strained and sometimes illegal working relationships, making it more difficult to identify responsibility for health and safety provisions at work. finally, i would like to stress the need to pay more attention to the growing impact of chronic work-related health problems such as musculoskeletal injuries (msds) and psychosocial risks.
in writing. - i naturally agree with the need to protect workers from all risks to their safety and health at work. there is already a broad consensus in europe and other developed countries and an adequate legislative framework. fortunately, we are a long way from the blackboard that charles dickens painted in the 19th century of working conditions in britain. without calling into question this (already established) protection, it is worth considering whether this is the time to ask for more protection for workers. the truth is that we are going through one of the most difficult economic crises and that unemployment is rising all over europe. perhaps this is the time to create more jobs to boost the european economy and not to create more rules and more duties for employers, lest this ultimately only harm the workers we want to protect.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis must not be used to neglect health and safety at work. there are thousands of people dying at enormous cost to individuals, businesses and social security. we must prevent occupational diseases, both physical and mental. this text focuses on the mid-term evaluation report of the european strategy for health and safety at work 2007-2014. according to this report, 168 000 european union citizens die every year as a result of accidents at work or occupational diseases, and 7 million are injured. this is a matter which requires a new approach to reduce the risks of accidents and occupational diseases, which would save a significant amount and improve productivity and quality of life. the potential risks of new diseases due to new technologies and new substances such as nanomaterials should be considered in the legislation in force, as well as the stress caused by work. it is also essential that workers feel free to report all situations which could lead to an accident and not feel constrained to keep silent. so i voted in favour.
in writing. the report adopted today criticises the mid-term review of the community strategy on health and safety at work. it also considers that the review did not provide any substantive information on the situation of the member states in relation to the eu strategy. it also stresses that the vast majority of member states have not yet set targets for occupational diseases, health problems and work-related diseases and for risk factors in occupational or high-risk sectors, as required by the community strategy. the report focuses on positive aspects, which we support, such as the advocacy of preventive action, preparedness in occupational safety and health and also the full protection of temporary, parttime and most vulnerable workers. it also seeks to focus more on stress and psychosocial risk factors. it emphasises gender-discriminated statistics and gender-specific risk assessment. it called for greater involvement of workers in the design, monitoring and implementation of prevention policies, insisted on a stronger link with reach, advocated a ban on asbestos and recalled the ilo recommendation on risk prevention inspectors and labour inspectors. for these reasons, we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of a mid-term evaluation of the european strategy for health and safety at work. in addition to the right to health being a fundamental right, all workers benefit from the legal guarantee of working conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity, and are also alert to the positive impact of good management of health and safety at work at both national and european level and at company level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing to the strategy of involving all workers in prevention policies. i believe that it is important, in order to provide adequate answers, to identify the categories of workers at risk as well as those who are not covered, and to take measures to ensure that all workers are covered by prevention policies and effectively benefit from the respect of their fundamental right to health.
in writing. - european legislation on health and safety at work is already quite complete, meeting the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. however, according to this report, there is still work to be done, particularly with regard to psychosocial conditions. at the same time, there is a call on the member states to apply the directives already adopted, so that harmonisation is ever wider. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. health and safety at work should not be seen as another burden for companies, but rather as a way of increasing well-being at work by providing increased productivity.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis of the european union's policy on the middle east. in reaction to the publication of this article, grand ayatollah fazel lankarani, an iranian, issued a fatwa calling for the assassination of rafig tagi. nine days later, rafig was the victim of a knife attack from which he did not survive, eventually dying on november 23. rafig was right. islam is a millenary religion that is only discredited by attitudes like those of president mahmoud ahmadinejad and ayatollah lankarani. the thousand-year-old persian culture, which we all admire for its sophistication and advancement, is tainted by people like this. the coexistence between persian civilization and azeri culture, also made up of millennia of neighborhood and proximity, is severely disturbed by this kind of attitudes. let us hope that the new non-permanent membership of the un security council for the period 2012-2014 will lead iran to take the long-awaited steps, such as the abolition of the death penalty and the end of the systematic and barbaric human rights violations committed in that country against iranian citizens and now abroad against citizens of other nationalities. of course, we can't just wait. the european union cannot just pass resolutions of this kind. we have already discussed here in our last session that there are european companies which are helping the iranian authorities to censor the internet or to distort broadcasts of the democratic opposition in iran. we must sanction these european companies or our words will not have the necessary credibility.
(s&d). – mr president, i will never forget the self-burned women whom i visited in herat in 2008 and the tales i heard of the women who filled the jails of afghanistan, escaping oppressive families and a police and judicial system that badly discriminates against them. i have no doubt that much has improved since the liberation from the rule of the taliban, but i know that we are facing tremendous risks with the negotiations with the taliban. it is imperative that the eu demands that women be at the negotiating table and demands that the afghani authorities be held accountable for afghanistan’s international obligations. there is a vibrant society in pakistan, but it is not enough to have a woman in a position of power, namely as foreign minister. it is incredible and outrageous that discriminatory uncivilised laws prevail against women, from hudood, to marriage laws, blasphemy and so on. it is imperative, as we have requested in this resolution, that we demand accountability for the human rights clause that is inserted in the eu-pakistan cooperation agreement.
mr president, afghanistan and pakistan are cases where the worst trends in international geopolitics, the politics of great empires and great powers, are combined with the worst local trends. and then when these countries no longer serve their temporary purpose for the big international politics, you let these countries fall and then the worst tribal, atavistic tendencies of these countries come back up. that's what happened in afghanistan. in afghanistan, the united states has now discovered, here a few years ago, that there is no military solution to afghanistan. of course there is no military solution to afghanistan. we have known for decades - if not centuries or millennia - that there is no military solution to afghanistan. however, they are preparing to make a transitional government, including the taliban, which will roll back, by and large, all kinds of practices, in this case anti-women, which are already traditional in this country, such as the practice of the baad, the sale of women, or the gang rapes to clean the honor of certain families. yes, we voted in favour of these resolutions, but we demand that the european union be aware of these developments, particularly when it implements its agreements with these countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. in a year, no one could have imagined what could have happened in the arab world and what we have seen unfold before our eyes. the text we have in this urgent debate on the case of mr zacharia bouguira, who protested against the police after witnessing a moment of police brutality, is a bit more than that. we walked a lot in one year. that's why tunisians call their revolution not the jasmine revolution, but the revolution of dignity, because in one year we went from someone who had no other way of expressing himself in the face of police brutality or in the face of police humiliation than to immolate himself by fire to someone who wants dignity in his country's politics. the dignity of the citizen who complains and a treatment i say by the authorities. we must think beyond the narrow framework of this parliamentary urgency. it should make us think that we have in tunisia probably the best example of the new wave of arab democracy and that we, on this side of the mediterranean, where we have crisis in the southern mediterranean countries, are not taking advantage of the demographic dynamics, the economic dynamics, the political dynamics that come from these countries. what we want is to close the borders and not to admit refugees. i think the urgency we must have is an urgency to rethink our european policy in the first place. and i leave you with this challenge.
mr president, i had the great privilege of being an international observer to the first free elections in tunisia recently. i was very moved two days ago to see the great human rights defender, moncef marzuki, being sworn in as president of the republic. i know that tunisia has all the conditions to succeed on its path to democracy, but i also know that this episode of zacharia bouguira and the 13 young moroccan victims of abuse illustrates that this is a long journey that requires great perseverance and support. support from the european union, in particular, for the reform of the security sector system, judicial, police, magistrates, judges, officials of the ministry of the interior and justice. the european union can make a difference in supporting the reforms that are needed and in that sense it will also be very helpful if tunisia considers establishing a human rights council as called for in this resolution.
