in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the content of her report. construction is an equally sensitive and important area of the european economy and we need harmonisation. i say sensitive not only in terms of how the sector has responded to the crisis, but also in terms of the large number of workers, 12 million, and smes, some 65 000. i strongly support the idea that we must recognize the need for a high level of occupational safety and health in construction. i am equally and clearly referring to accidents at work, which are quite common, but also to the dangerous substances used in the process. in conclusion, i would add one thing: the single market in construction needs support in accordance with its importance and specificity, but also for the sensitive aspects i mentioned at the beginning of my speech.
the european commission has started the process of concluding voluntary partnership agreements with countries that export wood to the european union. in this context, i believe it is important to develop a structure of active participation of local communities, both to monitor the implementation of the agreement and to improve the governance framework in the forestry sector and, not least, to avoid corruption as much as possible. the involvement of civil society in the process of drafting the agreement with cameroon is a positive signal in this regard. at the same time, concrete measures are needed to continue this type of dialogue in all signatory countries. the building of a socially and environmentally sustainable timber industry, including by reducing deforestation and forest degradation in these countries, should also be pursued. the agreements must respect the european union's international commitments on the environment and sustainable development.
in writing. flegt voluntary partnership agreements were a good basis on which to build international cooperation to tackle the problem of deforestation. and they continue to show their relevance today, especially in the context of last year's illegal timber regulation. countries which adhere to such voluntary schemes are able to give certain guarantees about the legality and environmental sustainability of their timber sources. there are clear benefits in terms of environmental protection, although we should be mindful of the fact that trade in legally harvested timber is not necessarily sensitive to needs of indigenous people. it is important that, as more vpas are agreed, their effects are closely monitored and that their terms take full account of the needs and human rights of people who are dependent on forests, but who often do not have a voice in the management of those forests.
the current interim partnership agreement concluded in november 2007 by the european commission and the states of papua new guinea and fiji has been strongly criticised by civil society and politicians in the pacific region. they underlined the negative consequences that the agreement had on the level of interregional solidarity and the political will for economic integration in the region. the latter was divided into groups which negotiated individually and under pressure to reach an interim agreement with the european commission. it is also considered that the granting of originating status, a derogation from the payment of customs duties in the union for fishery products originating in papua new guinea and fiji, has led to the creation of a processing centre for these products, including non-originating products, by firms in the neighbouring states, with the aim of taking advantage of the derogation. this would have a detrimental effect on industry, workers and local incomes, given that the fishing industry is one of the most important job generators in these countries. it would also represent unfair competition for european products. it is therefore possible that the agreement had the opposite of the desired effect. the european commission must therefore ensure that the future partnership agreement will contribute both to the development of a sustainable, job-creating local fisheries industry and to closer regional integration, for example by negotiating the future agreement with the pacific region as a whole.
i appreciate the interest of my colleagues in the italian delegation in the situation of abandoned children, an interest which we all share, but this is a matter for national jurisdiction only. i insisted on taking part in this debate because i come from a country that is under pressure to resume international adoptions and to change the legislation in force. but in romania, there are more families willing to adopt than there are adoptable children, and our legislation, which has been attended by many international experts, is in perfect coordination with the european one. with reference to this resolution, i would point out that the phrase 'the right of the child to be internationally adopted', as provided for in paragraph (d), is not recognised by the un convention and the hague convention. international adoption is only one option. these children are brought into the system because of the precarious situation of the families from which they come, which, according to the law and international conventions, should not be a reason for adoption. hence the high number of children in the foster care system. 22,966 children have a parent, though. romanian law does not provide for parental deprivation except in the case of abuse. so these kids aren't in any position to be adopted. so are the 22,285 children in foster care. the reasoning behind the resolution must be focused on the best interests of the child, as my colleagues have said before, and not the adopter. it is the duty of each state and no one else to choose the best solutions for its children. finally, i recommend that everyone should become more familiar with national legislation. i am referring to the fact that, for example, several italian juvenile courts issued seven adoption decisions for romanian children in 2009, without taking into account our legislation.
i welcome this debate in the european parliament's plenary, on the premise that the protection of children's rights is and must be a priority for every member state of our union. the ultimate goal for everyone here is to promote the interests of children. of course, common and strict criteria, which the member states must implement, are necessary to improve the care and living conditions of institutionalized and abandoned children and to protect them when they are adopted, and especially now, when budgetary austerity seems to be the only idea of the right-wing governments in the european union. the first step is therefore to ensure that these children are properly cared for; the second is to combat child trafficking and child prostitution; the third is to remember that, in the interests of children, priority must be given to adoptions by a family member and national adoptions; and the fourth is to give priority to international adoptions. because here we can only draw conclusions from the past, opening the gates for intentional adoptions in romania meant the creation of unprecedented child trafficking networks, cases of child abduction and their sale to the west, in collaboration with european and international organizations. between 1997 and 2000, romania exported 9,150 copies, and my country will never accept such a monstrosity again. finally, i would like to ask you, through you, to ask commissioner reding to clarify the allegations that have appeared in the romanian and international media regarding the european agency for the supervision of intercountry adoptions, a proposal that also appears in the study commissioned by the european commission. a colleague in the european parliament is still awaiting commissioner reding's answer to a question.
the oral question which launched the resolution on intercountry adoptions brings a subject of major importance to the european parliament's agenda. international adoption can only be considered as an alternative means once national adoption arrangements have been exhausted. intercountry adoption also presents a number of particularities and difficulties, which are largely due to the limited interaction between the child and the adopters in the period prior to adoption and the problems of linguistic and cultural adaptation encountered by the child after adoption. the principle of the best interests of the child and not of the adopter, as enshrined in the un convention and the hague convention, must underpin the european parliament's resolution, focusing on the development of the child in a family environment, ensuring continuity in the child's upbringing and taking into account the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background. the principle of reintegration of the child from the protection system into the biological or extended family is essential in the analysis of the adoption case and the drafting of the resolution. i would like to draw attention to a confusion that is often made between the number of children separated from their parents but in the foster care system and the number of children who are available for adoption. separated children enjoy limited protection from the state and are not adoptable. i believe that we do not need control mechanisms and that the existing principles at international level relating to them are sufficient.
i would also like to refer to the un convention which states that international adoptions can only be an alternative to helping a child when he cannot be found a foster family or when he cannot be properly cared for in his country of origin. the risks of liberalizing international adoptions are many. on the one hand, the possibility of child trafficking and abuse is increasing due to financial interests and the difficulties in monitoring the post-adoption situation. on the other hand, separating a child from his biological parents, from his place of origin, can have dire psychological, social, and educational consequences. when we talk about adoption, we must first of all have in mind the welfare of the child and therefore we must not put pressure on the member states of the union, with their different traditions and legal procedures in the field of adoption, to liberalize international adoptions.
the resolution on intercountry adoption in the union should clearly mention the following: families intending to use intercountry adoption must have the opinion of the competent national institution in their country of origin; the international adoption must take place only under the responsibility of the competent authorities of the two member states, of the family and of the child. the monitoring of children adopted through the intercountry adoption procedure should also be carried out by the national institution with responsibilities in this field. last but not least, the competent national authorities should report regularly to the member state of origin of the child adopted through the intercountry adoption procedure on the development of the child.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
the use of psychotropic and psychoactive substances, which are usually in the grey area of legislation, has far more harmful effects than any other known drug. these substances are commonly found in european dream shops and are known as ethnobotanics, a term coined to give a harmless appearance to drug trafficking and use. countries such as poland, israel, sweden, denmark, england, germany have already banned a significant number of substances identified as psychotropic and psychoactive. the substances on the market, although not on the list of banned substances, are very difficult to control, making it impossible for the medical profession to help because the chemical combinations used have unknown reactions. the only measure that can be taken is to ban the operation of these stores, after which we must concentrate our efforts on eliminating marketing via the internet.
the agenda includes the report by daciana octavia sârbu, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector for food security [2010/2112 (ini) ].
the reporter. − i am honoured to present my report, which speaks to the strategic importance of agriculture in ensuring food security in the european union. agriculture is neglected in the debate on the eu's strategy and future, and the report shows that europe is not food secure, that farmers and entire rural areas are in danger of disappearing, and that new challenges such as climate change are threatening to destabilise already dwindling food supplies, not only in europe but also in the world. with food production set to increase by at least 70% by 2050 to meet the global food needs, food security needs to be at the centre of both global and european debates. the european union must respond firmly to these challenges, and through this report we are trying to propose today some concrete ways of acting. first, we need a strong common agricultural policy designed to guarantee the food security of its citizens and to contribute to global food security in the context of limited resources and the effects of climate change. we cannot talk about food security without addressing two key issues: market and price volatility and dwindling global food supplies. as regards price volatility, i asked the commission to strengthen the role of market intervention instruments in the new cap and to take more substantial measures to limit speculation on agricultural markets. today, global food supplies are much more limited than in the past, with estimates that they can supply the world's food needs for only a month and a half. i therefore thought it would be beneficial to create a global food reserve system, both emergency food reserves to reduce hunger and food reserves to be used to regulate prices on agricultural markets, under international auspices and drawing on the expertise of existing institutions such as the un or the fao. another important issue addressed in this report is the situation of young farmers. if we are thinking about the future of european agriculture, then we must pay more attention to young farmers. at european level, only 7% of farmers are under 35. i have therefore asked the commission to provide for measures to encourage them. on the other hand, we stressed the need to preserve the diversity of european agriculture. in this context, i mentioned that traditional agricultural practices, family farms, small farms and organic farming can make a valuable contribution to food security and called for the creation of programmes at european level to support these types of agriculture. but let us not forget that poverty and hunger still exist in the union and that millions of europeans have been receiving european food aid this winter. in the context of the economic crisis, it is therefore of the utmost importance to maintain the european programme 'food aid for the most deprived' with european funding. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the other colleagues on the committee on agriculture for their good cooperation and contributions to the drafting of this report, and the secretariat of the committee on agriculture, and i hope that together we will adopt tomorrow a report that meets the expectations of the european citizens.
in writing. the increase in global food demand as a result of the world's growing population is clearly reflected in natural food resources and involves new regulations and precautions in the area of food security. the eu has a priority mission to guarantee the right to food security for its member states and to support developing countries in achieving an adequate level of food security. it considers it important to promote the production and marketing of traditional local foods. regional food has multiple benefits: reduced transport costs and reduced risk of perishability. there are many regions with a strong agricultural potential that is not being exploited because of social or economic imbalances, such as the increasing ageing of the rural population or industrialization. thus, large areas of agricultural land are not used efficiently. regional authorities can play a key role in ensuring food security by supporting the agricultural capacity of regions with this potential. the eu is one of the world leaders in research and innovation, including in agriculture. with a growing majority of the urban population, a new challenge arises: how much priority is given to the development of urban agriculture in order to ensure food security through various models such as vertical urban agriculture?
in writing. i welcome the report on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security, but at the same time i regret that parliament has decided to allocate so little time to its debate. the theme is all the more relevant in this period, when we have become aware of how the food crisis can affect the stability of states. the tunisian revolt was motivated by the rising cost of food. algeria, india, bangladesh are countries where food prices have caused serious tensions. the increase in biodiesel crops, financial speculation, the extremely rapid shift of producers to more profitable crops, and last but not least, the changing dietary habits of the citizens of many countries are also new topics, closely related to the subject of today's report. one final comment: in a japanese bank's food price vulnerability ranking, of the 40 most vulnerable countries, four are members of the european union, another state is soon to become a member of the eu, and three are the eu's immediate neighbors. an interesting top that should give us pause.
on behalf of the alde group. as a liberal, i must stress that the alde group is a group that has always supported the enlargement process, because we believe in a europe of all its members, a strong and united europe. as a romanian, i can only welcome this european path of serbia, while stressing that serbia is a european country and its european path will be achieved, certainly with difficulties, with difficulties that are due to a troubled past, but serbia must look ahead and try to forget the past, because reconciliation with the past must not be an impediment to a future european vocation. i would like to stress that it is essential for the whole region and, by implication, for serbia, that the copenhagen criteria are fair, sound and thoroughly implemented, because they alone guarantee respect for european values, the rule of law and viable democracies. i think that these two years since the historic decision to start on its european path prove that both the belgrade government and the serbian people are motivated, determined and believe strongly in this european project, because what else can be more important than european decisions taken by a government, without being forced to take these decisions by legal rigors or rigors that are related to the rules in which this political game is played. it is also vital for serbia to stabilize its economy, and the signs we see today in the serbian economy are very good. it is vital to stabilize its democracy, but at the same time it must be very attentive to the element of sensitivity that has been the multiculturalism of the balkans. the minority issue in this area must not be a conflict-generating issue and i believe that a model of support and support for minorities, of cultural conciliation, is essential.
madam president, the stabilisation and association agreement and the european integration of serbia are important for both serbia and the european union. i should like to make two remarks. in order to negotiate the agreement properly and to properly manage the integration process, the european union should start by identifying and recognising its own interests. europe has an unsolved albanian problem, a lack of geopolitical coherence on its southern flank, and a black hole of organised crime and corruption in its balkan area. this means that at the centre of the union there is a need for an enlarged functional and cohesive market and for better transportation corridors in that area. none of these problems can be solved without the contribution of serbia. secondly, we have to avoid treating serbia as a second-class european country and lecturing it on every occasion. serbia has indeed committed many sins, but the euro-atlantic contribution to the sins committed was also significant. 2011 is indeed a year of challenging opportunities for both serbia and the european union. we will not be able to rise to those opportunities unless we leave aside all narcissism and treat serbia as a peer. only a dignified serbia can be a reliable partner for a historic reconciliation in the balkans and a historic reunification within the european union. mr kacin’s report makes a remarkable contribution in that direction.
the council decision to initiate the procedure for ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement will encourage serbia to continue reforms to meet the copenhagen criteria. its entry into force will open up trade between the eu and serbia and offer tangible prospects for accession. to date, important progress has been made, notably in cooperation with eulex, judicial reform and the fight against corruption. i also believe that the non-recognition of kosovo's independence must not stand in the way of serbia's euro-atlantic aspirations. in particular, the serbian government has shown its willingness to engage in a renewed dialogue with kosovo under the eu umbrella. i would also like to mention serbia's key role in securing peace in the balkans. in this respect, i consider it very important that the open door policy be continued towards all the countries of the western balkans. romania has unreservedly supported the expansion of this region to the eu and nato, with a special mention for serbia. finally, i would stress that the efforts and aspirations of this country must be recognized by the european states and encouraged at the same time. we have a duty to support our partners in the balkans in continuing the euro-atlantic path they have already chosen.
madam president, the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia represents another important step in the process of integration towards the eu undertaken by serbia. we are talking about a country whose progress in recent years has already been impressive, and i think that further political and economic integration on the basis of the saa will give the final boost that serbia needs on its path towards the eu. in view of the important role that serbia plays in the western balkans, the saa will have a positive influence not only on the eu and on serbia, but also on the region as a whole by enhancing its security, stability and development, as well as setting solid foundations for the enlargement process in the western balkans. i hope that, after it has received the green light from the european parliament, the saa process can be concluded as soon as possible. i would therefore ask the member states to ensure that the ratification process takes place as smoothly and rapidly as possible.
although there were fears that developments in belgian domestic politics might affect the performance of the rotating presidency, i am pleased that belgium has proved to be unlike the predictions, managing european files in a pragmatic and effective manner. the belgian presidency was thus the flagship of a number of european issues: the launch of the european external action service, economic growth and fiscal consolidation, the adoption of the european citizens' initiative regulation, the launch of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. as regards romania's interests, the belgian presidency's approach was fair and balanced. in two sensitive cases for romania, the belgian presidency chose the options that best corresponded to the reasoned position of the romanian side: discussing the roma issue from the perspective of social inclusion and managing the procedure for referring the draft decision on romania and bulgaria's accession to schengen to the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the commission, in its proposal for the codification of the third directive 78/855/eec of 9 october 1978 on mergers of public limited liability companies, took account of the drafting or formal adaptations suggested by the legal services advisory group and which proved to be well founded. for example, the advisory group suggests that it is of particular importance that shareholders of merging companies are properly and as objectively as possible informed and that their rights are adequately protected. however, there is no need to require an examination of the draft terms of merger by an independent expert. the administrative or management bodies of each of the companies involved shall also inform the general meeting of their company and the administrative or management bodies of the other companies involved of any substantial change between the date of drawing up the draft terms of merger and the date of the general meetings which are to decide on the draft terms of merger.
in writing. - i voted for the report, as did my colleagues. beyond the formal aspect, it is important in terms of the overall role of a europe united in its various areas, its economic role, but also its political role. among these, the mediterranean area has been and remains an area of strategic interest.
in writing. - as i said in my speech yesterday, i voted in favour of this report. we need to make progress on harmonising the global construction market. i'm talking about the safety of workers, their migration, but also the safety of building materials for our health. as regards future information points on building materials, i very much hope that they will provide objective information, be operational as soon as possible in the member states and have financial support, so as to be useful to interested citizens and businesses. i hope that the new regulations will take effect as soon as possible and that we, as a people, will see that we have made progress and that the construction industry as a whole is no longer one of the most dangerous industries.
in writing. − the need to act on the marketing of construction products in the eu is of crucial importance given the size of this sector. the construction sector is one of the most important industries in europe, accounting for 10% of gdp and 50.5% of gross fixed capital. this sector directly employs 12 million eu citizens, with a further 26 million workers dependent on it. the economic downturn has hit the eu construction industry hard, with a number of eu companies going bankrupt and many workers losing their livelihoods. this is also the case in romania where, after a boom in the construction market, construction is facing an acute shortage of orders. experts estimate that 2011 will not bring the return of the construction market, and even estimate that it could record minimum values, compared to the last decade. in these circumstances, any measure that can be taken to support the construction sector is a welcome contribution. in this context, the revision of the construction products directive should support the sector by removing trade barriers faced by manufacturers and thus help businesses to continue to operate and workers to keep their jobs.
in writing. − the regulation on the harmonisation of the marketing of construction products is a step forward in improving the functioning of the internal market in this field and the free movement of construction products. an important point is also that the application of the regulation will help to minimise the occurrence of unintended non-conformities of construction products with their declaration of performance, which will result in minimising material losses. the prevention of risk of non-compliance is necessary to avoid the placing on the market for the purpose of marketing of products which do not comply with the requirements of this regulation, in order to ensure the performance of construction products and the compliance with the essential requirements for construction.
in writing. − the need to act on the marketing of construction products in the eu is of crucial importance given the size of this sector. according to the european committee for standardisation, the construction sector is one of the most important industries in europe, accounting for 10% of gdp and 50.5% of gross fixed capital. the sector directly employs 12 million eu citizens, with a further 26 million workers dependent on it. in addition, about 92% of construction material manufacturers i.e. 65 000 enterprises are smes with less than 250 employees. as smes are a key pillar of our economy, this proposal calls for recognition of their role and needs, and a high level of health and safety for those working in this sector. i voted in favour of this report because the proposal contributes to increasing the competitiveness of the industry by simplifying existing legislation, improving transparency and reducing the administrative burden on businesses, and to support romania's interest in introducing the obligation to assess the performance of products covered by harmonised standards, the issuance of the declaration of performance and the application of the ce marking.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing directive 89/106/eec. the construction sector is an important sector of european industry, directly employing 12 million eu citizens and another 26 million workers dependent on it. the economic downturn has hit the eu construction industry hard, with many workers losing their jobs. this has led to a decrease of up to 14,2% in the sector's activity in 2008-09. in this context, the revision of the construction products directive (89/106/eec) is a measure to support the construction sector by removing the trade barriers faced by manufacturers, thus encouraging businesses to continue to operate and workers to keep their jobs. buildings must, as a whole and in their components, correspond to their intended use, taking into account in particular the health and safety of the persons involved throughout the life cycle of the buildings. buildings must also be energy efficient, with the lowest possible energy consumption over their lifetime and thus lower costs for users.
in writing. − this report commits the european union to close cooperation around a common vision of humanitarian aid. i believe that the intensity of natural disasters is also due to human actions that are at the root of climate change. i also encourage member states to engage in the implementation of this european consensus on humanitarian aid. support the promotion of actions in this area: promoting humanitarian principles and international humanitarian law, improving the quality of coordination and coherence in the delivery of eu humanitarian aid, clarifying the use of military and civil protection means and capabilities in accordance with the humanitarian consensus and un directives, reducing disaster risks and strengthening the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union is the world's largest donor, contributing 40% of global assistance. over 100 million people in over 70 countries received almost one billion euros in eu aid in 2009. but it's a shame that we are often the champions of donations in states that later choose to receive chinese foreign direct investment. perhaps european donations and investments should be coordinated, rather than lamenting that china has become the world's second largest economy. the humanitarian context has changed significantly in recent years, making the rigorous and strengthened implementation of the humanitarian consensus all the more relevant. as regards the evolution of the context, it is first necessary to mention the significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, mainly caused by climate change. therefore, in addition to providing targeted assistance and supporting the capacity of communities themselves, it is necessary to prepare them to respond to disasters. the political commitments exist - the eu strategy and the hyogo action plan - but problems persist in their implementation.
in writing. − the humanitarian consensus is a fundamental tool that is particularly valuable in this changing humanitarian context. we have seen a significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, mainly caused by the impact of climate change, a multiplication of complex crises, especially internal conflicts, and an evolution in the nature of conflicts, which are often accompanied by massive population displacements. violations of international humanitarian law are on the rise. a particularly shocking aspect of violations of international humanitarian law is that sexual violence is increasingly being used as a weapon of war. i support the rapporteur's position and believe that strong measures are needed to strengthen protection against sexual violence in humanitarian contexts. i agree with the report's author that the recent humanitarian disasters in haiti and pakistan have once again demonstrated the need to strengthen the eu's disaster response capacity in terms of effectiveness, speed, coordination and visibility. i also support the creation of a european rapid reaction capability (european civil protection force).
in writing. − the last period is characterised by a significant increase in the number and intensity of natural disasters, whether man-made or not, and an increase in the negative effects of violations of international humanitarian law and poor governance. as is well known, the european union is the world's leading humanitarian aid donor, contributing around 40% of official international humanitarian assistance, as evidenced by the 115 million people assisted in some 70 countries, who have benefited from a total contribution of almost one billion euros. i voted in favour of this consensus because i believe that the eu's humanitarian policy is a concrete demonstration of its commitment to people who are in real need. to this end, we need sufficient human and material resources and we need to support improved coordination between the institutions and organisations involved in this process.
in writing. − recent volatility in food and commodity prices has raised serious concerns about the functioning of the food supply chain at european and global level. the rise in food prices has hit the most vulnerable groups of the population hardest. this report encourages the provision of healthy, high-quality food at reasonable prices to consumers and the maintenance of agricultural incomes, two of the key objectives of the european union. i voted in favour of this report. by becoming more competitive, europe can contribute to global food security.
in writing. - i voted for this report because poverty and hunger still exist in the european union. 79 million people in the eu still live below the poverty line. my amendments stress that the right to food is a basic human right and that it exists when all people have permanent physical, social and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their nutritional needs to lead an active and healthy life. i would particularly like to stress the importance of diversity in european agriculture and of ensuring the coexistence of different agricultural models, as well as the diversity and quality of food and nutrition throughout europe.
in writing. − the european union has a duty to respond to the challenges of food security, the supply of high-quality food, environmental protection, rural diversity, and maintaining territorial balance by improving rural living conditions. the cap offers answers and solutions to these challenges of the future and it is important that the objectives and instruments it identifies try to respond as well as possible to the need to integrate national specificities into the architecture of the cap. it is clear that farmers need consistent direct support in the future, but the existing differences in direct payments between member states cannot be maintained any longer because this directly affects the level of competitiveness of agricultural products in the single market. the cap must be accountable for spending european money by concentrating area payments only on arable land and, for the livestock sector, only on animals on the farm in the year of the payments. pillar i of the cap should cover compensatory payments for less-favoured agricultural areas and agri-environmental payments, thus helping to prevent the abandonment of agricultural land and to compensate for the environmental benefits of extensive farming practices.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution on the recognition of agriculture as a strategic sector in the context of food security is a necessary and timely document, coming at a time of accelerated price increases for a wide range of food products. the recommendations in the report are realistic and to the point, and address real problems in the field. i note the importance attached to training and promoting new generations of farmers within the eu, which is essential in the context of an ageing population. i also note the attention paid to preserving the diversity of agriculture within the union, in order to give traditional farming an extra chance.
in writing. − as the right to food security is a basic human right, i believe that the european union must create better conditions for the implementation in the member states of nutrition support programmes, as well as those providing for the distribution of fruit and milk in schools.
in writing. − with food prices rising and talk of a future food crisis increasing, a large proportion of the eu population lives below the poverty line and it is vital to ensure that food is accessible to all social groups. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs a strong, competitive agricultural policy, based on innovation and aimed primarily at stabilising markets and encouraging and supporting farmers. at the same time, european consumers have the right to healthy, high-quality and reasonably-priced food, which are the main objectives of the common agricultural policy (cap) and key eu objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i regret, however, that the vote omitted some important provisions, such as the one on the possibility of authorising the use of production methods used in third countries in relation to genetically modified organisms. some countries have made enormous progress in this area, while the european union has lagged behind and is not living up to its full potential. i also regret that reference has been removed to the problem of the enormous agricultural areas which are not under cultivation in some member states.
in writing. − according to the fao, food production must increase by at least 70% to meet the growing demands of the world's population, which is estimated to exceed 9 billion by 2050. in addition, some 900 million people suffer from severe hunger due to extreme poverty, while almost 2 billion people lack real and long-term food security due to varying degrees of poverty. with food demand growing and 16% of european citizens living below the poverty line, the right to food and access to food becomes a priority. therefore, to create food security, a strong, market-oriented, distinct and environmentally responsible common agricultural policy (cap) is still needed, which also has a significant rural development component and which also addresses other challenges, in particular climate change, the economic crisis and preserving the territorial balance within the eu. food security as an objective cannot exist without addressing two of the most important issues of our time: volatile markets and prices and dwindling food supplies.
president of the commission. − from this visit to azerbaijan and turkmenistan, i have brought the clear commitment of both countries to give their full support to the european union in terms of the southern corridor. in fact i signed a joint declaration with the president of azerbaijan, mr aliyev, and the president of turkmenistan, mr berdimuhamedov, said publicly that he was ready to supply enough gas for europe – even more than we need at the present time. having said that, there are still problems to address. some of those problems have to be commercial decisions taken by the companies involved. they also concern the way in which the different pipelines can be built and developed. however, there is enough gas in that area to come to the european union if the member states of the european union are ready to cooperate with those countries and others to make that project available – either nabucco or other projects in the southern corridor.
given that more and more european families, especially in the context of the economic crisis and the rising unemployment rate, are spending more than 10% of their monthly income on paying their energy bills, i would like to ask you what concrete measures the european commission is considering to reduce energy poverty. i would also like to ask you whether you are considering a significant increase in the percentage of the european regional development fund that can be used by member states to increase the energy efficiency of housing, starting with the future financial perspective.
i would first like to congratulate minister gyori on the mandate she is about to assume, and to wish her and the hungarian presidency every success. i would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to this draft report which is before us today. as you may have heard, romania is one of the countries that has had reservations about a number of compromises that have been reached in the council. these reservations do not represent romania's opposition to cross-border healthcare, they expressed the romanian government's concern about financial sustainability, about the size of cross-border healthcare that it can receive, because, as you know very well, there are member states with very low national income. but investment is a means of reducing this risk, but at the same time i think that healthcare reforms in the member states are very important and i think that the european commission should be more involved in this healthcare reform.
i welcome the proposal in this directive to provide for more clearly defined patient rights, an end to endless waiting lists and to overcome the problem of professionals who do not exist in their own country. i think we all understand and feel the situation of the health systems in the new and modestly financed member states, because we also have to take account of the danger of the emigration of skilled workers. if we vote in favour, we will be asking for a new and huge effort from the health services of the member states with the most limited possibilities, and if we vote against, we will be indirectly still limiting the exercise of patients' rights in the member states concerned. i am convinced that we will be able to find ways of balancing the different health systems in the member states. in my country, for example, balneology, physiotherapy or even dentistry can provide competitive services.
access to cross-border healthcare services is a prerequisite for patients to be able to benefit from the best available treatment, and the establishment of clear and functional rules can make this possible. improving patients' rights, in particular by ensuring the provision of information and cooperation between member states, is possible through the development of the e-health system and the dissemination of information on cross-border healthcare. the promotion actions supported by cross-border cooperation programmes can create a level of awareness among patients that makes it possible to use the system with as little abuse as possible, in accordance with agreed rules. we therefore believe that ehealth and ensuring the effective promotion of cross-border healthcare systems must be key elements for the fulfilment of the directive's prerogatives.
in writing. there is currently too much uncertainty about access to healthcare, reimbursement and responsibility for clinical supervision in cross-border healthcare. this directive allows all patients - not just the best informed or the wealthiest among them - to benefit from a number of rights already recognised by the court of justice of the european union in relation to healthcare. the organisation and management of social security systems are the sole responsibility of the member states. the proposal concerns patients and their mobility within the eu, not the free movement of service providers. the directive provides for cooperation between member states in particular as regards the recognition of medical recommendations (treatments, prescriptions, etc.) issued in another member state, ehealth and hta (high technology assessment). citizens' access to this information will be facilitated through the reference network, established from the national contact points. the romanian authorities must therefore ensure that its citizens have access to information. the adoption of this report helps to ensure a good balance between the rights of eu patients to access the best medical treatment and the protection of the financial sustainability of the national social security system.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, first allow me to pay tribute to parliament, in particular to the rapporteur, mrs matias, for your commitment to addressing alzheimer’s and other dementias. the commission fully shares your concern. dementia means great suffering for millions of europeans and their families. with a population ageing fast, now is the time for europe to act. this is why the commission put forward a communication on alzheimer’s and other dementias in 2009 with action to improve prevention and diagnosis, research and best practice exchange. i am delighted that parliament is supporting ongoing work in this context and presenting a comprehensive set of recommendations. this report and its recommendations are very timely at a moment when the commission is about to launch a joint action with the member states on alzheimer’s in april, the so-called alcove (alzheimer cooperative valuation in europe). i am persuaded that this joint action will deliver on many of the recommendations that you are adopting here today. the joint action will focus on prevention – an area which parliament underlines in this report – and also on improving knowledge and data and sharing good practices. it will also address another area where parliament is calling for action: the rights of people living with dementia. i agree with you that we need fully coordinated research to understand better how to prevent or delay the onset of dementia. this is why the commission has launched a joint programming initiative on combating neurodegenerative diseases, in particular alzheimer’s. for the first time, 23 countries are working together to tackle alzheimer’s. there are good practices across europe on diagnosis and treatment for alzheimer’s and the commission is fostering exchange of knowledge and good practice. as recommended by parliament, i can also confirm that the innovation union initiative under the europe 2020 strategy will take as its first pilot area for the new european innovation partnership the topic of active and healthy ageing. action to support people suffering from dementia could be developed in this context. a good example could be the ongoing parliament initiative on carers. we hope to be able to support further innovative actions in this area which may also address the issues of alzheimer’s and other dementias. finally the commission looks favourably at a number of other recommendations, including declaring 2014 as european year of the brain. let me assure you that the commission is committed to doing its share to address dementia. let me now address the second topic in this debate: the petition filed by mr klein, the inventor and producer of the inhaler ‘effecto’. the placing on the market of the device in question was originally refused in germany in 1997. this decision was not pursued further, either by the commission, the german authorities, or the manufacturer. the then distributor indicated at the time that it would conduct further studies before placing the product on the market again. the device was placed back on the market in 2002 under a new name. when the product was again prohibited by the german authorities in 2005, the commission carefully analysed the case and concluded the procedure by formal letter to the german authorities and the manufacturer in july 2007. the commission analysis was that the prohibition by the german authorities was justified because the clinical data provided by the manufacturer was insufficient to demonstrate the safety of the device. according to the medical device directive, safety has to be demonstrated by the manufacturer in order for him to be allowed to use the ce marking. this meant that the applicable legal provision was article 18 of the directive which addresses cases where a product is placed on the market with improperly affixed ce marking. in this case, there is no formal commission decision. since, in the commission’s view, the case is not one to which the safeguard clause procedure applies, it has no reason to request notification of the 2005 prohibition adopted by the german authorities. the obstacle which the petitioner faces in placing the product on the market is the decision of the german authorities (the 2005 prohibition) and not a decision of the commission. the petitioner had clear legal avenues which he could pursue at national level, and indeed he has made use of these opportunities. his claims, however, were rejected by the german courts. i would like to stress that the commission has, since 2007, invited the petitioner to bring the device into compliance by providing the missing clinical data and has facilitated contacts between him and the german authorities to that end. to the commission’s knowledge, no action has been taken by the petitioner so far.
on behalf of the epp group. i'm going to talk about alzheimer's and other dementias. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs matias, on her work and, as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group on this dossier, i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed. the attention paid to this file shows the importance of the subject and, at the same time, the gravity of the phenomenon. the number of people with dementia stands at 9.9 million, with alzheimer's disease accounting for the largest proportion, and we expect this number to rise dramatically by 2020, with the disease still underdiagnosed in the european union. there are inequalities between member states in prevention, access to treatment and care. the actions are fragmented, the reactions are uneven in terms of research and the fight against this disease. the report is an important step towards the fight against this disease in the european union and a key step towards introducing a new way of working together among member states to take coordinated action to tackle problems affecting europe as a whole. the report supports solidarity between countries, the exchange of good practices, to avoid duplication of effort and waste of resources. i want to emphasize the importance of preventive diagnosis and early intervention in the early stages of the disease, and i believe this is the key to progress in the fight against this disease. i would also like to stress the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to research in this area. the fragmentation of disciplines and the weak link between primary, clinical, public health and social research influence the transfer of scientific findings into medical practice and care provision. the fact that all this is done at national level accentuates fragmentation. therefore, we need to focus on the multidisciplinary approach and on the transfer of findings and knowledge at the community level.
today, there is still much uncertainty and unknown about alzheimer's disease, and unfortunately, the situation continues to worsen as the population in europe ages. we obviously need more research and more studies on the causes and treatment of dementia, but as with noncommunicable diseases, there is evidence that simple lifestyle measures can prevent many conditions. that is why, in the amendments tabled, i have called for more research to be done into the effects of nutrition on the development of alzheimer's disease. many of us surely know at least one person affected by this disease or another form of dementia, and we know that, in fact, the personal costs are far greater than the social or financial costs. the widespread and devastating effects of dementia on so many people are of concern to us all. as a result, we have a very comprehensive report containing all the key issues and we want a positive reaction from the commission but also from the member states.
in writing. data on the prevalence of alzheimer' s disease and other dementias are available in the european union countries and have been collected by alzheimer europe. alzheimer's disease has been and is the leading cause of dementia in all countries. it accounts for 74.5% of dementia cases in north america, 61.4% in europe and 46.5% in asia. however, there are cases of undiagnosed alzheimer's disease in the european union, according to the latest available epidemiological data, only half of the people suffering from this disease are currently identified. in this context, i believe that member states need to develop long-term policies and action plans to improve access to funding for research into dementia and alzheimer's disease, including prevention research, at a level commensurate with their economic impact on society, and that anticipate and prevent social and demographic trends and focus on supporting the families of patients who care for them, thus providing social protection to vulnerable people with dementia.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the financial times’s scrutiny as it represents an important contribution to opening and broadening public debate about the efficiency and effectiveness of cohesion policy. the commission is aware of the habitually slower take-up at the beginning of a programming period. however, the most recent data show that the commission made more cohesion policy payments in the fourth quarter of 2010 than ever before. the vast majority of the payments made were interim payments, i.e. reimbursements of expenditure already made and certified in the member states. thus it is certain that, as has been seen in previous programming periods, cohesion policy spending is accelerating. absorption rates, in terms of eu payments to member states, are now at 21% for the cohesion fund, 22% for the european regional development fund (erdf) and 23% for the european social fund (esf). as regards support provided to multinational and large companies, the commission would emphasise that a primary objective of cohesion policy is growth and the creation of new jobs for particular regions and member states. any support for productive investment has to be seen in that context. promoting job creation and economic growth can be achieved in many ways, from setting-up small enterprises to supporting larger companies. cohesion policy intervention supports productive investment that is primarily targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises, as specified by the erdf and esf regulations. the commission also stressed the role of small and medium-sized enterprises during negotiation of the current programming documents. the vast majority of productive investment and investment in the development of endogenous potential is targeted at smes. however, there may be cases where, in line with the regulations, co-financing is granted to larger companies subject to compliance with the objectives of the funds and programmes concerned. in total, cohesion policy has allocated some eur 55 billion to business support between 2007 and 2013, a large share of which supports innovation in smes. the commission would like to point out that multinationals are not beneficiaries of the support extended by the esf. workers receive the co-financed training. the esf supports people. it is about providing training and retraining and improving skills to prepare people and help them find a job. a worker who has been employed in a given enterprise may well then find himself or herself engaged in another company. therefore, what matters is the skill capital that workers manage to build to sustain their inclusion in the labour market, not the name or type of enterprises providing the training. the commission considers that, from a policy perspective, firms should not receive european funding for investments which would lead to the loss of employment by the same company in another region of the european union, because the net effect of the esf investment might be zero or even negative. in cases where a company which has received cohesion policy support closes down, or ceases to support a project, within five years – or three years in the case of smes – this funding needs to be paid back. my final point – but it is a crucial one – is that while there are clearly areas for improvement this cannot and should not overshadow the major positive impact that cohesion policy is having. i would like to assure you that the commission is not shying away from the problems. indeed, in the past we have proposed changes, some of which were taken up, and we will continue to drive improvement of cohesion policy. cohesion policy brings clear benefits to the poorer regions of the european union, but it also clearly benefits the rest of europe.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for the quality of the information he has given, but i would like to add a comment: in a debate like this, when we are dealing with a subject like this, i think we should rather focus on future measures to avoid similar situations and, if i may say so, perhaps even more importantly, ask ourselves whether such reports, once they have come to the attention of the public, are not in any way likely to reduce citizens' confidence in the work of the european institutions.
it is true that young people are the most affected by the economic and financial crisis, but we must not forget the unemployed over 45 years of age. i would like to ask you, since you mentioned that 60% of the european progress microfinance facility will go to central and eastern europe: have you identified the barriers that countries in this region of europe have not used enough of this instrument so far?
there are some countries which use, for example, for tourism development, the regional competitiveness and innovation programme, the operational programme, the case of the uk or the case of greece, the operational programme for regional development. i would like to ask you whether you are considering creating a european framework to increase the participation of smes in accessing european funds for tourism.
on behalf of the s&d group one year after the tragedy that devastated haiti, as you said, the reconstruction process has not met the expectations of the people and the commitments made by the international community. moreover, the efforts to rebuild the state seem, in the light of the revolutions of the past few months, to have reached a dead end. ravaged by an earthquake and struck by a cholera epidemic blamed on the un blue helmets, the country also plunged into a serious political crisis. i think there are three plans for the haitian crisis that we need to act on in the next period, otherwise the efforts so far risk being compromised. it is necessary to announce the results of the investigation into the causes of the cholera epidemic as soon as possible, to calm the anger of the population against the un presence. secondly, the extension of the interim period which will be triggered by the end of president préval's mandate on 7 february must be avoided, and new elections, under close international supervision, are the only viable and democratic solution. finally, i believe that this moment of balance must mark a turning point in the reconstruction efforts, undermined by inefficiency, delays and conflicting interests of some countries in the region. let us not forget that of the $10 billion pledged at the new york donors conference in march 2010, only $1.2 billion has been disbursed so far, with the european union's effort accounting for a significant share. to the concern for solving the problems of the million haitians surviving in the emergency camps, where poverty, misery and sexual violence are reaching worrying proportions, we owe it to add the long-term perspective of sustainable investment in haiti and concrete support for the construction of a viable state structure.
on january 12, 2010, the haitian state was literally smashed, as several of my colleagues have said; now, a year after this terrible earthquake, reconstruction is still pending. in the meantime, the cholera epidemic, the elections, all of these complicated matters. port-au-prince is actually a huge refugee camp today. the haitian people are only surviving because of the efforts of humanitarian organizations. we should be grateful to these organizations. as the united nations special representative for this country said, haiti has become a republic of ngos. but how long can this situation last? we see that the health situation is catastrophic, the reconstruction of the education system is absolutely necessary, the process of rebuilding after the disaster, all of this evokes the need for a reconstruction of the haitian state. beyond the earthquake, the absence of institutions and good governance is very problematic today. the efforts must therefore focus on restoring the capacity of the state and on building democracy in haiti. the need for a credible and transparent electoral process, with a view to the second round of elections in february, must be emphasised very strongly. in conclusion, i would like to say that the reconstruction of haiti must be done, if i may, otherwise. 'otherwise' means that reconstruction must be done better than before, to prevent similar disasters from happening again. "otherwise" means that our rebuilding efforts must involve, i would say, local communities. i think the main stakeholders, the haitians, need to be consulted in this reconstruction process.
one year after the devastating earthquake in haiti, the concrete results of the reconstruction process are still not visible. the blockade is mainly due to the fact that the haitian state does not have the capacity to provide basic public services by its own means. the political will is lacking and the haitian authorities are failing to implement decisions aimed at reconstruction. this makes it considerably more difficult for the interim reconstruction commission, the main body responsible for the effective management of the resources released by the international community, to function. this situation will continue unless political stabilization of the country, restoration of state capacity and appointment of a functioning government is achieved. i therefore believe that the eu must make every effort to support a legitimate and transparent electoral process. the correct conduct of the second round of elections, scheduled for february, is the only way to end the political crisis.
madam president, for a long time our union has taken the path of setting target after target, but no-one looks back to see if all these targets were achieved or properly implemented. growth, jobs, a citizen-friendly union: they all tend to become eternal objectives. we are actually at the point where we should recognise the failure of at least some of our policies and of the one-size-fits-all solutions that are too often applied. to stimulate the eu’s economic growth, maybe we should start thinking outside the box and accepting the various interests and specificities of our 27 member states. the commission is proposing, and the presidency endorses, a mere coordination of our economic policies. this might turn into a trap for exactly the economic growth we are seeking, with solely macroeconomic and financial targets and policies. while we have an incomplete single market, red tape burdening companies and entrepreneurs, and a messy labour market, our eu growth might turn out to be that of a whale in a pool of barracudas – because such is the global market in today’s crisis context. with regard to other eternal objectives set out in the presidency programme, such as achieving a common energy policy, what we need is to identify energy interests and needs common to all the member states. i am not convinced that spending billions of euros on gigantic infrastructure projects is the answer. mr orbán also talked about enlargement: i hope this does not mean the hungarian approach of granting citizenship to all hungarian ethnic citizens in the neighbouring countries. is eu enlargement in a eurosceptic context and an economic crisis actually realistic? in conclusion, i wish us all good luck.
as a european and socialist citizen, i welcome your commitment to implementing a strategy for the danube, a coherent strategy for roma at european level, and as a romanian citizen i welcome your presidency's support for my country and bulgaria to join the schengen area. the hungarian presidency's debut is overshadowed by heated debate over a shameful law that undermines the union's fundamental values. it's a law that seems to be written under the political influence of horthy, kádár, antonescu or ceauşescu. this law undermines the credibility and prestige of hungary as a member state of the union and humiliates the hungarian nation, valued for its commitment to freedom. this law has been sharply criticized by two important union governments, german and french, which belong to your family. distinguished epp parliamentarians have criticised this law and suspect they will not be excluded from the epp anytime soon. it is a direction we cannot accept and we cannot allow to continue.
in writing. i congratulate hungary on its programme which prioritises economic growth and europe's place in the world. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. accession to the schengen area is a commitment romania has made with full responsibility. i have made great efforts to secure the eu's external border and, as my country's reports on its accession to the schengen area confirm, romania is ready to apply the schengen acquis. romania should be assessed fairly, according to the same criteria that were applied to the states that joined the schengen area before us. i trust the hungarian presidency to support me in this.
in writing. thank you for affirming your support for the extension of the schengen area to bulgaria and romania. it's true what you said about the effort. romania has made significant financial and human efforts. the systems implemented with the support of the franco-german eads concern are the most modern in the union. i am convinced that the maritime border of romania, for example, is incomparably better defended than similar borders of some schengen member states. all evaluation reports for romania are positive. it has fulfilled all the requirements of the schengen acquis. it is normal to expect a response in accordance with community rules. the support of the hungarian presidency is needed in this endeavour. another important item on the presidency's agenda is the promotion of the danube strategy. the danube strategy is a joint project in which all partners must fulfil their commitments to ensure the functionality and achievement of the objectives. a programme to implement the strategic priorities must be implemented without increasing the allocation of funds from the existing budget lines; the planned resources must be supplemented by the contribution of the states concerned and the possibility of relocating the unexpended funds from other segments.
in writing. i appreciate that the hungarian presidency of the council of the european union has included in its six-monthly programme support for romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area, as a tangible achievement of european integration for the citizens of the union. according to the document presented by prime minister orban victor, the hungarian presidency states: 'we want to welcome these two member states into the schengen area as soon as they fulfil all the necessary conditions'. this statement comes at a time when the discussion on the accession to schengen of the two countries that joined the eu in 2007 is moving from a strictly technical to a political register. there is already talk of a delay, even if the technical requirements are met flawlessly. that's why i think we need to make an effort to build trust. dialogue therefore remains an essential means. without it, europeans in bulgaria or romania will be left with a feeling of exclusion and discrimination. do we need second-class european citizens?
in writing. in connection with the hungarian presidency, several people objected to the carpet used as the facade of the presidency, especially the part of the map depicting the events of 1848. it's a map of europe from 1848. among other things, this indicates that hungary already in 1848 fought for the freedom of the people living there, including freedom of the press. as a transylvanian hungarian, i belong to romania today. as a citizen of this country, i would like to make a contribution to the schengen enlargement process. the 12 new member states have committed themselves to participating in the common european project in the hope of enjoying the same rights and obligations as the old member states. romania also considered that it could join the schengen area without internal borders at a predetermined date, if the relevant technical criteria were met. however, there are now voices that some member states want to impose additional conditions on romania in addition to the criteria specified in advance. i ask the hungarian presidency to do everything possible to ensure that our common rules are respected, and to draw the attention of those who express disagreement to the immeasurable negative consequences of this decision, since it is in the interest of all of us, all 27 governments, to preserve the credibility of the eu. finally, once again, the carpet is a useful accessory, a service, a foot-wiping device. it shows that the hungarian presidency's slogan 'a strong europe' is a service. we, the romanian, slovakian, european minorities are partners in this.
in writing. the hungarian presidency of the council of the eu has set itself the overall objective of strengthening the european union's institutional, economic, social and political fabric. the hungarian presidency of the council also committed itself to adopting and starting the implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region. this will be of particular importance for all danube countries and will contribute to strengthening the european integration process in the western balkans region. we look forward to the launch of the white paper on the european union's transport policy for 2011-2020, an area that is essential for economic development and for the economic and social cohesion of the union. as the debate on the future financial perspective has begun, we ask the hungarian presidency to speed up the council's debate on this document so that the ten-t review process can take into account the outcome of this debate. given that one in six people in the eu is at risk of poverty, we call on the council to make poverty reduction its top priority and to take concrete measures to this end. i also welcome the intention of the hungarian presidency to reach a political agreement on the establishment of a european framework for roma integration, as well as the intention to launch the implementation of the eu disability strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report and i thank the rapporteur for her work and proposals. i'm all for the idea that the patient should choose based on their needs and not their means, and make an informed choice without coercion. for european citizens, but especially for those in the new member states, including romania, patient mobility, rather than national waiting lists, is urgent. i also voted in favour of the idea of establishing a system of prior authorisation that is simple for patients.
in writing. − the draft legislative resolution on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the application of patients' rights in crossborder healthcare is an important document, and the adoption of the resolution would be a major step forward in the social field. the possibility for eu citizens to seek treatment anywhere in the eu will force countries with poor health systems to change their priorities and give this area the attention it deserves. in parallel, this possibility will put the various systems in direct competition, forcing them to evolve and pay due attention to the expectations and needs of patients. at the same time, it will foster the emergence of cross-border centres of medical excellence, which will also serve as platforms for the training and specialisation of students and doctors.
in writing. − i consider it useful to introduce in the directive on the payment of medical services abroad the requirement to establish a list of specific criteria and conditions for justifying the refusal by a national authority to treat a patient abroad. these conditions should take into account the possible risk to the patient or the general public, for the situation where there are several similar requests. i hope the directive will get the green light from the board to go into effect as soon as possible, for the benefit of the patients.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report presented by mrs grossetête because access to crossborder healthcare is a concrete achievement for the benefit of european citizens. many of our citizens do not have access to care in their home member state for their illnesses, so we must ensure that they can seek care anywhere in the european union and receive reimbursement for their treatment.
in writing. − we voted for this report to support european citizens by establishing clearer rules on patients' rights to seek treatment abroad, the possibility of making a choice based on their needs rather than their means, and that choice should be made in an informed manner rather than under duress. the directive lays down the following principles: patients will be able to receive in another member state, without prior authorisation, the non-hospital healthcare to which they are entitled in their own member state, and reimbursement of the corresponding costs within the limits of their own healthcare system. information is also key, so each member state will be obliged to maintain national contact points to provide patients with information on the availability of medical care, administrative procedures, complaints, remedies, etc.
in writing. − i voted today to support improved legal clarity and patient mobility in cases where people need to travel abroad to receive healthcare. ideally, no patient should have to leave their home country to get medical treatment, but in those cases where it is necessary, they should able to do so knowing what they are entitled to in terms of treatment and reimbursement. it is also important that member states' health services know their obligations, and that they retain the right to choose, manage and provide their own healthcare services as they see fit. the report addresses both of these key issues, as well as number of other important ones, including the treatment of rare diseases and european reference networks to promote exchange of best practice. the issue of cross-border healthcare has not always been easy, and i extend my thanks to the rapporteur and shadows for their hard work on this issue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cameroon on forest law enforcement as it will provide a legal framework for the legal management of logging in cameroon and its export to the eu. the objective is to eliminate the corruption underlying the illegal timber trade and to develop a set of good governance practices in this area. the involvement of civil society in the conclusion of the agreement is positive and should continue, as it provides external oversight of the progress of the process of eliminating fraud and developing sustainable trade.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis has shown that trade policy is more important than ever for developing countries. the specific characteristics of the area, given the fisheries and the activities in the fisheries sector and the industry, present the highest potential for future export growth, provided that the fishing activities are carried out in an environmentally sustainable manner. as regards aid for trade, its objective is to strengthen the capacity of developing countries to benefit from new trade opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the ec-pacific interim partnership agreement, considering that it is only a step towards negotiating a new broader partnership agreement. the european commission must also take into account that the future agreement will have to be negotiated with a larger number of countries in the region, so as not to be a source of intra-regional divisions. it should also not allow firms from third countries to benefit from a union duty exemption to the detriment of local industries, workers and incomes.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because the problem of abandoned children has become increasingly serious in the european union. it is important to protect the right to adopt internationally, to avoid these children being forced to live in orphanages. the commission must tell us what measures have been taken or will be taken at european level to protect minors who are to be adopted by european citizens. i believe that adoption should take place in accordance with national legislation and international conventions. the commission must explain how these procedures will ensure that the best interests of the child will always be protected.
in writing. − romania is the european state that probably allowed the greatest abuses in the 1990s, immediately after the fall of communism, in terms of international adoptions. and this was due to the inexperience of a state that had lived in the dark for almost half a century but also to those who were perfectly prepared to exploit these weaknesses. thus, almost a thousand children who were the subject of international adoptions have been lost to history. with the support of the european union, which we were preparing to join, romania drastically changed its adoption laws, despite immense international pressure not to resort to such a drastic measure as eliminating intercountry adoptions. in these circumstances, and judging by romania's sad experience with international adoptions, it is understandable that it is reluctant to accept a body such as a european adoption agency that leads to the creation of a true continental adoption market. any resolution on intercountry adoptions can only be aimed at the safety of minors, regardless of the interests of the states or the adopters. also, regardless of any resolution or decision, it is my personal opinion that in any legal regime, present or future, domestic adoptions must prevail.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on international adoption in the european union, based on the romanian experience in this field. it is indeed necessary to analyse all national adoption systems, to see what their strengths and weaknesses are, and to recommend best practices for adoption by member states. it would be a real step forward to coordinate policies and strategies at european level on the instrument for intercountry adoption, with a view to improving assistance in the field of information services, intercountry adoption preparation, processing of applications for intercountry adoption and post-adoption services, so that the right of orphaned and abandoned children to have a family and to be protected becomes effective.
in writing. − the cessation of international adoptions was one of the conditions for romania's accession to the european union. romania decided in 2001 to impose a moratorium on the ban on intercountry adoptions after the european parliament's rapporteur for romania, baroness emma nicholson, condemned the cases of child trafficking and criticized the romanian state for neglecting children. i believe that priority should be given, whenever possible and in the best interests of the child, to adoption in the child's country of origin as an alternative solution, which could be the finding of a foster family, personal or residential care or the finding of a family through international adoption, in accordance with relevant national legislation and international conventions, and that institutional placement should be used only as a temporary solution. it is also important to establish a methodological framework at european level to ensure that the development of the adopted child in his or her new family is assessed through periodic post-adoption reports drawn up by the social services of the state to which the adopted child has arrived and transmitted to the competent authorities of the state from which the child has been adopted. this mechanism should be achieved through coordination of actions between member states, the ec, in cooperation with the hague conference, the council of europe and child protection organisations to prevent trafficking of children for adoption.
in writing. − serbia has received an encouragement: the vote on the stabilisation and association agreement; and i hope that the ratification process will be accelerated by the vote in the european parliament today. i note that one of the problems raised in the report on the stabilisation and association agreement is related to serbia's non-recognition of the kosovo authorities and the maintenance of parallel structures. romania has not recognised kosovo's independence, which was unilaterally declared in violation of international law. serbia is a very good neighbour of romania, with which we are linked by centuries of history, and romania understands how to support its friends. it is clear that serbia's future is in europe and its cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia should demonstrate belgrade's commitment to european values, democracy and human rights. obviously serbia will have to follow the same path as all member states to join, but it must enjoy equal treatment in this respect. the latest developments have shown that serbia has understood what the european community expects of it. visible progress has been made and the eu must tactfully address some aspects of belgrade's recent history that are weighing on the serbian people.
in writing. − the european union is based on principles such as reconciliation and peaceful coexistence, with the same objectives of improving relations between the peoples of the region. in this context, i believe that serbia's future lies with the eu countries and i believe that serbia must step up its efforts in this direction.
in writing. - i voted for this report and this is not the first time i have spoken here about my reasons for doing so, including my own. the western balkans and serbia are not only an area of strategic interest for the union, it is not only the citizens of this area who need us. we all need them. the union is serbia's main trading partner and that says a lot. serbia has a unique situation in europe, it is the country with the largest number of refugees and displaced persons. i am convinced that the acceleration of serbia's integration process is beneficial for the entire western balkans region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the integration of serbia. one important reason is that serbia can become an important player in ensuring security and stability in the region. at the same time, constructive strategies on regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are key elements of the stabilisation and association process. all of these are key factors in the process of transforming the western balkans into an area of long-term stability and sustainable development. serbia's eu integration process is also being encouraged by progress in the reform process. serbia's efforts in the field of minority protection are commendable, even if access to information and education in minority languages needs to be further improved, especially for the romanian minority, which has been severely discriminated against over the last century. progress in promoting gender equality is also remarkable, in particular the adoption of the gender equality act and the national action plan for the empowerment of women and the promotion of gender equality.
in writing. - i support the rapporteur and i voted in favour of her proposal. alzheimer's disease is becoming more common and affects more and more people, all the more so as the ratio between the working population and the retired population continues to decline. changes in behavior and personality make the sick dependent on others. what the rapporteur is proposing is better coordination between the member states, solidarity and support for the people affected, but also for those involved.
in writing. − alzheimer's disease strikes everywhere equally, and the fact that scientific progress has failed to diagnose it before it starts or to find a cure makes it all the more important to find solutions to improve the lives of those who suffer from it. over 8 million europeans suffer from neurodegenerative diseases and the prognosis is not encouraging in 30 years the number of patients will double. this calls for improved coordination between member states, as well as a more effective, more solidarity-based response to prevent and treat people affected by dementia, particularly alzheimer's, and to support those around them. for a european strategy in this area to be successful, all countries must give priority to the development of national action plans. we also need to focus on early diagnosis and prevention and on the collection and processing of epidemiological data on the disease. after these fundamental steps, integrated measures are needed from research to the provision of healthcare. it is important to address gaps in areas such as vocational training or family support and to work towards raising awareness of the problems associated with living with dementia.
in writing. − the adoption of the report on a european initiative on alzheimer's disease is an important step in the fight against the disease, given that the number of people in europe suffering from dementia is 9.9 million, with alzheimer's patients representing the largest proportion of the population. the adoption of this report will enable member states to take coordinated action to combat this disease in the european union. i see a potential solution in the efficient use of the resources of the europe 2020 'innovation union' pilot initiative and the 'healthy and active ageing pilot partnership', due to be launched this spring. given that the number of alzheimer's patients is expected to increase dramatically by 2020, it is necessary to develop both public-institutional partnerships and public-private partnerships in the implementation of research projects in the future, thus leveraging facilities, resources and expertise from both the private and public sectors to combat the effects of alzheimer's disease and other dementias.
in writing. − this report is a fundamental step towards the formulation of a european strategy in this area, based on four key objectives: promoting early diagnosis and quality of life; improving epidemiological knowledge of this disease and coordinating existing research; supporting solidarity between member states through the exchange of best practices; and respecting the rights of people affected by dementia and their carers. every year 1.4 million citizens living in europe develop some form of dementia. a new case is diagnosed every 24 seconds. nearly one in 20 people over 65 and one in five over 80 suffer from dementia. it is estimated that over 8 million europeans aged 30 to 99 suffer from neurodegenerative diseases (alzheimer's - half), and scientists predict a doubling of this number every 20 years. as there are inequalities in access to diagnosis and treatment, not only from one country to another but also within the same country, it is necessary to develop national action plans, focusing on solidarity oriented towards the prevention and treatment of people affected by dementia, in particular alzheimer's, and supporting the people around the patients (healthcare professionals, service providers or relatives).
in writing. − the situation in haiti has become very serious, as all the efforts of the international community have not led to an improvement in the situation of this state, devastated by civil war and natural disasters, now affected by a cholera epidemic. last year's devastating earthquake brought haiti into the world's public eye, but despite concerted efforts amid a wave of strong emotion, things are not looking good. that is why perhaps the most important part of the resolution adopted by the european parliament is the call to the un to reconsider the mandate of minustah in haiti, in the wake of the epidemic and the tensions generated by the recent elections, which are strongly contested domestically and whose fairness the international community has serious doubts about. the poor population of the small state is actually the big loser of all these problems. it is crucial that the un be and remain at the forefront of coordinating all civil and military operations, both to restore security and humanitarian aid and to rebuild and develop. the entire international community, and even more so the european union, must put its involvement in haiti's reconstruction at the top of its agenda before it is too late for its people.
in writing. − it is important for the people of haiti that the european union stands in solidarity with them following the catastrophe that has affected them, resulting in significant loss of life and material damage. i therefore welcome europe's decision to commit to helping financially the reconstruction process in this country with some 1.2 billion euros and the proposal of the eu high representative for foreign affairs, catherine ashton, to adopt an economic plan for the next 10 years, focusing also on development and growth in the area, in addition to the reconstruction of the country. it is an important decision, especially as the eu is one of the caribbean country's most important donors. however, i believe that community funds should be distributed on the basis of criteria similar to those applied in the member states, namely on the basis of concrete programmes for the reconstruction of houses, schools, roads and other infrastructure, as well as the granting of microcredit to stimulate the development and launch of micro-projects for economic recovery, following the model existing in the eu for micro-enterprises. after world war ii, the united states implemented the marshall plan, which was instrumental in the reconstruction of western europe. europe can launch a similar programme for haiti.
mr president, the plight of christians in the middle east, asia and africa is no accident. this is not a series of regrettable but uncoordinated attacks. on the contrary, it is classic mass persecution. the christians are intimidated, evicted or killed with a clear purpose: religious cleansing. this is happening as we here in europe are bending over backwards to accommodate the endless sensibilities of muslim believers. the result is a europe full of mosques and the middle east purged of christians. but this is not about numbers. it is about liberty and identity. even for those among us who do not believe, christianity should be more than a forgotten, exotic and diminishing sect. we are free to believe or not, but we are not free to see our freedoms abused. this approach means that we should make religious freedom a precondition in our relations with sovereign states. this approach should be inscribed into law and become part of the high representative’s mandate.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i wanted, if i might, to pick up two or three of the many strands of ideas which have been given to me – first of all to thank honourable members and to recognise the strength of feeling and expression of support for some of the work that we are seeking to do in this area. as i have already indicated, part of the reason i was very pleased to be able to participate in this debate is that this has been raised once before with the foreign affairs council – but we will come back to it at the end of january – and the concerns that honourable members have made have resonated and echoed with the concerns which have been raised with me from a variety of different sources, not least from some of the member states and some of the ministers who have been most concerned about these issues. i want to make it clear that i did in fact talk about christianity. i began by expressing the reasons i had for specifically going to bethlehem, and that was to recognise that although i was in the middle east i was also in the heart, in a sense, of many religions – specifically on the eve of the orthodox christmas. that was a very powerful statement in itself and it was a very personal and deliberate act to do that. i know that, unfortunately, mr mauro is no longer in his place to hear my reply, but i hope that he is told that i did in my words indeed mention that. i want to just pick up two or three things. a number of honourable members have raised the question of how we use the tools that are available to us to ensure that these issues can be addressed. i want to remind honourable members that almost all of the trade and cooperation agreements which we have concluded since 1995 have included a human rights clause, and that exists in agreements with, i believe now, 134 countries. the principal purpose is to demonstrate the shared commitment to human rights which we have, but it also constitutes the legal basis for sanctions in the event of grave human rights violations. honourable members will remember that in my previous capacity it was i who raised the issue of ‘gsp plus’ and sri lanka. you will know that we have taken steps to suspend them from that scheme, specifically on the grounds of issues of human rights. it is very important, as honourable members have said, that we continue to look at the way in which we conclude agreements and the tools at our disposal to do that and to make sure that those levers are pulled if necessary. one of the things that i think will be very interesting as the commission begins to look at the future of the gsp regulation is to see whether aspects of that regulation that concern the ratification and implementation of human rights and conventions could be improved. i also wanted to put the other side of that, which is of course the instruments that we use to promote and support democracy in human rights. we are, as honourable members know, supporting projects worldwide in the fight against racism, xenophobia or discrimination on any ground. we have funded anti-discrimination ngos in some 60 countries. therefore, we strike a balance between using the tools at our disposal to ensure that we are able to demonstrate when we feel very strongly that this has been violated, and using those tools – combined with the willingness that we have and the availability that we have – to support those ngos, in particular those that are active in the field of anti-discrimination. i wanted also to just touch on one other area, and that is the role of the delegations across the world and the role of monitoring what is happening. a number of honourable members indeed raised this as a particular point. i have already said that i think it is really important that we monitor the issues across the world. i was particularly struck by one issue that honourable members talked about in a number of contributions and what, in a sense, has become very much more recognised in recent weeks and months but which nonetheless has been a concern to many honourable members for a very long time: the concern about the way in which religious people, of all kinds of religion, are treated or discriminated against on a regular basis across the world and our need to be mindful and watchful of those issues, not when they become violent – when they become violent in a sense we are of course bound to act – but before they become violent too, when this is a regular source of discrimination. i think it is important that we see our delegations across the world as a source of being able to see and recognise the kind of discrimination that honourable members feel ‘bubbles below the surface’, if i can use that expression, and notify us when they see it. i also think it is important, as i have indicated that we put forward at the last foreign affairs council, that in our human rights work and in the report that we produced we are also addressing the situation of religious minorities across the world. christianity has played a very important part in our discussions today but many honourable members have pointed out that this also needs to apply in ensuring that we have respect and tolerance for other faiths in everything that we do. i think it will be important to try and get a sense of what is really happening both through our monitoring in our reports and also through our delegations across the world. that i think will give us a greater sense of knowing how then to use the instruments that are available to us, particularly from the commission side; but also a sense of the political will, not just from me, but – as you have rightly pointed out – as parliamentarians you have a strong voice and a strong role in this, together with the member states and the ministers involved in the member states. as i began, i said that i am committed to trying to make sure that we use what we have better, that we monitor carefully what is happening and that we use the political and economic instruments at our disposal to keep this at the heart of our agenda for the future, and i am very grateful for all the contributions. to those whose comments and questions i have not answered: it is not lack of will, i will consider them very carefully, and all of this will feed into the debate that we will have at the foreign affairs council at the end of january.
in writing. innocent victims have been struck by a criminal act of irresponsible people, a crime that has nothing to do with any religion or moral principle. we, the citizens of the european union, support and promote religious freedom and have a duty to stress that it must be respected, protected and promoted as a fundamental human right. and terrorism, in all of this context, is trying to create noise and conflict through attacks that try to legitimize themselves by appealing to a religious substrate. i want to emphasize that terrorism has no religion and that is why any kind of fundamentalist thinking must be left at the gates of mosques, churches and synagogues. the world's religions do not promote sordid attacks, and the people who engage in such attacks should not think that they are fighting for something. on the contrary, in my opinion, they fight against morality, against their fellow men, against humanity itself.
the kidnapping and subsequent murder of antoine de lecour and vincent delory in niger is a painful reminder of the need to implement a strategy to promote security, stability and good governance in the sahel region. the epp group has been a long-standing supporter of such a strategy and i would like to welcome, in this context, the announcement by the european commission that it will present, by the end of this month, a strategy combining security and development aspects. i believe that we really need to look at the question of security in the sahel in all its dimensions, because if terrorism has succeeded in establishing itself in this region, it is also because it has found there political conditions, first and foremost social, and of course, economic conditions. it's about very permeable borders, the absence of effective government control. all of this has obviously allowed the proliferation of illicit trafficking and, in addition, there are development deficiencies. for the security of the sahel and, by implication, of european citizens, i believe that two elements are very useful. first, a strategy for the sahel-saharan region, aimed at restoring the authority of the states in the area over the abandoned territories and, of course, the construction of a state governed by the rule of law. and secondly, i think we need to start joint socio-economic development programmes in border areas to create job opportunities for the local people.
the deterioration of security in the sahel region is no longer a regional problem; unfortunately, it has become a european union problem, with the intensification of attacks on european citizens. the sahel is facing, first and foremost, the ever-increasing terrorist threat, whose victims are primarily europeans, who are being kidnapped and killed with alarming frequency. it is also a transit area for drugs and arms trafficking, as well as a corridor for illegal migration to europe. i believe that there is a need to strengthen concrete cooperation with the north african authorities in order to improve the involvement of the armed forces and security forces in the region in the fight against terrorism. we also have a number of tools at our disposal politically to stimulate regional cooperation to counter this threat. i hope that the european union's technical assistance efforts will be more focused on supporting the development process, because we cannot ignore the fact that terrorist groups find fertile ground in the sahel, particularly because of the poverty of the population and the fragility of state authority. i believe that increased and properly targeted development aid can play a key role in improving the situation in the area.
mr president, alexander lukashenko has never missed an opportunity to prove himself a dictator. the december elections were actually a ritual of re-appointment. but we in the eu clung to the illusion that lukashenko would miraculously change. indeed we said we would wait for the december elections. the elections came and lukashenko remains the same and the opposition is either in hospital or in jail. i think it is time for the eu to reconsider its approach to belarus. clearly there is no place for belarus in the eastern partnership. belarus should be suspended. our only partner should be civil society. i await the results of the foreign affairs council on 31 january and i hope that both lady ashton and commissioner füle recommend suspension. finally, regarding the implications for the euronest parliamentary assembly, we can no longer give lukashenko a veto on euronest. belarus was used to block euronest. therefore, the conclusion is that euronest should be launched as a matter of urgency.
the presidential elections on 19 december were a setback both for belarus' democratic development and in its relations with the eu. the use of force and the arrest of opposition representatives is in no way a method of resolving political conflicts. on the contrary, denying the opposition the right to be represented in parliament has the effect of amplifying social tensions. in this context, i believe that the authoritarian regime in minsk is not entitled to benefit from the advantages of the eastern partnership. moreover, belarus has not confirmed its commitment to this policy, as have other countries in the region, notably georgia and the republic of moldova. thus, the suspension of belarus from the eastern partnership would constitute a direct and visible sanction of the government. i hope that the next foreign affairs council will also mention such sanctions in its common position.
libya is the third largest supplier of oil and gas to the european union, and the union is libya's main trading partner, accounting for over two thirds of its total trade. we must also take into account the progress made by the authorities in tripoli, who have succeeded in moving from isolation and embargo to openness and economic and diplomatic dynamism. but the european union is not just a community of economic interests, it is based on a set of values that we cannot abdicate in the name of pragmatism. true, libya is no longer a sponsor of terrorism, it has abandoned its nuclear program, accepted compensation payments for the families of victims of terrorist attacks, released bulgarian nurses sentenced to death for spreading hiv, and made agreements with some european countries. i think we should encourage this progress, but the partnership between the european union and libya needs a solid moral foundation. in this respect, mrs gomes' report, which i congratulate on its work, highlights the serious shortcomings in the respect for human rights that we must combat. last year, we passed a resolution calling on libya to abandon the death penalty. i think it is time to renew this call for abolition, coupled with the call for respect for international norms of legal fairness, especially as foreigners are the victims of abuse. special attention should be paid to the problem of migrants and refugees, both those extradited by libya to their countries of origin, where their lives are exposed to serious threats, and those returned by italy to libya, where they risk harsh reprisals. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised agencies for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. as regards the readmission agreement, as part of the eu-libya framework agreement, i ask the council to abandon this intention, as it would be repatriation to a country that is a systematic violator of human rights. the policy of the berlusconi government cannot be accepted as a model, and the italian exception must not become the european rule.
i also think it is important to reformulate directive 85/2005, because the setting of minimum standards for the asylum procedure must become fairer and more efficient. the proposed amendment should aim at simplifying and strengthening procedures at eu level. the standards provided must be based on best practices identified in the eu area. although all member states officially grant the right to seek asylum, problems arise with national access systems. in their present form, they vary considerably from one state to another. this raises a number of administrative problems which need to be addressed through a common approach. i also ask the council to provide as much information as possible on the current situation in the member states. it is important that we resume negotiations on this matter and that we reach a result within the deadline.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of vice-president almunia, who is unable to be here this morning, i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, mr eppink, for his work on the report on competition policy 2009. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs in the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and the committee on transport, ms koch-mehrin, mr buşoi and mr cramer. the commission welcomes the positive tone of the report and the support expressed for our actions in the field of competition policy in 2009, in particular in the context of the economic and financial crisis. we share your view that competition is essential to ensure a level playing field in the single market and to promote a sustainable exit from the crisis. this is why the commission remains committed to enforcing its firm stance on anti-competitive behaviour and mergers. the commission takes note of the many requests for specific reports or studies – more than 10 of them. it is not feasible for the commission to produce all these reports, due to our priorities and limited resources. however, as vice-president almunia announced to the committee on economic and monetary affairs in november, the commission will analyse the effects on competition of the temporary state aid measures taken in the context of the crisis. this work will be difficult, but the crisis is a learning opportunity we simply cannot miss. secondly, i would like to restate here that these measures are indeed temporary. the commission prolonged the crisis framework for state aid until the end of 2011 because the economic conditions are still uncertain. however, the gradual phasing-out of these measures has already started. some measures have been terminated and others have been maintained under stricter conditions. thirdly, as regards private enforcement of competition rules, the commission takes note of parliament’s support for the creation of a european form of collective redress, and of its request for specific eu legislation to ensure compensation for victims of infringements of eu antitrust law. the commission will launch a public consultation at the beginning of 2011 on a european approach to collective redress. it then plans to adopt a communication based on the results of this. finally, i would like to refer to the concerns expressed about competition in specific sectors, such as energy, transport, the food supply chain and emerging digital industries. the commission shares your concerns, and we will maintain our strong enforcement activities in these fields in close cooperation with the national competition authorities.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the commission on its flexibility in applying the competition rules during the current financial and economic crisis. it is very important that the crisis is not used as a pretext to eliminate competition, and the commission has already shown a very firm attitude against cartels, which is a good thing. we need to make sure that there are exit mechanisms and that we come back to normal market conditions as soon as possible. there are some areas – and you spoke about that, commissioner – where competition can be enhanced. these include the energy market, where regulated energy prices still distort competition; the completion of the single railway market can also bring important benefits to european travellers. the commission should also be particularly careful concerning competition on the medicines market, especially with regard to those practices of originator producers which restrict the entry of generic medicines. furthermore, i call on the commission to be firm in securing competition between public and private hospitals by means of bold action against cross-subsidies which favour public hospitals. the commission needs to communicate the benefits of competition policy to consumers more effectively.
competition policy is a key element in ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy, and state aid control is an integral part of it. at the same time, in the context of the crisis, the european commission had to approve the granting of state aid, in particular to the banking sector, but also to other sectors that were in difficulty. member states have thus provided substantial amounts in the form of guarantee schemes, recapitalisation schemes and other forms of liquidity financing to banks in order to provide them with a source of funding and a guarantee against risks. the european commission must, however, monitor the sector closely and present plans for the restructuring and regulation of financial institutions to ensure that they do not continue to engage in risky behaviour that endangers the financial stability of the european union. otherwise, the state aid only contributes to perpetuating the financial difficulties in the european union.
what i would like to stress is the importance of drawing up clear competition rules which are favourable and useful to smes. they are of particular importance for the whole european economy and have, in addition, a huge potential for innovation. in this context, i think it would be appropriate to include a chapter dedicated to small enterprises, with a focus on fair competition. competition policy should contribute to the promotion and enforcement of open standards and interoperability. this would prevent a technological blockade by market players. i would like to conclude by saying that the implementation of a successful competition policy and the smooth functioning of the internal market are essential conditions for sustainable economic growth in the european union. a technological lock-in is exercised
i would first like to congratulate my colleague michael gahler on the excellent report he has presented. the report encourages the council and the commission to devise a specific union policy for the arctic, while stressing that iceland's possible accession to the european union would make the union one of the arctic's neighbouring entities. as the rapporteur for this parliament on iceland, i would like to stress that this country has priorities compatible with the european union in the arctic. it's about strengthening the arctic council politically and administratively, it's about sustainable development of the region, and finally, i would remind you, it's about supporting the rights of indigenous peoples. the fact that both iceland and the european union are currently in the process of defining an arctic strategy may also provide an opportunity for coordination of the two policies, inter alia, with regard to the european union's candidacy for the position of permanent observer in the arctic council. in conclusion, i would say that it is clear that the european union can contribute to effective multilateral governance in the far north. i would also like to tell mr. søndergaard that i was very attentive to what he said about the majority in iceland. i think we are facing a long process, which may see many changes. we are, i believe, in a position to encourage a responsible candidacy and a balanced debate, first and foremost, in this country, about the european union.
rapporteur. − madam president, exactly three years ago the european parliament endorsed the black sea synergy. this was the first step towards a coherent policy in one of the most sensitive areas in europe, and it was a step in the right direction because the black sea is now widely analysed – and feared – as a converging space of political, strategic and security hopes, strengths and ambitions. today our policy in the area can be further developed. this house can play a crucial role in upgrading eu policies to a fully-fledged eu strategy. this is actually the main idea in the report i initiated with the support of my colleagues from the foreign affairs committee and parliament as a whole. but why a new report on the black sea and why an eu strategy for the black sea? some people would say that the black sea is a small sea. indeed it is, but if we exchange this map for a strategy map, the black sea becomes huge. there is also another factor: the black sea is getting blacker and blacker. since the accession of bulgaria and romania, the black sea is now partially an internal eu sea. however, developments in the region are often unpredictable: tensions accumulate and misunderstandings abound. a summary analysis of the black sea region leads to the conclusion that the negative challenges in this area persist or are, indeed, gaining in intensity. the georgia-russia war of 2008, the unsolved and so-called ‘frozen’ conflicts, and the worrying deterioration of democratic rule in ukraine and russia are all very serious developments and vivid examples of the security risks in the area. if we examine the current results of eu involvement in the region, they seem at least mixed. the eu policy approach towards the black sea lacks mechanisms for monitoring, evaluation and follow-up. the black sea region is not visible enough in debates in brussels, and eu funding for the region is fragmented and complicated. while building upon the merits of the black sea synergy which we adopted three years ago, a new eu strategy for the black sea should put in place a stronger policy and concrete tools. let me mention just two of the recommendations in the report. the first concerns adequate resources: if the eu wants to play a key role in the black sea region, it needs to devote adequate resources, both financial and human. the creation of a separate budget line in the eu budget is vital. the second recommendation is for the elaboration of an eu action plan with clear objectives and tasks, including regular ministerial-level meetings of the relevant countries. the eu strategy for the black sea should not underestimate, or overestimate, any state in the area. the principles of inclusiveness and regional ownership should be reflected in an important role for turkey and russia, but also for all the regional partners, in the success of regional cooperation. to conclude, i should like to thank all my colleagues for their very positive contributions to the final version of this report. i think we all agree that this house expects the commission and the council to turn this report into reality. the strategic and beneficial involvement of the eu in the black sea region should become a fact.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − the itre commission supports the full integration of energy markets and the regulatory framework, based on eu legislation, and encourages the participation of the states of the wider black sea region in the energy charter treaty, as well as eu, eib and ebrd assistance in upgrading the energy infrastructure in the region. we underline the european added value and the importance of the southern gas corridor for improving the security of supply of the european union. projects such as nabucco, a priority for the european union, alongside the trans adriatic pipeline, the pan-european oil pipeline, the turkey-greece-italy interconnection and the azerbaijan-georgia-romania interconnection, highlight both the importance of the eu's commitments in the black sea region and the further need to step up cooperation between the countries in the region. we stress the importance of creating a regional research and education network in the wider black sea region and connecting it to geant and invite the commission to continue to support research projects in the region. i would like to conclude, madam president, by asking the commission to develop a european union strategy for the region, accompanied by an action plan, and we stress the need to link this strategy to the european union strategy for the danube region.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − madam president, commissioner, the importance of the black sea region for the eu from the transport, energy, stability, security and environmental point of view is evident. it is for this reason that the eu strategy for this region will certainly have a very positive impact on the area and on the eu as a whole. the committee on regional development believes this strategy can bring growth and sustainable development for the region. but also it is of the opinion that for full effectiveness it is necessary to involve all the states of the region, no matter whether they are member states or not. this strategy needs actions to be coordinated – but how could this coordination exist without the proper involvement of all countries? coordination is certainly needed with the danube strategy, which is soon supposed to become a major priority of the hungarian presidency. the use of an integrated approach and cross-border cooperation between the regions should be promoted in all fields of the strategy but in particular those of transport, energy and the environment.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the black sea is a gate to and from europe, and therefore it should be addressed as such. it is not a far distant place of little relevance which occasionally comes to our attention. the truth is that the area has already put – and will continue to put – items on our agenda, be it through the interruption of gas transit as in 2006 and 2008, or the georgian war in 2008. however, in spite of the evidence and its recognised importance, the black sea area still does not enjoy the attention it deserves from the eu – an eu which was, in a way, compelled to address these problems once bulgaria and romania had become members in 2007. the black sea synergy, elaborated not long after the admission of those two countries, appears to have been, in retrospect, a hastily put together document designed to cover a ‘blank spot’ or ‘black hole’ – depending on your preference – which the eu had to deal with almost overnight. the fact that nothing of importance has happened since the first review of the initiative in 2008 – and we are not very far advanced in its implementation as mentioned in the report – is indicative of that. to my mind, there are two main reasons for this. first, there is an apparent disinterest and unwillingness on the part of eu members to address the area decisively. moreover, now that money is short, there is even less willingness to do so than before. secondly, the initial assumption on which the synergy was based, namely that the area should become a coherent and cooperative region in order to qualify for eu attention and material support, has ignored the simple truth that just 20 years ago the area looked completely different. to expect an area so complex and different to become coherent and get an individual identity in such a short time is either unrealistic or – i hate to say – ill-intended. perhaps, in the context of a revisiting of the eastern partnership, things would improve.
madam president, i should like to start by congratulating mr ungureanu on his initiative in carrying out the report on the black sea. i also welcome the endorsement of several of the previous speakers, my distinguished colleagues, who have committed themselves to promoting a new european vision for the black sea region. the black sea has indeed become a partially internal sea of the european union. its geostrategic importance can hardly be overstated, considering the regional stability, the democratisation processes, and the related energy security, economic and commercial issues. i strongly believe that we, the eu, should benefit from the potential of the black sea region and not others. to achieve this goal, the european union has to rely more on its member states belonging to the region, has to give up any anchorage in the past and has to show more dynamism, leadership and vision. without touching on the issues related to the enlargement process, i would like to address a message to all the black sea sceptics. any slowdown in the eu integration process of the region will have a throwback effect on the democratic evolution of the area. the risk is medium and long-term instability, whose implications would be hard to evaluate, and even harder to manage, for the european union. in conclusion, the eu needs its internal black sea and we need an integrated strategy for this region. the black sea strategy should be drafted by the commission, relying on the recommendations reached by our rapporteur. today this house should offer its wholehearted support for the strategy.
madam president, since 2007 we have acknowledged the importance of the black sea region, yet the impact of our approach has been modest to say the least: no concrete projects, no concrete results. we need a realistic and financially sound action plan with clear objectives, priority actions and benchmarks, and a better division of tasks and coordination with the eastern partnership and the danube strategy. we need to launch the energy and transport partnership alongside the environment partnership. only through such a project-based approach, focused on small-scale specific projects, can we overcome the issue of the very diverse and complex interests in the region. we need to get past our fragmented approach in terms of finance as well. so far, we have had various financial instruments and little visibility. that is why we should make the black sea joint operational programme our central instrument for implementing the black sea strategy, using it as seed money to attract institutions ready to invest in the region and hence promote cooperation.
the black sea region is of strategic importance to the european union. however, we note the lack of a structured approach to this region. no action plan has been drawn up for the black sea synergy and funding is provided through a number of uncoordinated instruments. it is therefore imperative to create a union strategy for the black sea, with the same priority as the other regional strategies of the european union and focused on three main lines: economic, social and human development; energy, transport and environment, and security and good governance. some key projects for the european economy, such as the nabucco pipeline, which would allow for greater energy independence, or the development of ports on the black sea, need to be boosted immediately and this can only be achieved under the aegis of a common strategy.
first of all, i would like to congratulate rapporteur ungureanu on the excellent work he has done on this report of great importance, both geopolitically and economically. the region has significant energy production and supply potential and needs to be given more attention, in particular to ensure the union's energy security. given that the eu's efforts have not been sufficiently well-defined and the black sea synergy has not reached its full potential, i express my hope that the european external action service will have the necessary human and material resources to complete the implementation of the three partnerships: environment, transport and energy. i believe that the european union must not neglect this region, but on the contrary, must make its presence felt through consistent and long-term actions that allow the development opportunities to be exploited.
the black sea is important to the european union for its strategic position, but also for the economic opportunities it offers and the conditions for stronger regional development. the strategy for this area is beneficial in contributing to the diversification of economic activities between the coastal states, the intensification of cooperation in education and research, and the intensification of cooperation in the region, for an important protection of natural resources. i believe that the european union should encourage the countries of the black sea area to make appropriate use of natural environmental resources, to develop the area sustainably and to improve the quality of life in the area, and to build local and regional partnerships.
member of the commission. − madam president, at this point i shall make just three remarks. the first i have expressed already at the beginning of our debate, which is appreciation for this timely report on the black sea region. second, let me welcome the clear evidence, as shown in our debate, of the importance you attribute to this special region, which is shared by the external action service and the commission. my third remark is that i am looking forward to cooperation with the house on the black sea strategy and its subsequent implementation.
rapporteur. − madam president, i am very lucky i can be short, not only because of the noise but also because i was lucky enough to be supported on both sides, largely speaking, of this house. i think that, as mr brok stressed in his brilliant remarks, the report which we are preparing to vote on today is a very good example of cross-party cooperation in this house; i have to give special thanks to mr paşcu, who proved to be a very active and honest supporter of this report. i do not want to bring in other names, as this would be unjust because everybody had something important to say regarding this report: regarding the uniqueness of the black sea space, regarding its fragility as well and regarding the need to exercise caution when we formulate policy in the black sea area. of course, it is vital to remark on the necessity of the nabucco project and its pan-european importance. i would also like to thank commissioner füle for his remarks, especially for mentioning the maritime dimension, which the commission is shaping right now and, of course, for making the necessary link between the black sea strategy and the danube strategy.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr traian ungureanu, on the drafting of this report of particular importance for romania. my country is the most active eu member in promoting the strategic importance of the black sea and the need for an increased role for the union in this area. the importance of the region has been reflected in several eu instruments for the eastern neighbourhood, but the results of the black sea synergy have been limited. i believe that the eu's priorities must be to strengthen a stable and democratic area. frozen conflicts have become the nerve center of the black sea region. they can be reactivated at any time, threatening regional security. the black sea is also of particular importance for the eu's energy security. the european commission must continue to place particular emphasis on energy projects planned in this region.
in writing. confusing objectives and overlapping forms of cooperation risk draining the eu's black sea strategy of its substance. things tend not to improve because of the diversity of the status of the countries involved in relation to the european union, the often divergent interests of the actors in this cooperation and because of a lack of vision, also present in the ungureanu report. if we want to speed up the resolution of the frozen conflicts in the region, we have to start from the fact that this has been long delayed by the competition between the sponsors of the various plans, and things have been training for more than 15 years. and this competition betrays their divergent interests, most often linked, explicitly or implicitly, to control of the energy transport routes in the area. in my view, things will only become clear once it is very clear what will happen with turkey's accession to the eu and what status russia will have in relation to the union. only this clarification will lead to the resolution of frozen conflicts and the long-term stabilization of the area.
in writing. we are discussing today an important project for the future of the european union from several points of view. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu has brought added value through access to the black sea, a region that also brings together states in the union's neighbourhood, including strategic partners. by developing a common strategy for the black sea, we will take significant steps towards creating an area of stability, security, democracy and prosperity. in this context, we can consider the joint and integrated initiatives of the countries of the region as a preliminary step towards the reunification of our continent. as a romanian, but also as a member of the committee on regional development, i support the correlation of the future black sea strategy with the danube strategy, recently launched by the european commission. i believe that there is a need for greater eu involvement in the black sea area and cooperation with third countries, as our regions are interconnected in terms of territory and economy. in this way, we will ensure more energy security for the future by implementing infrastructure projects such as the southern corridor or liquefied gas terminals, diversifying supply routes and sources. we must also give due importance to linking the financial instruments available to the black sea region, ensuring the development and modernisation of ports and reducing pollution in the black sea region.
mr president, i would like to move an oral amendment to paragraph 13. after the second sentence, which reads, ‘is convinced that an institutional dialogue bringing together the eu and the bsec could constitute a step towards creating a genuine partnership in the region’, i would suggest including the following sentence, ‘to this end, calls for a joint working group between the european parliament’s committee on foreign affairs and the parliamentary assembly of the bsec to be established’. this would provide us with a proper instrument with which to put in place the general idea, which apparently is agreed. i have talked to the rapporteur, who seems to support and accept this amendment.
as in the case of belarus, i wanted to justify my vote on the union's black sea strategy by saying, first of all, that my colleague traian ungureanu's idea of preparing an own-initiative report comes at a very opportune time, when the european union is strengthening its regional policy by formulating strategies for the neighbouring areas, such as the baltic sea, the far north and, here, the black sea. i also want to express my satisfaction at the inclusion of my proposed amendments in the text of the resolution. these amendments stressed the need to create a network of ngos in the area, to encourage programmes promoting intercultural and interreligious dialogue and initiatives such as the black sea university network. all of these are good examples, i think, of how the interaction of civil societies can bring about positive synergies in the region. finally, i would like to stress the need to strike a balance between economic development and environmental protection, but also the need to fully implement the convention on the protection of the black sea against pollution. i hope that this initiative, adopted today by parliament, will also receive the attention it deserves from the council, which should treat it as a priority issue on the european agenda.
in writing. - the increase in attacks on christians requires a common position to protect them. increasing religious tolerance requires that governments ensure that the perpetrators of attacks are identified and brought to justice in accordance with legal procedures. the protection of christians must be based on respect for every faith equally. since respect for human rights and civil liberties, including freedom of religion or belief, are fundamental principles and objectives of the european union and a common basis for relations with third countries, support for any initiative to promote dialogue and mutual respect between religious and other communities should be reaffirmed. last but not least, religious authorities are asked to promote tolerance and take initiatives against hatred, violent radicalisation and extremism.
in writing. − the decision of the belarusian authorities to terminate the mission of the osce office in belarus is regrettable; they are invited to withdraw this decision immediately. in the same vein, it is reprehensible to block several important websites on election day. the legislation on media in force in belarus does not meet international standards and therefore the belarusian authorities are invited to review and amend it. the assessment of the political situation in belarus has revealed a serious breach of democratic rights and rules. consequently, we can only condemn the repression of peaceful protesters, democratic opposition leaders, as well as numerous civil society activists, journalists, teachers and students.
in writing. − one of the principles of the treaty on european union is that member states must adopt an economic policy in accordance with the principles of an open market economy based on fair competition. competition policy aims to create real competition in the common market by measures relating to market structures and the behaviour of market players. free competition encourages innovation, reduces production costs, increases economic efficiency and, as a result, raises the level of competitiveness of the european economy. the report covers both antitrust and state aid control policies. it also includes rules and procedures to combat anti-competitive behaviour by companies and to prevent governments from granting state aid that distorts competition in the internal market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that competition policy is a key instrument for the european union to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market, to be globally competitive and also to overcome the financial crisis. when competition policy is effectively applied, consumers benefit the most.
in writing. − the competition policy report is an important document, which underlines that in times of crisis it is essential to ensure financial stability, to restore credit flows, but above all to ensure that all conditions and checks and controls are in place for markets to function properly. on the other hand, under such circumstances, the competition rules must be applied flexibly, where necessary, without compromising the principles underlying policies in this field. let us not forget that amidst the crisis there have been many calls for the introduction of protectionist policies, which would only deepen and prolong the crisis. competition policy is a key instrument for the eu to have a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market that is globally competitive; the report's observations and recommendations on sectoral competition policies and on the purpose and destination of state aid are therefore welcome.
in writing. − 2009 was a difficult year for the european union and beyond, marked by a particularly severe financial and economic crisis. the negative effects were felt on the economy and the business environment as well as on decision-makers. while policymakers tried to devise policies that would minimise the impact of the crisis on the real economy, the european commission, together with the member states and central banks, worked hard to stabilise the financial system. this year's report pays particular attention to these issues and welcomes the commission's rapid response and successful use of competition policy measures. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs a sound competition policy, based on the principle of open markets and fair competition in all sectors, which will create a successful internal market and foster the creation of sustainable and knowledge-based jobs.
in writing. −the effects of climate change are affecting the arctic region more than any other area. the consequences of environmental and climate change, the geopolitics of shipping lanes and the security of supply of resources must be addressed. given that the expansion of new economies leads to an increase in the need for resources, energy and minerals, it is natural that the eu should be interested in ensuring the security of supply of resources and energy needed by europe's population and industrial activities. as regards the geopolitical configuration, it will undergo significant changes if iceland's eu accession negotiations are successful. iceland's accession would also strengthen the eu's presence in the region. the eu can make a significant contribution to the sustainable development of the arctic, a region that will be of major importance to a world adapting to climate change, faced with a growing population and resource scarcity.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe it is extremely important for the black sea region and for the eu. the black sea synergy talks started in 2007. the proposal for the danube strategy was made in 2006. the danube strategy will be finalised in the first half of this year. it's very good that we're talking about the black sea now, but i think we need to conclude this discussion with a concrete proposal. the black sea can contribute to the development of the danube. the danube area contributes to the development of the black sea. the two areas are interdependent, so i think a joint approach should be considered. the subject that could bring immediate results is energy. new energy sources in the caspian sea, as well as new routes, can develop the black sea area and, by implication, the danube area. the most important project in this regard is the nabucco pipeline. that is why i believe that union support is needed to complete this project.
in writing. − the report is important also in that it refers to the importance of the black sea as a natural resource and to the environmental situation in this region; it should not be overlooked that there has been an unprecedented increase in fish mortality in the black sea in recent times. the main pollutants affecting marine biodiversity are the dnieper, don, dniester and danube rivers (which each year dump 60,000 tonnes of phosphorus and 340 tonnes of inorganic nitrogen into the black sea). other factors that contribute to the degradation of the black sea are overfishing and waste. one group of experts estimates that in about 30 years, underwater life will disappear completely from the black sea because of hydrogen sulfide. i believe that these issues should be placed as high on the european agenda as possible.
in writing. − the strategic importance of the black sea in terms of energy, trade and transport can sometimes mean that environmental concerns are sidelined. in its 2007 communication on the black sea synergy, the commission stated that ‘community accession to the convention on the protection of the black sea against pollution is a priority’. in 2008, the commission confirmed that it was ‘examining the conditions for european community accession’. the report we voted on today reaffirms the importance of this convention, and i would like to reiterate the need for the commission to continue towards full eu accession to it. we must work with other partners under this framework to ensure full implementation of the environmental protection measures which the region desperately needs.
i have on many occasions expressed my strong support for the eu's tough stance on human rights in its relations with third countries. i will do the same for pakistan, because the message of this exhibition is that europe will not leave those who speak out for tolerance, for religious freedom, for equal treatment of minorities. we know that in many lands the persecution of christians is a real phenomenon. it's not just pakistan that needs leaders like salman taseer. the european union should therefore seize every opportunity to express its common values in a unified way through the european external action service. one of our shared values is religious freedom. if we do not speak out against atrocities against christians or other religious minorities, we cannot take our own faith seriously.
the assassination of governor salman taseer, one of the most vocal voices for tolerance and minority rights in pakistan, shows a dramatic level of human rights violations. the exercise of freedom of speech and religion in pakistan is punishable by law by imprisonment or even death. salman taseer paid with his life for the defense of religious freedom, for the defense of the lives and freedoms of others. we must support those who fight bravely and risk their lives for human rights and democracy. we call on the pakistani authorities to punish the murderers and their accomplices and to abolish the blasphemy laws.
i would like to begin by saying that i too condemn the brutal assassination of the governor of the province of punjab, a prominent figure in pakistani political life, who stood out for his courageous fight against extremism, intolerance and fanaticism. seven months ago, i argued here for the urgent need to revise the provisions on religious offences in the so-called blasphemy laws. i would like to remind you that the possibilities of abuse offered by these laws create an atmosphere of intolerance, which encourages violence on religious grounds, which also encourages discrimination, intimidation and persecution of religious minorities. the case of asia bibi, which culminated in the murder of governor taseer, is emblematic of this. i believe that the pakistani authorities must actually demonstrate their declared commitment to fighting extremism in this country by abolishing blasphemy laws. i therefore wish to take up here the appeal to the voices of reason in pakistan, made by the daughter of the late governor of punjab, sher bano taseer.
member of the commission. − mr president, this debate is yet more proof that the european union is shocked by the brutal murder of mr salmaan taseer, governor of pakistan’s punjab province, in islamabad on 4 january. high representative ashton strongly condemned the killing in her statement on 4 january. she urged the pakistani authorities to bring the perpetrators of this crime to justice. this assassination is all the more distressing as, based on available reports, it is linked to mr taseer’s outspoken defence of a christian woman, asia bibi, who was sentenced to death under questionable blasphemy charges. it should be noted that on 12 november 2010, high representative ashton expressed deep concern over the death sentence given to mrs asia bibi. she called on pakistan to abolish the death penalty and respect human rights, as guaranteed under the international conventions to which the country is a party. the european union has repeatedly brought up the continued application of the blasphemy laws with the government of pakistan as part of this human rights dialogue. we are conscious of the fact that the blasphemy laws in their present form are open to abuse and have often been applied against religious minorities. we are also aware that false accusations have been used as a tool to settle private disputes or for personal gain. we were encouraged by earlier steps taken by the government of pakistan to try amending more controversial aspects of the laws. ideally, of course, the blasphemy laws would be totally repealed. it is unfortunate that in the case of mr taseer’s assassination there has been widespread public support for the murderer. we are concerned that fatwas were not only issued against mr taseer but also against other public figures who have spoken out for a reform of the blasphemy laws. inciting hatred and violence with impunity should not be allowed. the government of pakistan has a responsibility to protect its citizens, and we count on it to do everything possible to ensure their safety. there are fears that the murder of mr taseer reflects a rise in extremism and intolerance in pakistan. we need to face up to the situation and consider carefully how to react knowing that the government, and democratic institutions of the states more generally, continue to face daunting challenges. let me be very clear here: there is no alternative but to continue to strengthen democratic and progressive forces in pakistan’s civil society. pakistan’s constitution explicitly protects the rights of minorities, and accordingly the government needs to tackle extremism not just in the border areas but also on the streets of pakistani cities. we need to provide continued emphasis on education in our development cooperation and more needs to be done to promote tolerance within the educational system, especially towards minorities. we are well aware of the vulnerable situation of persons belonging to religious minorities in pakistan; this does not just concern christians but also hindus, shias, ahmadis and others. the european union should champion their common cause and not that of any particular group or religion, as this would play into the hands of those wishing to deepen divisions among christians and muslims. we will continue to focus on the need to fully protect every individual’s right to religious freedom in pakistan or elsewhere.
in writing. – i would like to express my deep indignation at the murder of the governor of the province of punjab in pakistan, salman taseer, on 4 january 2011, for having spoken out against pakistan’s law against blasphemy. according to the values of our western societies, murder is considered as the worst single crime. it is, therefore, difficult to understand how someone can commit murder as a form of retaliation. freedom of conscience and freedom of religion are as important as freedom of speech, which may lead to conflicts between these freedoms. however, any definition by governments of what is to be considered as blasphemy is an unacceptable restriction on freedom of speech. a modern society should consider as legitimate all personal views expressed in an inoffensive manner. moreover, if pakistan is to become a tolerant society, such barbarian acts motivated by religious fundamentalism are to be condemned. this incident is yet another reminder that freedom of speech continues to be absent in some regions of the world. given the history of his country, it was courageous for salman taseer to speak out against the blasphemy law and in favour of free speech. it is regrettable that this ultimately cost him his life.
i believe that respect for the independence of the judiciary, a fundamental norm shared by the european union and brazil, must take precedence over any other consideration. i am convinced that the excellent relations between the two sides, both economically and politically, will be matched by equally good cooperation in judicial matters, so that cesare battisti, who is serving a life sentence for four murders and other offences, will serve his sentence in accordance with the legislation to which he is subject. there's a bilateral extradition treaty between italy and brazil. it is therefore essential to call on the brazilian side to comply with this agreement. since the controversy has a high-level political component, i think a dialogue with the new head of the brazilian state is necessary.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is fully aware of the outgoing brazilian president’s recent decision to refuse extradition of an italian citizen, mr battisti, sentenced in absentia to a life sentence and several other terms of prison by the italian court. i have taken due note of your views on this particular case, and i share your feelings towards the victims and their families. however, the commission considers that there is no scope for its involvement in this case. the european union has not concluded any extradition agreement with brazil, and, even if this had been the case, it would have no right to intervene in individual extradition cases. a decision on extradition between european union member states, or between european union member states and third states, are entirely the preserve of the judiciary. italy’s relations with brazil on criminal cooperation are governed by a bilateral extradition treaty concluded in 1989. the brazilian authorities have used their discretionary power within the law to refuse extradition of mr battisti. i would like to add, in no uncertain terms: in the case of extradition, i have no doubts that italian justice delivers the high standards expected of european union member states.
in writing. – the rule of law must be upheld. the credibility of public institutions depends on it. brazilian president lula was authorised by the brazilian supreme court to extradite cesare battisti, an italian citizen convicted of four murders, among other charges. on 31 december 2009, president lula’s last day in office, he refused to extradite battisti to italy. i expect the brazilian authorities to make an apolitical unbiased final decision; a decision that upholds the rule of law. the rule of law is fundamental to brazilian-eu relations. our treaties are founded on the principles of human rights and fairness. i trust these principles to remain mutual.
the author. - if there is perhaps a beginning of openness on the part of iran in the nuclear file, we must, unfortunately, find that the door is clearly closed in this country when it comes to human rights. the case of nasrin sotoudeh fully demonstrates this. she was punished for her human rights work with a very harsh sentence: 11 years in prison, 20 years of being banned from practicing law, banned from leaving the territory. this decision was made following a mock trial. this case is far from an isolated incident. he is part of a deliberate strategy by the iranian regime to systematically silence human rights defenders. a whole series of very harsh sentences are being handed down to human rights lawyers, and we must stand in solidarity with those who, courageously, defend and act in the face of threats, torture and imprisonment, in support of human rights.
the european parliament and the council have adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling for the immediate release of mr nasrin sotoudeh and all prisoners of conscience in iran. after the electoral fraud that kept the ahmadinejad regime in power, thousands of iranians paid the price of freedom for the courage to protest an increasingly repressive regime. nasrin sotoudeh was sentenced, after months of isolation and torture, to 11 years in prison for defending opponents of the tehran regime, including the nobel peace prize winner, as a human rights lawyer and activist. along with many dissidents, dozens of journalists and bloggers who dared to exercise their essential freedom of conscience are suffering in iranian prisons. i believe that the european union's commitment to the release of these democracy fighters must take the form not only of public protest but also of concrete action by the european external action service to mobilise the international community for increased joint pressure to stop these human rights violations in iran.
the conviction of human rights activist nasrin sotoudeh reflects the fragility of human rights in iran. since the controversial re-election of president ahmadinejad in june 2009, all protests have been brutally suppressed, with thousands of citizens arrested and several hundred already serving sentences. the unfair sentence of ms nasrin sotoudeh to 11 years in prison was caused by the fact that, as a lawyer, she defended numerous opponents arrested during the post-presidential demonstrations. he was also accused of giving interviews to foreign media during this period. we are facing a typical case of violation of the right to free speech, the right of lawyers to practice their profession without pressure and constraint, but also the right of the accused to a fair trial. in this context, i would remind the commission and the council that any cooperation between the european union and iran must be based on the premise that respect for human rights is a binding obligation.
the case of lawyer nasrin sotoudeh is very serious. he was given 11 years in prison, banned from practicing law and banned from leaving the country for 20 years. what did he do? he defended shirin ebadi, nobel peace prize laureate, other political activists, human rights defenders, journalists and juveniles sentenced to death. since 2009, at least 15 human rights lawyers have received prison sentences in iran. by such measures, iran violates fundamental human rights and the un's fundamental principles of the role of the lawyer. i call on the commission and the council to intervene for the immediate release of advocate nasrin sotoudeh.
mr president, i would like you to consider with the conference of presidents timetabling the one-minute speeches earlier, because in the last part-sessions this was pushed back to the last hour of our discussions. the general effect is that less and less people are inclined to participate and i would hate to think that this was indeed a reason for pushing it back. so please consider timetabling this earlier to give us the possibility of participating, as we did previously.
the president of the council. - let me start with a quote, i'll quote the words of the survivor of the kolompár friderika pogrom: "we found my father when we went to auschwitz, in '94 or '95, on august 2nd. there was a big sign with their names all over it. we knew they were being taken to germany, but we didn't know where. if a white-haired gypsy man doesn't catch me, i'll reach into the furnace and take a piece. i thought i'd take it and bring it home as a souvenir. my son joshi says, "mom, don't touch it, you might get an infection". "i don't mind, my boys", i answered. "how do you know it was your brother's or your father's?" she asked. i passed out, they took me out of the incinerator. other on behalf of the hungarian presidency, i would like to join the noble initiative by which the european parliament and mr buzek personally wished to commemorate the victims of the roma holocaust, the porajmos, at this meeting. why is it important to remember? shouldn't we be looking to the future? american historian george santayana wrote in 1905, "those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it". during and in the shadow of world war ii, 220 000 roma and sinti were killed, according to the most conservative estimates, simply because they belonged to these two groups - or, as their persecutors put it, to a race. hungarian, czech, romanian, french, german, polish, serbian and who knows what other nationalities. men, women, old people and children. lots and lots of kids. if they were alive today, many of them would be eu citizens. the memories are unanimous about the fact that in the auschwitz-birkenau camp, the families, unlike the jewish prisoners, were allowed to stay together. as one hungarian holocaust survivor put it, "now even the ss knew that gypsy families could not be broken up". they were able to stay together until the night of august 2nd to 3rd, 1944, when the last of the camp's 30,000 inmates were murdered in the midst of the burning of their barracks. the union was reborn from this abyss, the pit and the hell of the purge, after the second world war. the dream of the founding fathers was that the peoples of europe would together deny all that led to such a final denial of human life, to auschwitz and birkenau. the european peoples together, including today's 10 to 12 million roma population in europe. but that's still the past, you might say. where's the future in that? the hungarian presidency believes that we should talk about the past and the future at the same time. when hungarian prime minister viktor orbán presented the programme of the hungarian eu presidency to the european parliament on 19 january, he said: "the roma strategy is a key part of the programme of the hungarian presidency, because europe is not smart if it does not have a heart. and europe will only have a heart if it creates opportunities for social inclusion for the most disadvantaged groups. other i would be very proud if we all together, by the end of the presidency, had a common european roma framework strategy. the work is ongoing, thanks to the commitment of the european parliament and the european commission. the council and its hungarian presidency would like to contribute to this. we want to contribute to strengthening the recognition that roma - like all peoples and ethnic groups in europe and elsewhere - are not a problem but an economic, cultural and human resource.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, a few days ago we commemorated holocaust remembrance day in the european parliament together with holocaust survivors. on behalf of the commission, i highly appreciate the fact that today we are commemorating the roma genocide victims as well. after visits to oswiecim, yad vashem or the holocaust museum in washington dc, you are always shocked by the inhumanity of the holocaust perpetrators. those of you who visited the children’s pavilion in jerusalem would agree with me that you leave the pavilion shaken and you cannot believe that such events were possible in europe and only 60 or 70 years ago. therefore we have to speak about this. we have to teach our children about this sad story because, as we know, history has a tendency to repeat itself. so we must make absolutely sure that this horror will be remembered and never repeated. let us all fight together the ghosts of the past. history has taught us a bitter lesson in what racial hatred and intolerance can do. the european union is therefore built on fundamental rights and values, which include the protection of minorities, the principle of free movement and the prohibition of discrimination, and all these apply in full to roma. it is unacceptable that, in the 21st century, roma people still have to face discrimination on the basis of their ethnic origin. too many roma are still victims of racism, discrimination and social exclusion. too many roma children are still on the streets instead of going to school. too many roma are still denied fair chances in the labour market and too many roma women are still victims of violence and exploitation. the inclusion of roma is a priority for the eu and it requires the commitment and joint efforts of national and local authorities, civil society and eu institutions. for its part, the commission is deeply committed to improving the situation of roma people and, in particular, their social and economic integration. we have been working continually to these ends: this is a longstanding and long-term commitment for us. however, we have to acknowledge that responsibility for roma integration lies primarily with the member states and that is why, in the communication we adopted last year, we provided them with a concrete list of actions for making their roma integration policies more effective. this was the first-ever policy document dedicated specifically to roma. however, our assessment shows that further serious work needs to be done in the member states to improve the effectiveness of their policies for roma integration. that is why, in april, in close cooperation with the hungarian presidency, the commission will adopt a european framework for national roma integration strategies, which will make proposals for tackling roma exclusion. to conclude, at this solemn moment let me emphasise again, on behalf of the commission, the importance of protecting fundamental rights in europe and ensuring the harmonious integration of all into society. it is very important to make sure that history definitely never will repeat itself.
on behalf of the alde group. samudaripen is the word that in romani means hell on earth, that is genocide, holocaust. hell on earth is what the roma of europe experienced during world war ii, when hundreds of thousands were killed for the sole reason that they were roma. how many, we don't know. the holocaust museum in washington estimates that it is about a quarter of a million. other studies say more than a million roma were killed in those years. this lack of certainty is due to the lack of visibility of those who were victims of the roma holocaust and is further evidence that for centuries this people have been systematically discriminated against or ignored. that is why today's statement by the european parliament, in the voice of its president, is a historic moment. but we can't just limit ourselves to him. this must be followed by concrete action at both union and member state level. it is necessary that such recognitions of the roma genocide be made by each member state and, moreover, that knowledge of this aspect of our history be promoted among european citizens. until european children learn in school about this holocaust and the centuries of slavery of roma in many countries that are now members of the union, until european society understands that we have a historical duty to this population, we will not be able to really implement anti-racism campaigns and we will not have much success with national or european roma inclusion strategies.
in writing. i welcome the call for the european union to recognise the genocide against the roma during the second world war. some of the member states have already taken this step and i hope that they will be followed by the other member states and the european union as a whole. unfortunately, the genocide against the roma is ignored by the vast majority of european citizens. this is why, as the romanian president stressed in his speech in recognition of the genocide against the roma in october 2007, it is essential that we do more than make a symbolic gesture. we must encourage the introduction of information about the roma holocaust into the curriculum of european schools. on the other hand, it is unacceptable that 66 years after the liberation of the prisoners from the auschwitz camp an ethnic minority should be discriminated against on such a large scale in the european union. this is why i believe that the social inclusion of roma, one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency, must become the subject of a european policy based on specific, effective and measurable measures.
in writing. the roma are the largest ethnic minority in the eu today, but also the most oppressed over time. during world war ii, hundreds of thousands of roma were killed and persecuted. unfortunately, only a few member states have recognized that the extermination of the roma was, in fact, genocide. to honour the memory of the victims and as a sign of deep respect for roma holocaust survivors, the president of romania in 2007 recognised the atrocities suffered by roma and awarded the national cross of 'faithful service' of the third class to three roma survivors of the genocide. the roma are part of the future of romania, of a european romania. the tragedy of the holocaust is now part of our collective memory. i welcome the fact that one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency is the roma integration strategy. the best memorial is the one that looks to the future. in each member state we need to look at the centuries of history that roma have been part of and to strengthen this initiative for roma today. they are free, equal citizens of europe. we should also create the conditions for the free movement of roma without their being expelled again. we need a community that is perfectly integrated into contemporary society.
in writing. i welcome the initiative of the president of the european parliament, jerzy buzek, to call on the european union to officially recognise the genocide against the roma population by the nazis and their allies during the second world war, as it represents a step forward in the fight to defend the rights of europe's largest ethnic minority. tens of thousands of ethnic roma were tortured or killed in the occupied eastern territories, and thousands more died in nazi concentration camps. historian michael billig sums up the principle of the superior race doctrine by stating: "man is not killed for what he does, but for what he is". this sentence may sum up the sad reality of the time when more than a million roma were oppressed and deprived of any freedom, including the freedom to procreate. i believe that we need concrete action at community level to combat racism, to fight against social exclusion. i argue that we need better cooperation and exchange of good practice at eu level between national and european roma inclusion strategies.
mr president, investing in energy infrastructure is to me the starting point in fulfilling our policy goals, ensuring that our citizens and businesses have access to secure and affordable energy in a functioning internal market and achieving the commission’s ambitious energy infrastructure package, which i see as a positive step. however, we should be pragmatic as well as ambitious. instead of pouring buckets of euros into grand projects, we should focus on identifying and financing smaller, cost-efficient and pragmatic projects that can make a significant difference, such as better interconnections. i think we should consider eu project bonds as a solution to encourage needed investment in infrastructure. but, overall, this crisis forces us to adopt a reasonable, open and integrated approach to our energy policy: first, by taking into consideration all components of the energy mix without considering them – or at least some of them – morally unacceptable, and secondly, with an integrated road map, reconciling our sometimes contradictory climate, supply security and competitiveness targets.
the energy summit can re-direct the union on the path to economic growth. the ambition to become the world's most sustainable economy requires a new energy vision for europe. a coherent, community-based approach is needed, both for production and for efficiency. production is about sourcing, transportation, distribution. there are new sources of energy in the black sea and the caspian sea that can be exploited for long periods. new transport routes can be created from this area. the southern corridor and especially nabucco is extremely important in this regard. the danube strategy can also contribute to the development of new gas or oil supply routes. we cannot discuss a common policy without a common energy grid. interconnecting national networks is the first step towards a single internal market for energy. it needs energy efficiency. steps have been taken in this direction, but the union must put the action plan in this area into practice in the coming years. energy efficiency will have a huge impact on economic growth, ways to reduce co2 emissions, and job creation in it, construction and services. as regards the situation in north africa, we must ensure that the proposals for action which the council will make will ensure a peaceful transition in that area and ensure that the new structures come to power in a democratic way.
at the european energy summit on 4 february, the union needs agreement at the highest political level on priority actions for the completion of the internal energy market, the development of energy infrastructure, and measures to reduce energy consumption, increase energy efficiency and promote renewable energies. we need an action plan for at least ten years, which ensures both solidarity between member states in the event of serious disruptions in energy supply and increases energy security by diversifying energy supply routes and sources. the union needs to modernise energy infrastructure and ensure interconnections between member states' energy infrastructures. in this context, i would like to underline the geostrategic importance of the wider black sea region for the energy security of the european union. the common energy market must be put at the service of the citizens, for whom the price of energy must remain affordable, and allow the eco-efficiency of european industry, ensuring both jobs in the european union and the development of the industrial sector.
in writing. for the european union to achieve its proposed objectives, the correct and rapid implementation of the third internal market, energy, gas and electricity package is a priority. the development of energy infrastructure is a key element in ensuring the functioning of the internal energy market, and i would stress that particular emphasis should be placed on financing this infrastructure for the 2020 time horizon. the european commission must present concrete figures on the investment needs and put forward the new instrument for financing energy infrastructure as soon as possible. in addition to the measures to be taken by the european commission, it is important to strengthen the european union's partnerships with international financial institutions in order to identify innovative financial instruments. it is also necessary to create an appropriate financing framework, in particular by improving the rules for allocating costs for cross-border or technologically complex projects.
in writing. there are currently 27 energy markets in the eu, and their lack of interconnection is failing to meet europe's objectives of economic competitiveness and energy security. in the absence of an integrated single market, eu energy policy cannot effectively address the problems of declining hydrocarbon reserves in europe, rising oil and gas prices, rising global energy demand and global warming. i welcome commissioner oettinger's announcement of the ambitious deadline proposed by the ec for 2015 to be the deadline for completing the internal energy market. the intention to achieve the interconnection of the gas and electricity networks of the 27 member states and the appropriate infrastructure for the eu to meet its objectives is also welcome. i hope that the commission's commitment will be understood by european leaders as a call to put the real long-term interests of the member states first. only by taking a firm decision, as soon as possible, will it be possible to begin the construction and consolidation of the single energy market and the common policy in this field. these are the only elements that can ensure, in the medium and long term, the safety and energy security of all.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the current events in tunisia, egypt and other countries in the region, must remind us that stability without freedom is, if not a mere illusion, at least an unsustainable reality. we must also remember that a revolution or a social upheaval is a guarantee of change, but it is not a guarantee of change for the better. i hope that we will find the inspiration to assist this process in order to make it a process which brings change for the better and not for the worse. deep analysis is needed of the situation in both tunisia and egypt (and not only there), since we have to understand whether we did the right things in the past with a view to avoiding these crises. what steps should we take in the future in order to anticipate or avoid similar crises? and lastly, what could we do in order to make sure that the present crisis will move things towards freedom for the peoples concerned and stability for the region, while avoiding any shift towards more, or another type of, instability and another type of totalitarianism or oppression. we need to adopt a preventive and proactive attitude in this respect, and that requires strategy. certainly our messages were correct in terms of balancing the key word ‘reform’ with the key words ‘order’ or ‘stability’. but the devil is, precisely, in the detail, and indeed it is the feeling of many of us that we have not yet addressed the details, and that we have not shown enough vision or enough strength in addressing the challenges. another important factor is our capacity to talk to all valid actors, including the islamic forces, in such a way as to be able to integrate all of them into a positive process. we hope that the commission and the council will be able to shape such a strategy in the future and we would be happy if they could tell us more about that.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we were discussing the european union's relations with tunisia and i said at the time that the social achievements of which the tunisians were so proud should be accompanied by political progress. and we see in the last few weeks that there is political progress at least in the sense that the nascent revolt is the very clear and distinct expression of the desire for freedom. egypt is the same, even though it's in the middle of development. we do not know what the outcome will be and tomorrow there will certainly be other places that will show just as clearly this desire for freedom. at the same time, as we have seen tonight, some of us are concerned that this wind of freedom does not necessarily lead to secularism or to the maintenance of secularism, to moderation and stability. i think we must be aware that it is possible, in the weeks and years to come, that this region will not have political regimes that are at the same time stable, inspired by freedom or moderation. that is perfectly possible, and i think we should be prepared for that eventuality as well. in this sense, i would encourage the high representative to perhaps put the union's strategy back on the path already outlined by the commission in 2005 in its report for the barcelona summit.
the european union is following the situation in tunisia closely and supports the efforts of the tunisian people for a peaceful transition to democracy. the initial steps taken by the tunisian transitional government are steps in the right direction and we call on the new authorities to fully implement the commitments they have made on governance, respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, and economic and social reforms. i believe that all these reforms are one of the best ways to invest in tunisia's future and to help stabilise its democracy. the eu wants a stable partnership with tunisia within euromed and must mobilise all the instruments at its disposal to help the transition process, the creation of strong democratic institutions, the emergence of an active civil society and the implementation of reforms. we have a particular interest in a stable, prosperous and democratic tunisia with which we can develop mutually beneficial cooperation based on common interests and values.
madam president, the very fact that we are discussing tunisia – our initial topic – at a time when egypt has reached boiling point is indicative of how far we are trailing behind reality, even if the title of our debate can be changed with ease. our public reactions have been timid, expressing concern and addressing pious appeals for restraint and dialogue in the middle of revolutions, demonstrating a lack of practical sense. even the expectations that the revolutions would lead to societies based on our set of values ignore the cultural and religious differences separating those societies from ours. how to react then? first we should realise that this is a challenge asking for a common coordinating answer, not a competition on who demonstrates first the most compassion. lady ashton, your words will carry the necessary authority with their audiences only if fully backed publicly by the council in its entirety. second, we should start being preoccupied with the end result of those revolutionary movements. what kinds of regimes will result? and, in the end we should respect their right to decide for themselves.
in writing. – while democratic progress in the arab world should be encouraged, the strategic interests of the eu should not be endangered. the events in tunisia and egypt proved that autocracy is not a solution. nevertheless, the same events do not guarantee a democratic outcome. recent history showed that democratic revolutions can be hijacked by well organised, militant islam. the iranian revolution of 1979 is a famous example of democratic upheaval that turned autocratic. we should strike a fine balance between the social policies of president mubarak and egypt’s strategic line. egypt is a resilient ally, it joined the forces that liberated kuwait and ensured more than 30 years of peace with israel. there is hope and there is danger in the ongoing events in egypt. the demonstrators and their legitimate demands are a genuine expression of the need to open debate. but there is massive potential for oppressive behaviour, practices and policies within egyptian society. female circumcision, approval for public executions, torture and strict interpretation of islamic law are widespread. the muslim brotherhood is openly promoting this agenda and is credited with 20% of the electoral preferences. caution should be exercised now if democracy is to have a future in egypt.
in writing. the uprisings triggered in the arab world by the self-immolation of young mohamed bouazizi do not necessarily have a religious or ideological component displayed. economic and social demands naturally take precedence, as in egypt, rising food prices have deepened the hardship faced by half of the country's 80 million people, who survive on less than $2 a day. i believe that our position on the events unfolding in the arab region must take into account on the one hand the natural support for the desire for freedom, and on the other hand we cannot ignore the threats to global stability that may result from a collapse of this region, which is becoming increasingly unpredictable, in chaos or under islamist influence. there are disturbing signs that the aspirations of many of the protesters are not at all the model of western democracy, but the opposite. i can't finish without thinking of the russian invasion of georgia two years ago, when the western world stood dumbfounded and ignored. once again, the crucial developments near the eu's borders have caught us off guard and once again we are out of the game, even though this game directly affects european stability in many ways.
after four decades of civil war, with over two million dead and four million refugees, south sudan's secession is a response to ethnic and religious intolerance, following the 2005 report and the referendum a month ago. this separation has been agreed by the parties and i am convinced that it will speed up and facilitate the acceptance of south sudan into the international community. but there is a risk of a domino effect on a continent traumatised by wars caused by artificial borders inherited from the colonial period. therefore, the six months of transition to full secession are crucial to shaping the future course of the new state. on the one hand, there are the military and strategic challenges, the violent rivalry between the former military leaders of the secessionist movement, the infiltration of militias, the privatization of internal security, the incidents on the border with the muslim sudan and the issue of sharing oil revenues with it. on the other hand, there is the great humanitarian problem and i think the european union must be involved here in a major way, otherwise we will face a disaster that will fuel instability in the region. in sudan, one in ten children die in their first year of life and one in seven die before they reach the age of five. access to clean water and health services is limited, and four-fifths of the population is illiterate. half the population of the south is under 18 years old, and if they escape the clutches of infant mortality, they risk becoming, because of poverty and lack of prospects, cannon fodder in conflicts that can undermine the independence of the new state. i hope that the european union will take account of the complexity of this issue.
in writing. the agreement between the european union, the united states of america and a group of latin american countries on tariffs applied by the union in trade in bananas was concluded on 15 december 2009. this agreement ends a complex litigation that has lasted for almost two decades. it represents the eu's commitment in this area and will be included in the final outcome of the doha round. unfortunately, we cannot fully enjoy this success. the agreed tariff reduction for latin american banana exporters risks having adverse economic and social consequences in the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, whose producers do not possess the same technical means as their competitors. i therefore welcome the financial assistance programme included in the agreement, which will provide the acp countries with eur 190 million until 2013 to support their competitiveness and diversification of production. however, the european commission has to present an assessment of the impact of the agreement until 2020 as well as of the assistance programme, together with possible recommendations for its extension and for additional financial support.
with a mortality rate of 1.6 to 2 million people per year, tb is one of the two leading causes of death worldwide from infectious diseases, which justifies the growing concern of public health organisations globally. in an age of dramatic medical advances, we must recognize that the time has come for the classic bcg vaccine for tuberculosis to be replaced by a new, more modern, and far more effective one. this is not possible, however, without, on the one hand, allocating more generous european funds to the completion of research in this field and, on the other hand, finding other ways of funding, by revising the model proposed by the tbvi for alternative and innovative methods of funding. by providing financial guarantees, this model can be made more attractive to the european business community, thus ensuring its involvement and the necessary financial support.
in writing. although some progress has been made, tb remains one of the leading causes of mortality globally, particularly in developing countries, causing nearly 2 million deaths per year. the case of romania is also worth mentioning, with 110 cases per 100 000 inhabitants, compared to the european average of 39 cases per 100 000. access to health care is a universal right, and it's not the financial costs that we should be concerned about. there is still a mismatch between the developed and developing countries. we must show solidarity and support by all means the 'stop tb' programme launched by the world health organisation (who). europe has a duty to seek viable and innovative ways to secure research funding for the fight against tuberculosis and other communicable diseases. the european union-supported tb vaccination initiative (tbvi) is a solution to the current situation by creating affordable vaccines that can be made available to the population through a structured vaccination programme. the introduction of tbvi in the eu 2020 strategy may be the key to strengthening europe's strategic independence in the fight against tuberculosis and its innovation leadership.
i would like to draw attention to the situation in romania, namely the flagrant violation of the principles of the rule of law by the current government. the arrest of a prominent opposition member, constantin nicolescu, announced before the trial began, without any clear evidence, shows the undemocratic way in which the current power operates. political arrest, coupled with the contempt shown to citizens by the anti-social measures taken by the government, bring the humiliated and condemned to poverty into the streets. to quell the protests against the abusive and undemocratic measures, the government has ordered the purchase of riot-suppression equipment worth 10 million euros. all of this gives a clear picture of the political dictatorship and what will happen next if these acts that are contrary to european values are not sanctioned. we're not protesting against justice, we're protesting against politically enforced abuse. the union calls for democracy to be respected in countries such as tunisia and egypt, but it must be strictly respected in the member states.
the sch-eval assessment team adopted all the assessment reports for romania. according to the conclusions, romania fulfils all the requirements of the schengen acquis. unfortunately, the european council refuses to make the reports available to the european parliament, blocking the proceedings in parliament. members cannot vote without knowing the contents of the reports. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has requested the documents, romania has proposed declassification; however, the council is delaying without reason a decision. i believe that in this situation romania has the right to make available to parliament all the reports relating to its accession to the schengen area. these reports are the only criteria which can form the basis of the decision to join. the request to add other criteria is not in line with the european treaties, does not constitute a european approach and is not based on serious arguments. romania has fulfilled its legal obligation to prepare to ensure the protection of the union's external borders and must receive the appropriate response from the european institutions.
madam president, i would like to inform you that democracy in romania has never seemed under so much pressure during the last 20 years. we have already alerted you regarding the president of the chamber of deputies, who falsified the vote for the all-important pensions law. the recent case of the social democrat, constantin nicolescu, the chairman of the argeş county council in romania, proves once again that the methods used by the governing party in romania brutally threaten the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. all the measures adopted by the government demonstrate that the democratic liberal party in romania is at war with the entire romanian people. we cannot allow a democratic member of the european union to behave undemocratically, arresting people at will and using public institutions to carry out personal vendettas. together we must defend our rights, our freedoms and our democracy.
we have heard many voices of dissatisfaction and indignation about hungary's presidency. interestingly, none of these concerns the eu programme of the presidency. there were those who raised their voices about the media law. the european commission has already expressed its objections, and the hungarian government has indicated its readiness to amend the law. i wondered why the slovak state language act, which continues to impose fines for the use of the mother tongue, has not received the same international attention. why were voices that feared the enforcement of fundamental rights in the context of the media law not worried when one of the most natural human rights of the hungarian minority in slovakia was questioned? others were disturbed by a giant carpet in the council building that depicted a map of hungary from 160 years ago. this map is a symbol of the fact that the building of a strong europe can only be achieved through the knowledge and respect of our common history and national values.
the repeated abuse of power by those who rule romania today has thrown this country into the darkest corner of its post-1989 history. although it has a democratic constitution, its articles are often flagrantly violated. although theoretically it has a separation of powers in the state, according to democratic principles, in practice one man, president traian basescu, holds control of all power in romania, dictating at will, abusing power day after day, in an attempt to demolish the political opposition and strangle any voice that rises to offer a viable alternative to the disastrous basescu-boc government. as a member state of the european union, romania's fate should not be treated with indifference by either the european institutions or the representatives of the other eu member states, who should take a stand on this issue. please don't be fooled by the incoherent explanations and sometimes pitiful justifications of those who govern romania or those who support them openly, either out of fear or pursuing their own petty interests. their deeds are enough to show those who want to see what the sad reality of my country is.
i've decided to come back periodically to remind mr buzek of the developments in democracy in romania. he was in the romanian parliament and supported the boc government and traian basescu. i want to tell mr buzek that in romania, the parliament has no power, that all laws are taken and assumed by the government, that also the government of romania has no power, because it is traian basescu who appoints the ministers, pulls their ears and announces every time important measures are taken. also, in romania, innocent people are put in jail for 30 days, to be tried afterwards. i asked mr. buzek for an official position, i received an answer through a press release from the pd-l and traian băsescu. i insist and await an official position from mr. buzek.
today we are witnessing events that will change the course of history in north africa and beyond. dictatorial regimes cannot survive for long anywhere in the world. i would like to point out, however, that new forms of dictatorship can arise, even in a member state of the european union considered to be democratic, namely romania. in a state of law, a man must be presumed innocent until he is convicted by a jury. his trial must be held in a state of freedom, if he does not present a social danger. these universal principles of law no longer apply in romania when it comes to president basescu and the ruling liberal democratic party. clear proof that the arrests are being made in romania at the political command is the statement made by president basescu in strasbourg, five hours before the arrest of constantin nicolescu, i quote: "an important member of the opposition has been arrested" (i finished the quote), although he had not yet reached the court. what clearer proof is needed to prove that president basescu decides who and when to arrest?
i would like to join my colleagues who have drawn attention to the persecution of the political opposition in romania, with the help of legal levers of a power with increasingly obvious authoritarian overreach. in a free fall in terms of popularity, following austerity measures of a savage harshness, with dramatic consequences on living standards, the government of romania is resorting to increasingly violent anti-democratic methods to maintain itself in power. as my colleagues have said, the unjustified and abusive arrest of a prominent member of the opposition, elected by direct vote of the citizens, represents the latest and most worrying example in the series of threats and harassment against the opposition forces, while the state budget is being plundered by the political clientele, their chaotic measures deepening the economic and social crisis and worryingly increasing social tension. that is why we are protesting together against the attacks that try to intimidate the political opposition and the trade unions and i believe that the european forums must take a stand against the flagrant violations of democratic rights in romania.
we would probably not have talked about cooperation with developing countries if some of the founding states of the european union had not asked for a special mention in the treaty of rome of the colonies they had, which initially cast a shadow over the concept of democracy. the very foundation of the european union has gradually morphed into a policy whose keywords have become the eradication of poverty, the promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms, decent work and good governance. the developing countries are today strategic partners for the european union. that is why i believe that a financial instrument for developing countries that do not meet the oda criteria facilitates economic, financial, technical, cultural and academic cooperation. they can also stimulate bilateral trade, investment, economic partnerships and promote dialogue between public actors and non-governmental organisations, both from the eu and from partner countries.
parliament must be able to control on an equal footing with the council the adoption of strategic decisions on how the resources allocated through the financial instruments for cooperation are spent. at the same time, however, the eu must flexibly and speed up its mechanisms for developing trade relations with partner countries. i support the idea of a pragmatic approach on the part of the union in its economic relations with partner countries. i consider it of particular importance to implement financial instruments in countries such as turkmenistan and iraq, which can provide energy resources through strategic projects such as nabucco. and here i would like to mention: through the joint declaration of the presidents of romania and turkmenistan, an energy partnership was established in the exploitation and transport of natural gas and oil, including through the transfer of experience and equipment. romania has also participated in the implementation of stabilization and reconstruction missions in iraq.
in writing. the european instrument for democracy and human rights is one of the only eu external policy instruments that still maintains a rigid system of allocation of funds, in that it does not provide for the possibility of exempting from the principle of ineligibility expenditure on taxes, duties and other duties financed by the eu. in the context of a deterioration in the protection of human rights worldwide, i believe it is absolutely necessary for the european union to reassert its role as a world leader in democracy and fundamental rights. in this respect, the flexibility of the european financing instrument is more than necessary to allow the union and the beneficiaries of european financial assistance to have a certain degree of flexibility in the management of the projects they undertake. on the other hand, this flexibility in the allocation of european funds should be closely monitored so that abuses do not occur. in addition to the fact that the approval of the financing of costs related to taxes, duties and other charges must remain an exception and be made on a case-by-case basis, the european parliament must have a right of oversight over the activities carried out by the commission and the strategic documents adopted by it.
in writing. waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the fastest growing waste stream in the eu. proper weee management helps to reuse valuable resources, with major effects on the environment, public health and the creation of green jobs. according to the commission's impact assessment, approximately 24 kg of weee per capita per year is currently generated in the eu, of which only 65% is collected. recycling weee will contribute to the creation of 5-7 times more jobs than incineration and 10 times more than in landfilling. the revision of the directive has allowed for new targets for the collection, recycling and reuse of weee (a recycling target of 50-75% - depending on the category, up from 10 to 6 - and a new reuse target of 5%), as well as tougher measures to prevent the export of electronic waste to developing countries. the responsibilities of producers, consumers and local authorities are more clearly defined to ensure an environmentally friendly treatment. electronic goods manufacturers will have to ensure that waste treatment is funded, with a positive impact by adhering to ecodesign rules, creating products that are easy to repair and recycle.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment, as sent to the european parliament by the commission, is unclear and therefore member states may interpret the types of equipment covered by this directive differently. in addition, the commission will have to develop a common methodology to determine the amount of waste generated in each member state, but this amount of waste generated depends on the specificities of the consumer market, the different life cycle of products and the habits of the population in that member state. the commission notes that the average annual amount of waste generated by the two companies is higher than the average annual amount of waste generated by the two companies. the added value of this directive is its potential health and environmental benefits. proper management of electronic waste could contribute to up to 50-75% recycling and 5% reuse. to achieve this, producers of electronic goods, but also consumers, need to be held accountable. producers will have to finance the treatment of waste, and consumers will have to dispose of e-waste legally at treatment centres.
in writing. − the unanimous vote on the request for the waiver of the immunity of the hungarian mep tamás deutsch demonstrates the usefulness of the european-wide protection for all members of the legislature. because, as has been shown by my careful analysis of the application made by the hungarian judiciary, it is clear that we are dealing with the most pure situation of immunity over political opinions. a contested instrument, the immunity of a member of a legislative body is meant to give him the freedom to express his opinions. and in the case of our colleague tamás deutsch, it's directly demonstrating its usefulness. i would remind you that the european parliament has never protected any of its own members who were under investigation for acts of corruption or common law offences. the very attempt to prevent members of parliament from expressing their views on matters of public interest and concern by bringing legal proceedings is unacceptable in a democratic society. this is in addition to being a breach of article 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european communities, which was designed to protect the freedom of expression of meps in the exercise of their direct duties.
in writing. − i call for a swifter reaction from the council to the european parliament's draft recommendation amending regulation no 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation. one year after the start of interinstitutional negotiations on the horizontal aspect of delegated acts in the framework of the instruments for financing external action, the council formally refused parliament's role in the application of the financing instruments, including that on development cooperation, under article 290 of the treaty of lisbon. after rejecting all the first reading amendments, which seek to incorporate delegated acts into instruments without proposing an alternative procedure, the council invited parliament to adopt its position without leaving room for negotiation. these negotiations are primarily aimed at ensuring compliance with the lisbon treaty by all institutions, not just effective parliamentary control and thus democratic control of the implementation of eu legislation, and the outcome of the negotiations will set an important precedent for future legislative negotiations on all funding instruments. i would like to appeal to the board to communicate our position as soon as possible, so that we can reach an agreement to release the funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the establishment of a financing instrument for development cooperation. i believe that such a financial instrument is necessary in the context of developing countries becoming strategic partners of the union. this instrument will facilitate economic, technical, academic, financial and cultural cooperation, thus bringing benefits to both the european union and its partners.
in writing. − for the european union, democracy and human rights are fundamental values which should be strongly promoted worldwide, as an integral part of ongoing action to reduce poverty, resolve conflicts and at the same time as a valuable starting point for the fight against terrorism. i therefore welcome the european union's concrete intention to integrate the promotion of democracy and human rights into its external policies. the global funding instrument for human rights improves the efficiency and transparency of the community's external assistance and strengthens respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in countries and regions where they are most at risk. support the strengthening of the role of civil society in promoting human rights and democratic reform, in supporting the peaceful reconciliation of group interests and in enhancing political participation and representation. it also supports actions in the areas covered by the european union guidelines, namely the promotion of democracy, human rights, the death penalty, torture, children's rights, violence against women and armed conflict. i voted in favour of this report which supports and strengthens the international and regional framework for the protection of human rights, justice, the rule of law and the promotion of democracy.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that the european union needs to reassert its role as a world leader in democracy and fundamental rights. in this respect, the flexibility of the european financing instrument is more than necessary to allow the union and the beneficiaries of european financial assistance to have a certain degree of flexibility in the management of the projects they undertake. on the other hand, i think that there is a need for proper control of the use of these funds. in addition to the fact that the approval of the financing of costs related to taxes, duties and other charges must remain an exception and be made on a case-by-case basis, the european parliament must have a right of oversight over the activities carried out by the commission and the strategic documents adopted by it.
in writing. − i welcome the measures provided for by the european union under the development cooperation financing instrument, particularly those which support small farmers and small farming enterprises. these are measures aimed at social adjustment policies, but also economic diversification in the areas concerned or investments to improve competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the agreement on trade in bananas because this agreement puts an end to a dispute that has lasted for almost two decades and also represents a step forward towards the conclusion of the doha round. the agreement decided to reduce tariffs for banana exporters in latin america, while guaranteeing financial aid to increase the competitiveness of banana producers in the african, caribbean and pacific group of states.
in writing. − i believe that, at european level, manufacturers also have an important role to play in the recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). it should be borne in mind that the recovery of weee is an important source of secondary raw materials, and therefore producers should encourage consumers to participate as much as possible in this process. a responsible approach by manufacturers encourages innovation and contributes to ensuring long-term competitiveness, objectives which are in line with the european union's 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that there is a need to make the management of electrical and electronic waste more efficient, given the poor balance to date and the fact that this waste is growing at an accelerated rate. amending the current directive will improve collection rates, improve legislation on illegal exports and achieve a fairer distribution of responsibilities for the management of electrical and electronic waste. in addition to the environmental benefits, this change will also have a positive socio-economic impact in terms of creating new jobs in the sector of collection, treatment and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment.
in writing. − waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) represents the fastest-growing waste stream in the eu and we therefore face a range of challenges: 9 million tonnes now, growing to 12.3 million by 2020. taking into account these quantities, there is a good business case for retrieving more weee: more revenue and jobs for the waste treatment sector; a contribution to the employment of the long-term unemployed and disadvantaged; recovered material has an estimated value of around eur 2 billion a year. there are important scarce raw materials in weee that we should retrieve to lower the need for imports. the recast was very urgently needed in order to tackle climate change, to avoid environmental damage through bad waste management and to keep hold of the valuable resources in electric and electronic equipment. we will need high collection rates, high recycling rates and adequate recycling standards, strong legislation against illegal exports, far-reaching producer’s responsibility, better designed equipment and a fair distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities.
in writing. − the recent events in tunisia have called into question the effectiveness of the eu's neighbourhood policy in the mediterranean basin. the european parliament's resolution sends a strong signal in this regard. unfortunately, the citizens' struggle for respect for rights did not receive european support, in the absence of a specific mechanism in the association agreement. the result was the violent suppression of the movement and the loss of human life. i therefore welcome the initiative to set up a committee of inquiry. furthermore, i believe that a check on the application of the human rights clause will prevent such incidents from happening again. the tunisian people need support in building functioning state institutions. at european level, the tunisian case calls for a change in priorities vis-à-vis third countries. respect for human rights should be the basis of political dialogue. the eu must maintain its coherence in its discourse, so as not to lose its credibility.
in writing. - the egyptian people are in the streets these days to make their voices heard, just weeks after a similar scenario in tunisia. analysts compare the situation in arab countries with that of central and eastern europe in the 1990's. history repeats itself 20 years later, bringing hundreds of thousands of people to the streets. the european union must express its solidarity with the people of the arab countries who are now or have been on the streets. it is important, however, that the source of the demonstrations be legitimate democratic aspirations and the need to improve social and living conditions. in its democratic tradition, the eu must condemn repression and the disproportionate use of force by law enforcement, which have led to loss of life. the democratic process in these countries, where the situation is still uncertain, must be strongly supported and the european union has a great responsibility in this regard. the conditions for the holding of free elections, the adoption of democratic constitutions guaranteeing freedom of expression, political pluralism and the principle of electivity must now be created. the eu high representative must play an active role in assessing the needs of these countries, which are undergoing radical transformations because they lack democratic exercise.
in writing. - for a month and a half, the arab world has been shaken, from tunisia to yemen, by a shock wave or a wind of freedom - it is difficult to say yet, given the complex implications of the protests that ousted ben ali and now shake the seat of mubarak, causing, in the meantime, the fall of the jordanian government. the departure of the tunisian president does not mean the end of his regime, which remains a source of tension. i share the tunisians' concern about the retention of the ministers of the former regime, some of whom are involved in the repression of the demonstrations. i believe that the eu has a duty to encourage a process of democratization on a sound basis, so as not to favour the premises of replacing one totalitarianism by another. tunisia is not only a model for those who want the fall of arab autocracies, but it also remains a precedent that can help us understand the further developments in the complicated oriental equation.
in writing. − the global spread of tuberculosis remains a concern, as it remains one of the leading causes of death worldwide, killing around 2 million people each year. despite progress, the incidence of this bacterial infection has increased dramatically in recent years due to the socio-economic decline of the countries of the former soviet bloc, the weak infrastructure of public health systems and unequal access to treatment. i welcome the joint motion for a resolution on the 'tuberculosis vaccine initiative' because i believe that in the fight against tuberculosis, vaccines coupled with the most effective tests for infection and the best treatments are an essential tool for fighting it. i also believe that access to safe drinking water and a balanced diet, as well as free access to health services, play an important role in improving living conditions and in the fight against poverty and tuberculosis. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the tuberculosis vaccine.
in writing. − vaccination against tb and investment in research into new tb therapies are the only solutions to eradicate tb by 2050. unfortunately, romania has a poor record of tb transmission, ranking first in the european union in the number of tb patients, a position that experts say will remain for a long time. in these circumstances, eu programmes and funding for tb treatment are more than welcome, and investment in the health of europeans is important. according to romanian authorities, 30,000 new cases of tuberculosis are reported annually in romania. one possible explanation for the high number of new cases each year is the rise in civilization, with new prevention programmes, mostly funded by the eu. although romania continues to have the highest incidence of tuberculosis in europe, the last five years have seen significant reductions in this indicator. mortality from tuberculosis in romania has also been decreasing, from 10.7% in 2002 to 7.6% in 2008. funding for tb eradication programs is all the more appropriate because no new diagnostic or treatment tools have been discovered in the past 35 years.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the progress made so far in waste management is minimal and therefore i ask the italian government to respect eu regulations and deadlines imposed by the commission. the commission should closely monitor this and, if necessary, impose sanctions to ensure that the local authorities in campania comply with community provisions on waste management. the structural funds, currently blocked by the commission, must be released as soon as a regional strategy in line with eu law and a credible waste management plan are presented. as regards the location of new waste collection/disposal points, stricter controls are required to avoid the opening of sites located in protected areas, such as those built on the perimeter of vesuvius national park (terzigno deposit). i stress the need to rebuild citizens' trust through dialogue with the local population, because so far public protests that have taken place at some waste sites have not been taken seriously by the italian authorities.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as a standing rapporteur on relations with russia, may i inform you that we have already launched a very thorough process in order to deal with all the serious matters which are important in our relations with russia. we have already had a hearing with the representative of the external action service and a representative of the russian government. on 2 march, we are going to organise another hearing with experts which will deal with all the important aspects of relations with russia. in the second week of march, we are planning to have a comprehensive text, including a recommendation, which will be open to discussion and amendments and which will wind up with a debate in plenary with the participation of the high representative, who, to our knowledge, is not available this week. so therefore, without neglecting or denying the importance of this topic, it is much better to allow this process to continue and reach its end in such a way as to have a wide-ranging debate which will lend credibility to our decision.
the services directive establishes both a general legal framework for member states, public administrations and local authorities with a view to simplifying procedures, harmonising provisions on the right of establishment and the provision of services, and the creation of one-stop shops to assist service providers and, in particular, smes. we call on member states to turn the one-stop shops into the e-government portal, offering a full range of online services for service providers wishing to set up a business or provide cross-border services. member states should ensure the accessibility of the single points of sale, including the possibility of completing certain formalities and procedures at a distance by electronic means. in order to ensure the electronic interoperability of the one-stop shops and the mutual recognition of electronic signatures, we call on the commission to urgently review the directive 93/1999 on electronic signatures and to adopt a legislative act on the mutual recognition of electronic identification and authentication in order to facilitate the provision of cross-border public services in the single market.
i consider that in order to achieve an adequate level of protection of human health of european citizens in the event of radioactive contamination and to give democratic legitimacy to the adoption of this regulation, it is necessary to establish safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public in such a way as to ensure that they are applied in all member states in accordance with union decisions. member states are also responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels set out in the framework of protection against radioactive contamination in this regulation, in particular by monitoring safety standards for both food and feed, but also by monitoring environmental parameters. this ensures compliance with the maximum permitted levels, safety and risk management of radioactive contamination.
the 'think small first' principle, which underpins the european commission's entrepreneurship policies, is an important one. we must not forget that two thirds of jobs in the european union are created by smes. however, in the context of the crisis, access to loans for smes is difficult, as banks consider them to be risky entities. the aim is to boost public guarantee schemes in the member states and to facilitate access to guarantees offered by the european investment bank group in order to ease funding constraints. we also note the existence of difficulties in providing information on the conditions for allocating funds and, in some cases, even the lack of the administrative capacity needed at local level to mediate access to loans. the commission should focus in the period 2014-2020 on increased transparency in the relationship between lenders and businesses and on access to advisory services regarding information on the platforms and loan conditions available to smes. the european investment bank, as a promoter of european policies, is also responsible for providing technical assistance to national and local administrations to simplify access to finance for entrepreneurs.
supporting smes and entrepreneurs offers a way out of the financial crisis. access to the single market and improving the enforcement of the small business act must be priorities at national and community level. i note that the current measures have not yet removed the obstacles to sme development - 23 million european smes are waiting for positive action from the commission. another important aspect is the development of alternative sources of finance. initiatives should be taken to increase access to the capital market and to create better tax incentives for investors. particular attention should be paid to supporting large-scale financing of innovative companies. the romanian government is to adopt the programme to stimulate the creation and development of micro-enterprises by young entrepreneurs. this is a new concrete measure of the package of government initiatives to stimulate the business environment.
as you know, smes in romania face problems more or less similar to those in other member states, given the specificity and difficulty of the period. however, there are issues relating to improving their financial support possibilities, primarily related to access to technical assistance for accessing financial instruments, especially those dedicated to increasing research and development capacity. i appreciate the need to increase access to quality information and competent services. i recall that at the plenary session last september, the european commission representative said that an online learning platform specifically for smes was planned to be launched in 2011. it aims to facilitate smes' access to and exploitation of research and development projects by providing free online training, personalised information and a communication forum. training sme managers in the use of financial instruments can lead to much more effective results, alongside supporting procedures and reducing red tape.
i would like to stress that the obstacles to sme development, job creation and innovation in europe have not yet been removed. that is why i believe that the european commission's strategies, acts and concrete action plans need to be improved - 23 million european smes are waiting for positive actions, such as those on public procurement, combating late payment, access to vocational training, supporting entrepreneurship and improving taxation and financing. supporting smes and entrepreneurs offers a way out of the financial crisis. improving regulation, smes' access to the single market and to finance, and improving the application of the small business act, must be priorities at national and european level.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the debate this evening has highlighted - as was already apparent from the text of the motion for a resolution - a perfect harmony between the will of parliament and that of the european commission to put the real economy at the centre of economic policy, in order to get out of the crisis, with particular attention to small and mediumsized enterprises, which represent the arterial and venous system of our economy. the european commission is fully committed to trying to turn a political choice into concrete action and it is no coincidence that, thanks also to the support of parliament and the council, we have approved the text of the directive on late payment, which is of fundamental importance for small and mediumsized enterprises. it is now up to us to urge the member states to speed up the time taken to transpose the directive into national law they have 24 months from october although i personally hope that the member states will do so more quickly in transposing a directive which also directly affects the possibility of accessing a credit due, and then using it in innovation. when the directive comes into force, some eur 180 billion will be in circulation. but it's not enough. as regards aid to small and mediumsized enterprises, the commission will adopt the update of the small business act on 23 february, where there will be a number of important choices, including those on the single window for access to finance, which will be one of the proposals we will make to the member states. in addition, we will invite all member states and all local authorities to nominate mr or miss sme. on 16 february i will appoint the new head of the european commission - deputy director-general daniel calleja - who will be responsible for monitoring and verifying the application of the small business act and the european reference point for small and medium-sized enterprises for commission policy. the text of the small business act, which we shall be adopting on 23rd february, calls on all member states to do the same, and we call on local authorities who have legislative powers to do the same. as regards financing, the problem of access to credit due - we have already discussed this in the directive on late payments - and access to credit desired or required by small and mediumsized enterprises can only be solved by facilitating relations between credit institutions and enterprises, but also between the european investment bank. i therefore agree with those who say that these relations must be increased and that the bottlenecks which in the past, especially at the end of the crisis, delayed the disbursement of the famous 30 billion decided for small and mediumsized enterprises and which, due to the difficulty of transferring them to national credit institutions, have been delayed in being received by smes, must be unblocked. i should say that the first meeting of the sme finance forum focused on the bottleneck between the european investment bank and the national lending institutions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the european parliament on the subject of the financial perspectives for the community. of course, we are working on simplification already with concrete things, of which i give a few examples: i have had the implementing regulations of a rather technical regulation translated into all the languages of the european union, and this has been an important signal to small and mediumsized enterprises, so that they will not have to hire an expert in technical english and chemical engineering; we have actually cut all the registration taxation for micro enterprises. we have come to a reduction of 90 percent for reach registration and we have come to 60 percent for small enterprises. these are some of the concrete things that also concern simplification. of course, the test for small and medium-sized enterprises, which was introduced by the small business act, still exists. we must continue to support it and apply it seriously. the competitiveness test - the fitness check - which we introduced with the industrial policy document, which also looks at the effects on competitiveness and on the legislation in force, will also help small and mediumsized enterprises. i can only thank mr rübig and be pleased that parliament has invited and supported us to commit ourselves to increasing the funding for the next cip ii. in conclusion, i can only assure you of my commitment, because i agree with everything that has been said. as i have always said on all occasions when i have had the opportunity to speak on the subject of policy for small and mediumsized enterprises, i confirm that my priority will be to ensure that bureaucratic barriers, access to credit and a policy of support for small and mediumsized enterprises will be the main feature of the commissioner for industry and entrepreneurship's work in the coming years, that is, until the end of his term. the support of the european parliament is also of fundamental importance to me because, as i said at the beginning of my reply, there is a perfect identity of views between you and me.
in writing. – it is widely accepted in the european union, that smes need better, more direct access to finance. as highlighted in the 2020 communication, the financial crisis has halved europe’s growth potential. the impact on real economy activity could be said to be more pronounced in europe, due to smes high reliance on bank loans. the way out of this crisis for smes would be to further support and develop equity markets and small innovative enterprises. the establishment of an sme finance forum last may signalled a positive move towards improving smes financial prospectus and their future viability in europe. i believe that over 1.8 million smes benefited from loan guarantees in 2009. let us not forget that smes are the bread and butter of the european economy. it is crucial that adequate bank lending is returned to normal levels as soon as possible. europe must work towards creating a viable venture capital market as a priority.
author. − on 8 december 2010, the commission published the european union strategy for the danube region and the related action plan, which are to be adopted by the european council during the hungarian presidency of the union. the european parliament has contributed to the development of the strategy, both through its resolution of 20 january 2010 and through the work of the danube forum in the european parliament, and will remain an active partner in its implementation and updating. the european union strategy for the danube region is the result of extensive consultations involving local, regional and national authorities, as well as representatives of civil society, academia and business. their role becomes even more important in the process of its implementation. the strategy reaffirms the importance of mobility and convenience, the need to invest in improved navigation and interconnections, the development of multimodal ports and the use of new technologies to make the danube less polluted and to accelerate the removal of existing obstacles to the free movement of vessels. the completion of the danube ten-t projects, the development of tourism, energy infrastructure, the prevention and management of natural disasters and the effects of climate change, as well as cultural and academic exchanges will bring prosperity to the region. in view of the complex ecosystems and biodiversity of the danube region, it is important that, in accordance with the joint declaration on the development of inland navigation and environmental protection in the danube basin, there are integrated project teams and win-win solutions for both navigation improvement and environmental protection. we welcome the appointment of the coordinators of the priority actions on 3 february and ask them to draw up work programmes and identify the necessary financial resources, improve cooperation between countries and regions to move immediately to implement the strategy. member states may review their operational programmes and reallocate unused funds to priority projects for the danube region. the provisions of the future multiannual financial framework should also include specific provisions for macro-regional strategies. i conclude, mr president, by saying that, in view of the link between the black sea and the north sea through the rhine, the main and the danube, we call for the extension of the european union strategy for the danube region to the black sea region.
author. − the european strategy for the danube region is an integrated strategy which will create interconnections between different european policies, focusing on the main problems present in the whole macro-region. the alde group's contribution is aimed at improving freight transport by widening the inland waterway, developing cities along the danube, increasing port capacity, developing the necessary terminals and adequate infrastructure to enable multimodal transport, and encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises to access european funds. i would like to stress the very special economic interdependence of the danube countries, the importance of investment in information and communication technology, but also in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and their research departments, in order to ensure sustainable and efficient growth and to stimulate the growth of the green economy. if we want economic growth and job creation in the danube member states, we must ensure the prerequisites for the successful implementation of this strategy, through the involvement of local authorities, but also through public-private partnerships. member states must identify priority areas for development and prepare the related projects in advance, ensuring that they are integrated projects, targeting all available european funds and, in particular, regional cooperation opportunities. in this context, i think it is vital to know exactly what the european commission's action plan is for implementing this strategy and the governance model adopted to this end.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission is very enthusiastic. we have therefore been very pleased to accept the task of developing a strategy with the regions and member states concerned. we have put forward a proposal which aims to significantly increase cooperation between the regions and the member states and to improve living standards. there is a broad consensus on the priorities of the strategy, namely mobility, the environment and thus environmental improvement and increased prosperity. i am pleased that here in parliament too, the integrated approach to this new macro-regional strategy is being welcomed and supported time and again. finally, as the baltic sea strategy shows, there needs to be an active involvement of all stakeholders, from the local to the national and regional to the european level. but civil society, business, etc. must all play their part. in the danube region, this seems to be guaranteed. i think that we should have a real sustainable development here. for example, three of the eleven priority areas deal with the improvement of water quality, nature protection and also the issue of risk management and flood prevention, not only of the danube but also of the tributaries, in an ecologically appropriate way. it's also an incredible opportunity. let 's not forget: the danube is by far the most international river in the world. ten states border this river. no river in the world has so many countries bordering it. it is therefore very important - with eight member states and six non-member states involved in this macro-regional strategy - that we also seize the opportunity of institutional cooperation, of institution building. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there are still many possibilities in the current programming. it is a matter of intelligently linking operational programmes with the aim of tackling at the same time certain projects which can only be implemented across regions. i also say in many talks, multilateral or bilateral, that we should start preparing for the next financial perspective now, by considering what projects can be carried out together and what financial resources might be necessary. it is also important to use the additional resources available in the region, such as the eur 30 billion provided by the european investment bank for three years. i am sure that there will still be the opportunity today to address some of these directly. we in the commission will support and support this strategy, which has been developed from the bottom up. there will be a high level group from all the member states, where the developments will be reported on regularly. there are follow-up conferences, reports and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask you, in your capacity as local representatives, to insist that the many actions which have already been envisaged today be evaluated, approved, and then actually implemented, so that the intention of all of us is taken into account.
on behalf of the epp group. the epp group appreciates the document drawn up by the commission and will support its adoption during the hungarian presidency. we believe that for the strategy to be implemented effectively, three main things are needed: a list of priorities and joint projects, coordination at commission level and adequate funding to get to the end we all want. why a priority list? because there must be this list for all the countries involved, a list of projects to be implemented jointly, simultaneously, to contribute to the increase of the economic development of the region and, implicitly, to its attractiveness. all partners need to implement these clearly defined projects, which have a common set of priorities and are applied simultaneously by all actors involved. coordination: the european union's experience with the baltic sea strategy has shown the need for an appropriate framework to be established at union level in order to ensure the coherence of the strategy. the coordination structure should not affect regional and local responsibilities, but should ensure the implementation of agreed priorities. it is true that we do not need more funds, new institutions or new legislation, but we do need a strategy based on a common list of priorities, good coordination and effective funding. this plan must be implemented and, to the resources already provided for in the structural programmes, the contribution of the states concerned must be added, as well as the possibility of relocating the unexpended funds from other segments. commissioner, you have proposed a contract for the future of cohesion policy. perhaps you could repeat this exercise for the implementation of the danube strategy.
with the accessions of 2004 and 2007, it has become legitimate to speak of the danube region as an area of the european union. as a result, following the request of the european council in june 2009, the commission has developed the strategy for the danube region: i would like to congratulate the document on its focus on 11 key areas which will lead, if properly implemented, to sustainable development, job creation and security in the area. i believe that one of the conditions for the success of this strategy is to overcome the difficulties between the different regions through intensive financial and institutional cooperation and better access to existing funds at regional level. last but not least, one factor that may play a major role in its success is energy. fragmentation of energy markets leads to high costs and lack of real competition. i therefore advocate diversifying supply through genuine interconnections and regional markets, which can ensure greater energy security.
the european danube strategy, modelled on the baltic sea strategy, is a means of coordinating eu policies in a number of areas. the strategy will have to respond to the challenges facing the countries in the area: economic and social disparities between the different regions of the danube countries, the intensification of shipping traffic, climate change, cultural diversity, environmental problems and biodiversity. in this respect, i believe that the european danube strategy will be a platform for constant dialogue between the member states and non-member states of the european union and an instrument for achieving long-term benefits at national, regional and local levels. we want a real strategy, based on new technologies, innovation and investment, a strategy which, once implemented, will ultimately lead to an improvement in the quality of life for all european citizens in the danube region.
member of the commission. - mr president, i have to say something. i am afraid that this will not be possible in the short term, but let me address two or three points. one is the question of navigability. this is a problem for which we must find a sensible, ecologically acceptable and economically viable solution. there are two approaches that can be combined intelligently. firstly, we must work intensively on the development of hulls and the like, in order to reduce energy consumption and pollution of the river beds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the mediterranean is not the same as the atlantic, and vice versa. we know that the average distance for freight transport is about 800 kilometres, and i am convinced that if there are adequate attractive offers, even that distance will be reduced. it is therefore also interesting to consider whether we can implement or offer adequate offers here, also in terms of the size of the vessel, depending on the sections of the route. one issue that will also be important in this context and has been raised on several occasions is that of multilevel governance. we can already try something here that we will then want to do very intensively with a view to planning for the next programming period, namely that all sections of society really participate in the development, but especially also in the implementation of this strategy. i agree with mrs kadenbach and others. there is an incredible enthusiasm here that needs to be channeled, bundled, so to speak, to create a corresponding added value. we feel that there is a great enthusiasm, a passion, among the people. we must now implement together what we have already promised, so to speak. i can only appeal again that we actually implement the agreed actions envisaged. i would like to emphasize at the outset that there is in principle, at least for the time being, enough money. it is a question of actually using the money available and creating a corresponding added value for the danube and the 115 million citizens who live there.
in writing. the danube has long been a natural border between states and regions, but also an untapped energy and transport opportunity. the danube strategy starts from the principle of reducing these internal barriers, to their elimination in order to improve cooperation between the riverine countries. the danube river basin is the backbone of a sustainable macro-regional construction. the european strategy in this area targets european communities, regions and states, harmonising their needs for economic, social and cultural development while respecting the environmental norms of the danube's natural habitat. the uniform development of this macro-region will contribute to reducing the gaps between regions and facilitate the achievement of the european objective of territorial cohesion. the strategy will provide a platform for strengthening partnerships between authorities at different levels, but also between authorities, the private sector and civil society. without the concrete training of all those mentioned, the realisation of such a complex and comprehensive structure as the danube strategy will remain only a wish. the development of a regional energy market is another area of interest for the danube countries. strategic interconnections between neighbouring states will have a positive impact on energy security and environmental protection, taking into account the sustainable energy potential of the danube macro-region.
member of the commission. − mr president, clearly there is a general appreciation of the progress that has been made in the application of stem cells for therapeutic purposes. we agree that this needs to be encouraged. the issues as raised by the honourable members are firstly on information and secondly on storage. as far as information is concerned, it is important – as we all agree – to provide accurate and objective information to parents and to the general public about the advantages and limitations of the use of stem cells, including cord blood stem cells. providing such information is the competence of the member states, which sometimes vary in opinion and policy regarding the advantages and limitations, as well as the uses, of stem cells. many member states already have in place information campaigns and other information activities. the commission encourages member states to take such actions. as to storage, we know that private firms already offer parents the service of storing cord blood cells. however, several member states have established public cord blood banks based on altruistic and voluntary cord blood donation. eu law on tissues and cells regulates all tissue establishments, whether public or private. it specifies principles of voluntary and unpaid donation, anonymity, altruism of the donor and solidarity between donor and recipient. in 2004, the european group on ethics recommended public storage of cord blood banks to ensure solidarity access to all patients in need.
in writing. the global market for umbilical cord stem cells was worth approximately eur 3.34 billion in 2010. future projections, based on an annual increase of around 27% over the next period, show that it will reach eur 11 billion by 2015. with stem cells seemingly the new 'el dorado' of health research, many researchers are rushing to tackle this niche without ensuring that they meet all the quality and safety standards required for these procedures. i believe that the commission needs to step up its efforts to inform patients and healthcare professionals about the benefits of cord blood stem cell collection, and to make a special effort to ensure that the commission's minimum standards of quality and safety for the donation, procurement, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues are and will be respected in all member states.
in december 2010, the unemployment rate in the eu27 stood at 9.6%, with 23 million unemployed. compared with last year, the unemployment rate increased in two thirds of the member states. young people and women are the most affected by the economic crisis. for women, the unemployment rate in the eu-27 rose to 9.6% and for young people to 21%. in some countries, such as spain, slovenia, and lithuania, it was as high as 35 percent. also, only 50% of people over 60 are still in the workforce. the main concern of european citizens remains work. i call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to make social europe a reality. european citizens seek decent work, with a wage from which they can live decently, and access to good quality social and health services. i ask the commission and the member states to give priority to allocating financial resources to measures that can create jobs, such as industrial development, in the european union.
i salute the civil movements of the tunisians and egyptians who have succeeded in overthrowing two dictatorial regimes that have been entrenched for several decades. the concern for the future of the arab region, on whose stability the global balance depends, must be matched by a greater concern for the welfare of citizens, both in europe and outside the european union. since the beginning of the economic crisis, the priority has been to save the financial and banking system and to ensure the balance of the state budget. but the burden of the recession is causing unpredictable effects with major geopolitical impact. in tunisia and egypt, rising food prices and unemployment have deepened the exasperation with dictatorial regimes. the lack of perspective and the increasingly oppressive present also influence the mood of citizens in some member states, especially in the east and south of the european union. i think it's time to pay more attention to people's living standards, otherwise we risk seeing unexpected manifestations of discontent from a population that is constantly being asked to make sacrifices.
this regulation constitutes a step forward in the progressive achievement of the co2 emission reduction targets for european light commercial vehicles. this will be achieved by creating incentive mechanisms for vehicle efficiency and imposing penalties on manufacturers who do not meet these targets. i do not think, however, that the new co2 legislation should endanger either the car manufacturers or the car buyer. the new rules should take into account the concerns of smes and european car manufacturers who are demanding that the phasing in of pollution limits start after 2015, as the vehicles to be sold in 2014 are already in the development and production stages. 147 grams is an acceptable compromise compared to the figures that have been circulated. however, the commission must closely monitor the relationship between the car industry and users in order to assess the effect of this measure on prices and, by implication, on the activity of small businesses.
i appreciate the work done by the rapporteur, mr callanan, and by mr groote in bringing this report to fruition. this regulation will force car manufacturers to develop new green technologies and, although it seems a new burden for them, it may lead to increased competitiveness of the automotive industry in the world market. at the same time, it will contribute to the fulfilment of the co2 reduction commitments under the european union strategy. the compromise amendments agreed give manufacturers enough time to prepare for the implementation of new technologies and the commission to prepare an effective mechanism for the prosecution of infringements in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, first a brief remark to mr pargneaux who asked what the plan was for next few years. first, of course, as we have agreed, the commission must assess the progress made and ascertain whether things are feasible. that is what we have all agreed, but, of course, we have reason to believe that it is feasible because our impact assessment has already demonstrated this. we are aware of the cost and consequences of whatever we do, and the level we choose to impose. so we believe that it will be feasible but we are, of course, looking into this. i would just like to say that reopening the debate as to the 2020 target could lead to uncertainty in planning, so, of course, we should now stress that a long-term target has been set. many manufacturers appreciate that because that gives them the long-term planning that they really need, the predictability that they need. in the end, they appreciate that. that was also an answer to mr vlasák and his concerns. just a brief remark to mr nuttall – i do not know if he is still here – or rather to mr nuttall’s father, because he has absolutely nothing to worry about, except that his son is using figures from a source i am not familiar with. the fact is that the cost of doing this is much less than mr nuttall claimed and the money saved in fuel consumption is greater than the cost. so, in the end, mr nuttall’s father will not only save money, but will have a net gain. he can also explain that his children and his grandchildren will have cleaner air. at the same time, what we are trying to do here is to boost innovation in a very important industrial sector for europe. this is what we are trying to do. wrapping up this debate, i would just say that we have the benefit of the wide-ranging experience we have gained in the field of car legislation. in every case, it turned out that the manufacturers could comply with legislation faster and with less expenditure than they had claimed. i would not be surprised if the same thing happens with vans. so regulation for cars is in place. now it is the turn of vans. i appreciate the very broad support for this piece of legislation. the next thing we have to look into in this field will be heavy-duty vehicles and there, of course, i greatly look forward to working in cooperation with the european parliament.
in writing. – the agreement which has been reached with council is the result of tough negotiations in the face of intense lobbying from industry. throughout the whole process, we have resisted heavy pressure from manufacturers to weaken the regulation, and in particular to reduce the ambition of the long-term co2 reduction targets. it was a difficult dilemma, as many of us have car industries which are already struggling because of the economic context. but we knew from our experience with the passenger cars regulation that the car industry has made enormous progress in terms of innovation and developing cleaner technology because the legislative framework encouraged them in the right direction. we wanted to repeat this success with legislation for vans – not just for environmental reasons, but because greater fuel efficiency will ultimately bring costs down for many businesses. we have a compromise text which, although not as ambitious as we would have liked, will lead to a significant reduction in co2 emissions from vans and contribute to the eu’s emission reduction ambitions for 2020 and beyond. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and shadows on their successful negotiations with the council.
in writing. the regulation voted today is a very important success, being the first time that the rights of passengers on buses and coaches will be protected by law. after two years of difficult negotiations, the european parliament and the member states have agreed on the key points that strengthen passenger rights on this transport route. these include compensation for delayed or cancelled travel, compensation for lost or damaged luggage, and liability of companies and assistance in the event of accidents. non-discrimination and assistance to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, and the right of travellers to be informed before and after a journey have been introduced in the regulation as fundamental rights that will apply regardless of the distance travelled. the regulation does not impose new technical requirements but requires carriers to assume responsibility for their passengers. we have also taken into account the current economic situation and its effect on the companies concerned by this regulation, by providing for a derogation period of 4 years, renewable once. i believe that, once it enters into force in 2013, this regulation will contribute to achieving the objective of harmonising and strengthening passenger rights at european level, irrespective of the means of transport chosen.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, at the request of baroness ashton, the hungarian presidency of the council is representing the high representative and vice-president of the commission during this debate. baroness ashton, as you may know, is travelling in northern africa and in the middle east this week. i wish to thank you for raising the issue of the situation of human rights and the rule of law in russia. despite some very positive signals from president medvedev last year, the actual human rights situation in russia and, in particular, in the northern caucasus region, remains deeply preoccupying. violence, harassment and intimidation against activists, lawyers and independent journalists are of great concern to us. the number of cases to support this statement is unacceptably high. the brutal attacks on russian journalists oleg kashin and anatoly adamchuk and environmental activist konstantin fetisov are among the latest reminders of the climate of insecurity and intimidation that journalists, activists and human rights defenders in russia face in their day-to-day work. despite assurances at the highest levels, the perpetrators are rarely brought to justice and sentenced. accountability for violence and intimidation against human rights defenders – let me mention the cases of mrs estemirova, mrs politkovskaya, mrs barburova and mr markelov among a great number of others – remains an important test for the independence and efficiency of russia’s judiciary. as long as the crimes remain unsolved, a climate of impunity will continue to prevail. there are, however, also positive developments. i should mention here the moscow city council’s decision to authorise peaceful and regular demonstrations – which were forbidden until last year – such as those in support of article 31 or the day of press rallies. we have welcomed this decision. at the same time, we continue to receive reports about arbitrary arrests of peaceful demonstrators, including opposition leaders, at these very same authorised demonstrations, as well as others across the country. this is a matter of serious concern to us. freedom of speech and freedom of assembly and association are preconditions for the development of modern societies. all of these freedoms are enshrined in the constitution of the russian federation. they also form part of the commitments that russia has entered into as a member of the united nations, the osce and the council of europe. the eu urges russia to uphold its commitments and guarantee this right to citizens. president medvedev has asked his presidential human rights council to examine the khodorkovsky, lebedev and magnitsky cases. we very much welcome this decision. the eu has made no secret of its serious concerns with the way these cases have been handled. president medvedev has often spoken out against what he has termed the legal nihilism prevailing in russia. the eu stands ready to support russia’s efforts to overcome this, starting with the reform of its judicial system. convinced that real modernisation needs established respect for the rule of law and its equal and fair application, we have put the rule of law at the core of our partnership for modernisation. in this context, concrete activities have already been prepared – for example the setting up of an appeal system for civil and criminal court cases in russia – in close cooperation with the president’s administration and the council of europe. we are ready to work with russia on this, as well as on new projects on corruption and the hague conventions. the situation in the northern caucasus is particularly worrying and needs urgent action. we welcome the new strategy for economic and social development and the efforts by deputy prime minister khloponin, but much more needs to be done to provide a lasting response to the barbaric acts of terrorism against civilians. the continuing immunity and impunity of security forces operating in chechnya is fuelling grievances and terror in the region and is a source of deep preoccupation for us. we pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives and to those who have fallen victim to aggression because of their professions or beliefs, as well as the courageous ones who cannot be deterred from their civil engagement in such a precarious environment. overall, the current report has not been a very positive one. however, there are positive signs in the situation of human rights in russia. these are often offset by backward developments and overall have not been enough to achieve real improvements, but we must not be discouraged. the significant body of european court of human rights case law provides an important incentive for the development of russian law with regard to respect for human rights. we are engaged in a serious dialogue with russia on human rights. russia accepts this and, of course, also uses it to criticise what it sees as imperfections in the eu. we will continue with that dialogue. there is no alternative.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the model of power-sharing between the state and the members of society determines the content of political decisions, while the predictability of the decision-making process and the correct enforcement of decisions are guaranteed by the honesty, professionalism and independence of the judiciary. the european union and russia can do business together only if there is compatibility between their power-sharing models, their decision-making mechanisms and their judiciary systems. the achievement of such compatibility is an exercise in partnership and cooperation, in consensus, confidence and interoperability-building, not in advocacy, lecturing and finger-pointing. russia is a full member of the council of europe and a signatory to the european convention on human rights. consequently, it is the council of europe that has competence to look into the functioning of democracy and the rule of law in russia. the european union should therefore rely on the council of europe in order to achieve, together with russia, a common area of freedom, democratic security and justice. moreover, since the european union is itself on the way towards accession to the european convention on human rights, it should use its future status as a party to that convention to accelerate convergence and interoperability with russia in the field of democracy and the rule of law. years ago, when the european parliament had little more power than a militant ngo, its only tools were the rhetoric of naming and shaming. today, after lisbon, we are a powerful political institution. this imposes on us more responsibility, pragmatism and self-restraint. we should not let ourselves be led by emotions. we should not be casual with our values either. we are not allowed to be simultaneously prosecutor and judge. we should not act on the basis of mere allegations, rumours or various interest lobby groups. our credibility, generated by the fairness and maturity of our approach, as well as our firmness and openness, is the best weapon we have in our dialogue with russia at a time when our citizens have instructed us to develop a strategic partnership with russia, not to restart the cold war.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, first of all i wish to thank all the members for the pertinent questions they raised during the debate. i very much share the concerns expressed here by many of you. i believe that the european union as a whole will have to continue raising these concerns at all levels with our russian interlocutors. we should not shy away from speaking directly when we have real and concrete issues to raise. if we are to act as strategic partners – and i believe that we are strategic partners of russia – we must also be prepared to tackle difficult issues. two things in particular delighted me during this discussion. the first is that nobody questioned the fact that russia is an important strategic partner for the european union. second, there was a general consensus in this room that modernisation and the establishment of a fully-fledged democracy and the rule of law has not yet finished in russia, and there are many problems with the workings of democracy there. i will certainly bring all the points raised to the attention of the high representative in order for us to follow through the various means at our disposal. i am sure the coming visit of the russian government to brussels on 24 february will provide us with a good opportunity to reiterate our concerns. russia is a permanent issue on the agenda of the foreign affairs council. you may know that since last year a regular european council meeting has been dedicated to discussing issues with our strategic partners. this happened first – and most recently – in september 2010, and i think mr van rompuy will do the same in the course of this year. i shall now answer some of the specific questions members have put to me. first, on ms hautala’s question on human rights, i would point out that the high representative takes parliament’s resolution of december 2010 very seriously. the circumstances surrounding the deaths in pre-trial detention of sergei magnitsky and vera trifonova must be duly investigated and the foreign affairs council will of course pay special attention to that. we continue to raise these and other concerns at all levels, not only in the twice-yearly human rights consultations, but up to summit level, insisting on russia upholding international commitments. any decision on restrictive measures would be for the council to take. such instruments should be wielded wisely on the basis of clear evidence. first of all we keep calling on russia to ensure a proper investigation. i would say to ms oomen-ruijten that human rights are at the core of the negotiations on the new agreement and will be addressed on a number of fronts. we can assure you that the commitments of the eu and of russia to uphold human rights, including those of persons belonging to minorities, will figure very prominently in this agreement and indeed constitute an essential element of the future agreement. in conclusion, i will briefly sum up some of my previous points. the rule of law and independence of the judiciary must remain an integral part of the modernisation effort currently under way in the russian federation. the european union must stand ready to support russia in these efforts. freedom of speech, assembly and association are the building blocks on which all western democracies rest. russia should uphold the legal commitments which it has entered into as a member of the council of europe, the united nations and the osce. the north caucasus region remains a source of deep concern for us. we must encourage russia to seek a sustainable solution to this endemic problem in the region. the important thing to bear in mind is that, in spite of the many concerns we have and the number of challenges russia is currently facing, there have also been a number of positive developments. we must take president medvedev at his word and continue to engage in a serious dialogue with russia on human rights. so if there are cases, we have to be alerted and we have to follow what is happening in russia very closely. thank you very much for your valuable comments. the high representative will be duly informed of your opinion.
in writing. the international press has covered the case of mikhail khodorkovsky extensively and indeed everything seems to indicate that this case has been politically instrumentalized. recent statements by the press officer of judge danilkin clearly indicate the lack of judicial independence in russia. on the other hand, it is important to stress that this is not an isolated case. on the contrary, ngos operating in russia regularly report that fair trial standards are not respected in russia. moreover, in september 2010, the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe called on the moscow authorities to adopt reforms to ensure the independence of the judiciary and to end the harassment of lawyers. finally, it is important to highlight the critical situation in the north caucasus, a region where impunity reigns and where, worse still, victims are afraid to defend themselves, lest they put themselves in even more danger. it is clear that if the russian authorities are to be credible in their stated intention to respect the rule of law, they must make more efforts than they have so far.
in writing. – the rule of president medvedev and prime minister putin is not compatible with the rule of law. for more than 10 years putin and medvedev tolerated, and possibly protected, an appalling catalogue of abuses and crimes, including stage-managed trials, press control and political murder. the horrendous record of lawlessness in russia is not a question of private delinquency. the real problem is state-sponsored lawlessness. the russian justice system, and indeed the russian state, never dealt with crimes aimed at journalists, human rights campaigners and whistle-blowers in the army or in the judiciary. the lawlessness in russia was regarded for too long as an accident or as a problem beyond state control. eu policy should hold the russian authorities responsible for their collusion with criminal elements. recent developments seem to indicate that the second khodorkhovsky trial was conducted at the behest of high political figures. the extrajudicial record of the russian state is already a tradition. the eu policy should take stock of this deplorable practice. the usual soft eu rhetoric is not appropriate. it should be replaced by a resolute policy, including credible warnings that future cooperation with russia requires an immediate improvement in russian law enforcement.
in writing. − this revised agreement brings a number of changes, notably with regard to the development of democratic principles and cooperation on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i welcome the initiative to give priority to operations that contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs), namely: strategies to reduce poverty, improve living and working conditions and create new jobs. i believe that there must be a thorough political dialogue on the fight against terrorism, money laundering, the financing of terrorism and organised crime, and the fight against the manufacture, trade and accumulation of arms. they also argue that we should also focus on developing cooperation to strengthen the education and health sectors. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i consider the agreement on the european union's aviation relations with brazil to be a solid legal basis and an important first step towards strengthening eu-brazil aviation relations. i believe that this agreement allows them to further strengthen their cooperation in the field of aviation and to start negotiating a comprehensive bilateral air services agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the abolition of border controls with liechtenstein is necessary and normal, given both the size of this state and its relations with its neighbours, austria and switzerland, with whom it has a tradition of free movement. in addition, liechtenstein's effective association with the schengen and dublin acquis will be a natural consequence, as it has already implemented much of the community legislation and uses the same sis and vis access infrastructure as switzerland, which is already part of the schengen area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement as rapporteur of the european parliament. it will lead to the abolition of the visa requirement for holders of diplomatic, service and official passports in relation to brazil for citizens of four member states, namely estonia, latvia, malta and cyprus. i believe that the agreement represents a significant step towards the establishment of full visa reciprocity for all european citizens in relation to third countries. efforts towards full reciprocity should continue with a view to visa-free travel with canada and the usa for nationals of five member states: romania, bulgaria, the czech republic, cyprus and poland.
in writing. − i voted in favour of giving the ep consent to conclude the two visa-waver agreements with brazil. at present, brazilian citizens do not need a visa to enter the eu, while citizens of estonia, latvia, malta, and cyprus do need a visa to enter brazil. these agreements will ensure the application of the principle of reciprocity regarding visa wavers between the eu and brazil.
in writing. − the services directive will in no way lead, as some parties speculate, to deregulation or liberalisation of the services sector. its objective is to ensure access to national markets so that arbitrary obstacles are removed and the rules that remain in force in the member states are proportionate and non-discriminatory. the directive explicitly states that neither labour law nor workers will be affected by these legislative provisions. parliament itself insisted on this, imposing its view on the council. article 16 provides that no member state is prevented from imposing certain requirements in respect of a service activity where this is justified on grounds of public policy, public safety and public health or the protection of the environment. there are delays in the implementation of the directive in some member states, but these are mainly due to different interpretations of the directive. it is therefore important that the scope of the directive is clear and transparent. it is necessary not only to draw a clear line between the services covered by the directive and services of general interest, but also to ensure the protection of services of economic interest by means of a legislative framework to that end.
in writing. − the services directive is a key step towards a true single market for services, which will enable businesses, especially smes, to provide citizens with better services at competitive prices. i supported the rapporteur's view that the establishment of one-stop shops is an essential element for the effective implementation of this directive. this tool can be of great importance for small and medium-sized enterprises. the single window should provide accurate, complete and comprehensive information on formalities, administrative procedures, labour law, tax regimes in force in the member states, in particular as regards vat, etc. in addition, business people should be assisted in carrying out the necessary administrative procedures. i consider that, after the completion of transposition, it is essential to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the services directive on economic activity, the qualitative and quantitative level of employment, social protection, the achievement of environmental objectives and the quality of services provided to consumers.
in writing. − in the european union, over 70 million europeans travel by bus and coach each year. from now on, as a result of the european parliament's strong position on the rights of people travelling by bus or coach, transport operators will provide information, assistance and compensation throughout the union to respect the rights of passengers. whatever means of transport they use, europeans are now protected at european level. i support this report which regulates overbooking of buses and coaches or departures more than two hours late for distances longer than 250 kilometres and cancellation of trips. i also believe that the policy of non-discrimination towards people with reduced mobility is reflected in a set of basic rights regarding assistance at bus stops and bus stations, including free transport for certain equipment such as wheelchairs. i voted in favour of this report which supports the rights of disabled people and people with reduced mobility, such as non-discriminatory access to transport, the right to compensation for loss or damage to wheelchairs or other mobility equipment.
in writing. − the european parliament voted on tuesday to add the missing link to european passenger rights legislation, which is to be applied in a uniform way from spring 2013. it was a difficult negotiation, but it will cover all national or crossborder road transport services over distances of more than 250 km. standards for road transport needed to be standardised as it is increasingly used by european citizens, being cheaper and more advantageous for short distances not covered by air transport. in the context of european traffic, it is normal that the compensatory rules applied to air transport, long since standardized, have a counterpart in road transport. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. every passenger, whether by air or by road, should know his rights, especially when he is paying for one service and sometimes receiving something else entirely. i hope that not too many states will ask for a temporary exemption from these rules and that they will be applied uniformly from 2013.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the final text can be considered a very satisfactory and well-balanced compromise, as it manages to guarantee passenger rights without at the same time imposing too restrictive measures on carriers, most of which are small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − today, after two years of difficult negotiations with the member states, the european parliament voted to agree on a regulation that will cover all the rights of passengers using national or crossborder long-distance transport services. i voted in favour of this agreement because it contains 12 fundamental rights, which are very important for improving the quality of transport services. these relate in particular to the right of travellers to be informed before and during their journey, and to the needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. by introducing these rights, we will ensure non-discriminatory access to transport. in addition, this report contains passenger rights which i consider very important, namely mandatory compensation for lost luggage, reimbursement of a certain amount for death or bodily injury, and compensation of up to 50% of the ticket price, in addition to full ticket reimbursement, if an operator cancels a journey and is thus unable to honour his transport contract.
in writing. - i voted for the regulation on the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach. it sets out rights for passengers travelling by bus and coach comparable to those applicable to all other modes of transport. it applies to all scheduled, national and cross-border services with a scheduled distance of at least 250 km. these rights relate to non-discriminatory access to transport for disabled persons and to compensation in the event of death, personal injury or loss of or damage to baggage. if a journey is cancelled or delayed for more than 120 minutes, passengers will be offered either a re-routing to their final destination at no additional cost or a refund of the ticket price. if the carrier does not offer this option, passengers are entitled to compensation of up to 50% of the ticket price, in addition to reimbursement of the ticket price. if a journey of more than three hours is cancelled or delayed by more than 90 minutes, the operator must provide assistance and hotel accommodation, up to eur 80 per night per passenger, for a maximum of two nights. i ask that passengers be adequately informed of their rights in order to be able to claim infringements.
in writing. − i believe that this draft regulation is based on the premise that reducing the fuel consumption of light commercial vehicles will reduce the overall level of co2 emissions in the transport sector, thus mitigating climate change and thus setting co2 emission limits for new light commercial vehicles in the european union.
in writing. − this proposal is a follow-up to the community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles (lcvs), as follows: – from 2020 a long-tem target of 147g co2/km for the average emissions of new lcvs registered in the union, subject to confirmation of its feasibility. by 1 january 2013, after a complete review of them, a proposal will amend it, if appropriate; – the short-term target, fixed to 175g co2/km; a phasing-in period from 1 january 2014 onwards with full compliance of the new fleet from 2017;– specific emission target for alternative fuel vehicles will be incorporated, aimed at promoting further deployment of certain alternative-fuel vehicles in the union market; – for multi-stage vehicles, the specific emissions of co2 of completed vehicles will be allocated to the manufacturer of the base vehicle. the super-credits to manufacturers producing lcvs with emissions of co2 of less than 50g co2/km will be limited with a threshold of 25 000 lcvs per manufacturer. – the penalties: from 2019 onwards settled to €95, being phased in gradually from 1 january 2014 to 2018. helping manufactures to develop green technology for vans will be beneficial both for companies and job creation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation setting performance standards for new light commercial vehicles, as part of the european commission's integrated approach to reducing co2 emissions from light vehicles. we are thus encouraging vehicle manufacturers to use eco-innovation to ensure the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. the regulation imposes penalties on manufacturers of light commercial vehicles for exceeding the average specific emissions set by this regulation. i would point out that limiting emissions must not be approached only from the point of view of supply, for example how to upgrade light vehicles to be less polluting, but also from the point of view of demand. it is important that new vehicles complying with this regulation are accessible to consumers. the regulation thus allows both incentives for the production of fuel-efficient vehicles and penalties for manufacturers who do not meet the agreed targets. each member state shall be required, as from 1 january 2012, to record annually the information relating to each new light commercial vehicle registered in its territory and to ensure compliance with the provisions of this regulation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that the enhanced cooperation solution for the creation of the unitary patent is the best solution at the moment and i hope that, along the way, all member states will take part in it, for the benefit of european citizens. the single patent will substantially reduce administrative costs for small and medium-sized enterprises, encourage innovation and facilitate the creation of new jobs at a time when the eu increasingly needs them.
in writing. − the internal market is currently highly fragmented due to the high costs of patent protection in the union and european inventors cannot enjoy all the benefits of the single market. the difficult situation arises when they try to achieve an optimal level of protection throughout the union. this has a negative impact on the union's competitiveness, as innovative activities generate human capital that tends to be more mobile than in other areas. the current less favourable conditions for innovation reduce the attractiveness of the union for creation and innovation for both european and non-european inventors. i voted in favour of this recommendation because strengthening cooperation within a group of member states in the area of unitary patent protection will protect the interests of the union by improving its competitiveness and attractiveness for the rest of the world. the creation of unitary patent protection for a group of member states would also improve the degree of patent protection and eliminate the costs and complexity associated with those territories, which would facilitate scientific and technological progress and the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection because i consider it necessary to adopt measures for the creation of a unitary community patent. according to a 2011 thomson reuters report, "patented in china", china will surpass japan and the united states in the number of patents. thus, through the programme launched in 2006, china aimed to become an innovation-oriented country and managed to increase the number of patents by 14.1% compared to the us, 33.55% compared to the eu and 15.9% compared to japan. in the eu, the current patent system is fragmented and very costly in terms of translation requirements. the cost of an eu patent validated in 13 countries amounts to eur 20 000, of which approximately eur 14 000 is for translation costs alone. thus, a european patent costs 10 times more than a us patent. i believe that authorising enhanced cooperation for the creation of unitary patents can contribute to the development of a unitary patent attractive to users of the patent system in europe, provide protection for intellectual property throughout europe and eliminate costs and complications in order to stimulate research, development and innovative smes.
in writing. − this report sets maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination for food and feed following a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency. i agree that the european parliament must play a decisive role in situations which directly affect the health of the population. i also believe that in the aftermath of a nuclear accident or radiological emergency, the european commission should have a supervisory role, declaring a state of emergency and adopting lists of basic foodstuffs and feed. member states must maintain an official control system for these products and inform the public of the risks. i voted in favour of this report which guarantees the safety of european citizens' food in the event of nuclear accidents or radiological emergencies.
in writing. − i believe that eu member states are responsible for monitoring compliance with the levels set out in the framework of protection against radioactive contamination in this regulation, in particular by monitoring safety standards for both food and feed, but also by monitoring environmental parameters. i support the idea of a system allowing the eu to set maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination to ensure a high level of protection of public health following a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency.
mr president, the rapid developments in north africa and the middle east have shaken, i hope, our dolce far niente type of confidence that europe is so prosperous and secure that it does not have to fear any major security challenge. only this time, time has the bad habit of not stopping, and what appears impossible today suddenly becomes a reality tomorrow. the problem we are discussing is both technical and political. let me refer to the letter, which says that now, with the increasing numbers of refugees from north africa in the wake of the current revolutionary developments there, the eu is caught between its public support for them and the quiet necessity to keep its gates closed. all i want to say is that if we want to remain credible, the solution to our technical problem, which goes beyond money and police, should be consistent with our public pronouncements. therefore, harsh measures of the type some members have recently taken against people from other eu member states, if adopted, will only discredit the eu - this time not only internally but also externally.
member of the commission. − mr president, the green paper on pensions which we published last summer started a much needed debate on the future of pensions in europe. it resulted in more than 100 meetings and conferences with stakeholders and we received almost 1 700 responses. the green paper outlines the key challenges facing the union in this area, and asked fourteen questions about how work at eu level could help the member states in ensuring that pensions are adequate, sustainable and safe, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the green paper takes a holistic approach, because my fellow commissioners rehn and barnier and i are convinced that adequate, sustainable and safe pensions call for coordinated, joined-up policies spanning our three areas of responsibility. let me briefly restate the commission’s reasoning for publishing the green paper last year. first, we need to overcome the imbalances resulting from the increasing divergence between life expectancy and retirement ages. second, we need to adjust the european framework to reflect the changes that have come about in national pension systems after a decade of pension reforms. third, we must draw lessons from the financial and economic crisis. the crisis has highlighted the need to review financial market exposure and the design of our pension systems in order to improve risk mitigation and enhance the funded pension’s capacity for shock absorption. fourth, we need to fully prepare our pension systems for the acceleration of population ageing. the member states have already engaged in long-standing cooperation to learn from each other’s experiences and exchange good practice in pension reform. there is a consensus on the need for coordination at eu level and for establishing eu rules on cross-border issues. for the last 10 years, coordination at eu level has underpinned member states’ efforts to modernise the pension systems, and many member states have already made good progress in adapting the pension systems to reflect demographic ageing, changes in the labour markets and evolving gender roles. however, most member states have a long way to go and a few others have not even begun with pension reforms. i was pleased to read the report, on which i congratulate the rapporteur, which is highly supportive of the holistic approach we have chosen. in several places it highlights the links between adequacy, sustainability and safety. it also clearly identifies policy areas where the eu can add value. the commission is currently in the final stages of analysing the results of the consultation, including the final opinion of the european parliament. given the urgency of the situation, the commission has already started the preparations for the white paper to be presented in the third quarter of 2011. let me conclude by saying that one of the great successes of europe’s social model is to ensure that old age is not synonymous with poverty. this is a promise on which we have to continue to deliver and help member states to take the right decisions to ensure that pension systems are fit for purpose. the last 12 months have seen a lively debate in the field of pension reforms and this year promises to be equally intense. i very much count on parliament’s support to bring about a real change to create both adequate and sustainable pensions for the future.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on economic and monetary affairs. - the fact that we are talking about pensions today in the european parliament's plenary confirms their european value. the ageing of the population, the effects of the economic and financial crisis and the late entry of young people into the labour market require common solutions. but pensions remain a national responsibility, and the principle of subsidiarity sets the limits of european intervention. however, if member states better implement existing legislation at european level, we will benefit from a better functioning of the single market and encourage greater mobility of workers. also, for public pension systems to be sustainable, we need to ensure that people have the chance to stay in the workforce until retirement age. the increase in unemployment among member states is a worrying phenomenon, which threatens the principle of solidarity between generations. thus, pension reforms must go hand in hand with the promotion of employment policies. equally, pension reform should not be synonymous with depriving already vulnerable groups of a secure and decent income. states must not abdicate their duty to provide adequate pensions for all citizens. to avoid such abuse at national level, we have put forward the idea of defining an adequate pension at european union level. the requirement that member states guarantee a level of pensions in the first pillar above the poverty line is not, in my view, sufficient. i certainly understand the argument of the diversity of national contexts and the reluctance of states to allow for the involvement of the european union in the very heart of national sovereignty. however, i believe that the european courts must pay greater attention to the living conditions of european citizens. social discontent can have unintended consequences: two recent examples, outside the european union, speak to the tolerability of a population that is constantly sacrificed to the interests of national powers that pay little attention to the needs of citizens.
madam president, i would first like to say that the crisis and demography are combining to make us tackle this problem of pensions in all the member states of the european union. in this work, i would first of all like to welcome a working approach, that of the consultation which commissioner andor told us she had chaired in the preparation of this green paper, but also the work of consultation, openness and compromise which was put in place by ria oomen-ruijten to conduct this report. i would like to stress three points which we must take into account when solving the problem of pension solvency. the first is the inequality that women are now experiencing at retirement age because career inequality leads to poverty at retirement. the second point is that i want to see to it, commissioner, that the old age pension is saved. we are still facing a generation of poor women who have not worked during their working lives and for whom reversal is the only way to have a minimum pension. the third point is the entry of the younger generations into the labour market. they not only have to face the crisis, but also the burden of several generations that they have to bear: that of their children, their parents and their grandparents. finally, this raises the problem of the elderly, on which the time spent at work must be accelerated.
i think we have to be realistic to recognize that the current public pension systems based on the transfer of resources between generations, the so-called pay as you go principle, are no longer economically viable and, not being economically viable, require subsidies from public budgets to survive: the ageing of the population, the increasing mobility of the workforce only deepen the imbalances in these pension systems, and the proposed measures, whether raising the retirement age or increasing contributions, have limits and will be increasingly limited by social resistance to such measures. we will eventually have to recognize that the solution is to move to those pension systems where people during their working lives build up their own pension fund.
i would like to mention that, at the very beginning of this debate, the commissioner spoke of the successes of the european social model. one of them is the achievement of equal opportunities between women and men. i hope this report sends a clear message about mainstreaming gender equality in achieving a fair pension system. so let me emphasize two points. first, the assessment of the impact on society and women's employment of measures to recognise domestic work, including by calculating the financial value of such work for the purpose of calculating pensions. i call on the commission to initiate the procedure for the repeal of article 5 (2) of directive 113/2004, which allows discrimination against women in relation to pension products.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like again to congratulate all the committees that have been involved in the discussion and also in producing the reports. i realise that it is hard to bring the positions from so many different political and national backgrounds into line, but the votes in committees involved show that the reports have been met with wide support. this sends a clear signal to the commission on the follow-up to the green paper. i expect to publish a summary early next month with parliament’s opinion included. we will follow this up in the second half of 2011 with the white paper, which i mentioned in my earlier intervention, accompanied by a suitable impact assessment. this will give all stakeholders the opportunity once again to continue playing a part in the debate. the commissioners’ group on pensions already discussed last week possible policy options on how to update and improve the european framework on pensions. there was agreement that we should continue with the holistic approach to the pension reforms. as part of this, we need to continue a dialogue with the key stakeholders, both on possible new regulatory initiatives in such fields as portability, occupational pension schemes and insolvency protection and other softer forms of regulation, such as codes of good practice. we also decided to deal with the gender dimension in depth and also address it more extensively in the white paper than in the green paper. in the meantime, i would like to make sure that the green paper and the white paper do not get mixed up with other flying objects in the european sky. the commission has absolutely nothing in common with approaches that assume that there could be a uniform retirement age in the european union. diversity is key in the eu and it also applies to diversity of the demographic reality, and we have to study that more deeply now than before. we should also recognise that ongoing reforms carry new risks as they make future pensions far more dependent on long-term developments in the labour market and financial markets. this means that we need to create employment opportunities also for people with disabilities and increase the stability of financial systems. i look forward to continued work with parliament and its committees on this very important subject.
in writing. the most exposed pension system in the eu is the public one, based on solidarity between generations. but pensions are a property right and governments cannot violate them, whether there is a crisis or not, even though some governments, like the romanian one, feel free to do whatever they want with the amount of pensions and how they are calculated. demography is not working in our favour, so the sustainability of the system is a serious problem, but public pension systems are not funded by governments, but by contributors, social partners, employees and employers, whatever their nature. these systems are strongly affected by two phenomena: undeclared work and the inability of european economies to generate new jobs, with decent pay and a reasonable duration. with low-paid, precarious jobs, in the name of flexibilizing the labor market, public systems will be permanently in crisis. i find it encouraging that the european parliament's resolution on pension systems insists on discriminating against women in terms of pension amounts, even though the age of contributions and the length of contributions are becoming virtually equal to those of men. it is a first step toward righting an injustice, which must be followed by action.
in writing. the ageing of the population that europe has been experiencing in recent years is bringing about major changes in medicine, consumption habits, population structure and social security systems. in these circumstances, ensuring the future viability of pension systems is closely linked to the actual length of time eu citizens have been in the labour market. i welcome the fact that strategy 2020 supports an active and focused labour market policy, which will allow for an increase in employment for older workers, women, members of minority groups and the long-term unemployed. by achieving this, i believe that europe will see an increase in the number of people in the labour force and, by implication, economic growth with positive effects on the viability of pension systems at european level.
in writing. i believe that the eu needs to build an open single pension system that takes into account demographic trends and the issue of mobility. i'll give the example of my country. annual pension expenditure is the largest category of budget expenditure in romania. the state social security budget has been running annual deficits since 2006, reaching eur 1,5 billion in 2009. according to world bank estimates, by 2050, the pension deficit in gdp under the old system would have reached about 12 percent. therefore, by adopting law no 263/2010, romania has introduced a series of major reforms that will ensure the sustainability of the public pension system in the medium and long term. these include: - discouraging early retirement and invalidity pensions without medical justification; - increase in the number of contributors to the single public pension scheme; - gradual raising of the standard retirement age for men and women to 65 for men by 2015 and 63 for women by 2030.
in writing. the compromise reached is a balanced one and represents an important step forward for patient safety and health. the introduction of safety devices on the packaging of medicinal products is welcome. for these devices to be truly effective, it is very important that everyone in the supply chain is subject to stricter rules. the inclusion of brokers is undoubtedly a positive point. the compromise also strikes a balance between protecting patients' health and the costs that the new rules generate for drug manufacturers. it is very important to have a risk-based approach to these medicines. therefore, i consider that the restriction of new devices to prescription medicines is welcome. it would be disproportionate for manufacturers of medicinal products that are not the target of counterfeiting to bear the high costs of security devices. finally, the inclusion of online pharmacies is an important step forward for the safety of patients who tend to buy medicines online. we cannot allow forgers to take advantage of a legal vacuum, endangering the health of patients. the establishment of guarantees that a website is selling genuine medicines will be of great help to all patients using this way of buying.
member of the commission. − there are two sides to this issue. on the one hand, i recognise that the fund is doing fantastic work, reaching those most in need. there is no question about that. but on the other hand they are public funds. public funds are taxpayers’ money and one misappropriation or one fraud case could destroy the work of hundreds of thousands of people. so we need to find a solution very rapidly. my objective is to have the additional measures in place by the summer so that we can resume payments in the autumn. i believe that is doable. we have identified the areas where we need this: at national level. the central office is being well audited, and when we transfer money everything is in order, but when it comes down to implementation in a given country, there are too many risk elements. if you saw which countries were involved and the size of the specific budgetary envelopes for them, you would realise that the sums involved would be too huge to suspend payments, and we need the reforms to work very rapidly. if it is discovered next year that there are misappropriations, you would be the first to tell me that i knew about the cases and asking why i did not take action. then i would say that i was thinking only of sick people. that would not be a sufficient answer. if we sort this issue out in half a year, by the summer, then we will not have made any substantial impact on the functioning of the fund, but we will have lent greater credibility both to the fund and to the way eu taxpayers’ money is spent.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr higgins, the ce mark is the visible part of a mechanism which is of fundamental importance for the proper functioning of the internal market. the adoption of the new regulatory framework in 2008 has strengthened the reliability of the brand, in particular along three axes. first, by strengthening the control of the ec product certification system; secondly, by introducing market surveillance by national authorities, which must check the declarations of conformity of manufacturers and the certificates of third bodies authorising the affixing of the ce marking on products; thirdly, by obliging member states to strengthen customs controls so that only products which comply with the legislation are allowed to circulate on european and world markets. by providing the instruments for protecting the ce mark which were lacking until recently, the effective implementation of the new regulatory framework strengthens the credibility of the mark and thus the good reputation of the products bearing the mark on the european and, consequently, on the international market. moreover, the reinforced controls on imported products will ensure that there is less abuse of the ce marking also on the world market. furthermore, following an explicit request from the european parliament itself, the commission has successfully launched an information campaign on the trademark, aimed specifically at economic operators, with particular regard to small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers. the aim of the campaign is to help interested parties, and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to better understand the meaning of the mark and the functioning of the mechanism on which it is based, in order to apply the marking provisions correctly and to defend themselves better in court against counterfeiting or dangerous products. this will strengthen the competitiveness of european products. our agreements and dialogues with third countries, including mercosur and latin america, and in particular argentina, are aimed at promoting the regulatory and technical model underlying the ce mark. in my contacts with that part of the world, i intend to clarify these issues and, of course, to promote the solutions we have agreed to implement. i shall be in latin america in the spring and this issue will also be on the agenda of the meetings i will have with the representatives of the governments of the countries i will be visiting: brazil, argentina and chile. i would of course like to reiterate my commitment to ensuring, in close cooperation with you, that the mechanism underlying the ec mark functions properly and that the member states comply with their obligations to strengthen the competitiveness of our products. i will of course keep you regularly informed of developments in this area and remind you that the commission will review the situation and report to this parliament in 2013 as required by regulation 765/2008.
since you have spoken of the competitiveness of the european union and since i welcome your efforts to develop an industrial policy for the european union, i would like to ask you: what percentage of products on the european market bear the ce mark and what percentage of products on the european internal market are produced in china?
i would like to extend my colleague's question a little and ask the commissioner whether there is also a strategy on equal opportunities, and i am referring here to the recruitment of people from the new member states to middle and senior management positions in the european institutions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, we could certainly call the political situation in albania today a stalemate. sometimes calmer, at other times violent, this crisis has no end. last year, this parliament adopted a resolution calling on all domestic political players to find a negotiated political solution to the crisis and to build a minimum national consensus. this resolution was ignored by the political forces, and by the government especially. likewise, the recommendations of the commission and of the council are being disregarded at this moment in time. it is inadmissible that exercising the right to rally and to protest in a country plagued by corruption be described as a coup d’état. it is inadmissible that the credibility of the state institutions – the presidency, public attorney and others – be undermined by statements by the head of government. it is inadmissible that those who shoot civilian demonstrators be called heroes of the nation and promised an amnesty. new local elections will take place soon. in the present circumstances, they will be a political test for all political stakeholders. we ask commissioner füle and managing director lajčák to do their best in order to assure international assistance and international monitoring of these elections in such a way as to make sure that they will be free and fair, or at least that we could assess their freedom and their fairness. we support the commission approach, and that of commissioner füle in particular. we support the action by mr lajčák. we have to ask all political forces to bring this crisis to an end, because the alternative is the isolation of albania and the jeopardising of its european perspectives.
mr president, i welcome the statement by the commissioner. i would also like to emphasise the contribution made by mr lajčák in trying to identify solutions for overcoming the dramatic situation. the recent demonstrations in tunisia and egypt were certainly opposed by the local dictators who finally had to leave their country – but without major violence and executions like those in tirana as witnessed by the media. as for prime minister berisha’s allegations that the demonstrations were nothing more than a coup d’état led by the opposition, the president of albania, the prosecutor general and the head of the secret services – all appointed under mr berisha’s leadership – are these people all now socialists or is something wrong with mr berisha? i would like here to quote thomas countryman, a deputy assistant secretary at the us department of state, who publicly rejected the hypothesis that what happened on 24 january was a coup d’état. we need to be committed and as effective as the united states and nato right now in trying to push, assist and help the two albanian sides reach a negotiated solution, but i also call on all my colleagues who are giving mr berisha their unconditional support to stop their one-sided approach. it is important to put pressure on both sides so that the two blocs finally reach a solution. up until now, only one side has shown some readiness to implement both the european parliament resolution and the 12 proposals you mentioned before, commissioner. i call on the commission to be strong and committed towards an agreement based on the european parliament resolution and the 12 conditions you mentioned before, bearing in mind that without complete agreement from both sides, albania’s european integration process might be completely frozen.
the tense situation in albania since late january demonstrates the importance of maintaining certain limits in political discourse. the escalating power-opposition feud has led to the loss of human life. i stress that in a democratic state, these conflicts must not pass through the gates of parliament. they don't belong on the street. the attack by organized opposition groups on the government building to gain power by force is a serious matter, and the conspiracy of some authorities to hide the guilty is unacceptable. that's why i'm calling on the albanian opposition leaders to return to the parliamentary procedure. the 2009 elections were fair and political parties have a duty to respect the will of the people. compromising the institutions of the state is not the solution to expressing one's beliefs or grievances.
the situation of illegal wiretapping and interception in bulgaria is very serious, but even worse is that it is not the only case of its kind in the european union. commissioner, this debate should have been about another member country, romania. in romania in 2011, it was decided that the interception of private conversations could be done without any legal cover, although both the constitution, national laws and european legislation absolutely prohibit any kind of intrusion into private life without a serious reason and with the explicit authorization of a judge. abusive recording of conversations between journalists, politicians, internal conversations in opposition party meetings or closed court sessions, systematic and repeated violation of the fundamental right to privacy. the prosecutors' preferred method of investigation has become illegal wiretapping. the secret services are constantly monitoring the phone calls of political opponents of the current power. the situation is of great gravity and i call for urgent intervention by the european commission to maintain the rule of law and democracy in the two member states.
today, 1.4 billion people in the world lack access to electricity, 85 percent of them living in rural areas. the millennium development goals to eradicate poverty by 2015 will not be achieved without substantial progress on energy access. achieving this goal by 2015 means that 395 million people will have access to electricity and 1 billion people will have access to sanitary cooking facilities. all of this will require annual investments of about $40 billion between 2010 and 2015, representing 0.6% of global gdp. universal access to electricity is one of the most important goals set by governments in developing countries. barriers to electrification identified include high costs for providing electricity to rural areas and to suburban housing, lack of fiscal or financial incentives, weak capacity to develop and implement electrification projects, and limited electricity generation capacity. rural areas have a particular energy situation. in these areas, not only the energy needed must be secured, but the process of producing it, which also ensures job creation and economic and social development. on 11 february 2011, a world bank report showed that local renewable energy production at low production prices is more economically viable in the long term. this can play an important role in increasing india's energy security, reducing energy imports and reducing the influence of oil price fluctuations. the world bank could therefore be a partner for developing countries. i believe that the world bank should support projects to increase energy efficiency, local production of renewable energy, as well as large-scale electrification and interconnection projects between different countries.
in writing. accelerating the croatian accession negotiations brings the prospect of eu integration within reach in the south east european region. in addition to croatia, the other western balkan states are also optimistic about the future of europe. this will bring stability, irreversibility of the democratization process and economic growth to a region with a difficult historical heritage. i appreciate the efforts of the croatian government to tackle corruption, to use european funds properly, to close the negotiating chapters that are still open. important progress has also been made in improving relations with neighbouring countries. i am a consistent supporter of croatia's accession to the eu as soon as possible, as i am particularly attentive to the fate of the hungarian community in croatia as the hungarian representative in romania. it would be a great pleasure for me to welcome another hungarian community abroad to the european union soon. the european parliament should clearly support croatia's accession aspirations. it is not necessary to relax the requirements, but to promote compliance with the requirements. i agree with my colleagues who are asking the european commission to set further dates for the closure of the process as soon as possible and to close the accession chapters during the hungarian presidency.
strategy 2020 includes targets that cannot be achieved without giving due weight to areas that are not explicitly mentioned. a dynamic, competitive and effective european agricultural sector is needed in its contribution to stimulating sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. reliable food production, sustainable management of natural resources, and the maintenance of territorial balance and diversity of rural areas are indispensable elements of an effective common agricultural policy and a productive agricultural sector. infrastructure cannot be excluded from industrial policy. the implementation of the single railway area is an essential step in the liberalisation of rail transport. equally important are the completion of the 'single european sky' and the swift implementation of the sesar project. one of the most important factors is the development of trans-european networks, not only in the field of transport but also in the energy sector, by allocating adequate financial resources to projects with added value for europe. the nabucco project, for example, will benefit all member states by eliminating the european union's reliance on a single source.
by promoting coordinated structural reforms at member state level, strategy 2020 should pave the way towards a new model of economic growth in europe. i believe that these reforms are indispensable for all member states in view of the high level of youth unemployment. we also need to support small and medium-sized enterprises to realise their full potential to create new jobs. the inclusion of economic growth, the social objective and the fight against poverty in the list of objectives of the european union are also important for europe, because their achievement will help to ensure the economic independence of the european union. last but not least, i believe that the 2020 strategy must be accessible to european citizens, because they must understand the responsibilities of all those involved in its implementation, national, local and regional authorities, to which the contribution of european citizens must be added.
in writing. i reaffirm the importance of developing as soon as possible all the technical aspects of the 'youth on the move' initiative. it is vital that the over 100 million young people in the union have the necessary means and the appropriate tools to contribute to the 2020 targets. i appreciate that the lifelong learning system and the integration of young people into such a system is the basic coordinate for intelligent and sustainable growth, for ensuring a healthy life for future adults. ensuring a high quality of higher education and supporting the involvement of young people in research and development can ensure the success of the drive to increase economic competitiveness. new activities can be developed taking into account the creative potential of young people. furthermore, i believe that presenting employment opportunities alongside high quality training can ensure much better chances for integration into the labour market. it is therefore necessary to have the technical details of this initiative as soon as possible in order to be able to start the activities necessary to make the most of this year, the european year of volunteering.
in writing. – the eu 2020 strategy should help europe recover from the crisis and come out stronger, through jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth based on five eu headline targets as regards promoting employment. a strong social protection system, investment in active labour market policies and education and training opportunities for all are essential to reduce unemployment and prevent long term exclusion. the flexicurity is not applicable in member states with low possibilities of strengthening social protection systems due to budget restrictions and macroeconomic imbalances, as in romania, and i consider that reducing labour market segmentation has to be achieved by providing adequate security for workers under all forms of contracts. any labour market reforms must be introduced by reaching a high degree of social consensus through agreements with the social partners at national and eu level. a legislative agenda is essential to eradicate the existing pay gap between women and men by 1% every year in order to achieve the target of 10% reduction by 2020. the eu 2020 strategy should include a target of reducing poverty amongst women in the eu as 17 % of the women are classed as living in poverty, mostly single mothers, immigrants and older women.
in writing. the eu 2020 strategy should be supported by the 2014-2020 financial framework. transport, energy and communications are the backbone of the european economy. investment in these areas will create jobs and ensure economic and social development. the union's industrial policy is a key element of the eu 2020 strategy. the development of industry and job creation within the eu will ensure the union's international competitiveness. in recent decades, the drive for profit of european companies has led to the relocation of industrial production to third countries with low production costs and the loss of jobs in the eu. a strong and well-funded cohesion policy, covering all european regions, must be a key complementary element of the eu 2020 strategy. this horizontal approach is a precondition for the successful achievement of the objectives proposed in the eu 2020 framework and for the achievement of social, economic and territorial cohesion. an example of this is the eu strategy for the danube region, which will contribute to prosperity, economic and social development and security in the region. as the main concern of european citizens remains workplace safety, i believe that the eu 2020 strategy will only succeed if social europe becomes a reality.
i would like to return to some of the points i raised in some of the amendments tabled with my colleague bernd posselt, which have been successfully passed in the committee on foreign affairs. first, i would like to reiterate the hope that the accession negotiations with croatia will be concluded in the first half of 2011, as announced in the programme of the hungarian presidency. from this point of view, it would be a symbolic gesture because it would be 20 years since the declaration of independence from the former yugoslav republic. such an end to the negotiations would also be a very strong signal to the other balkan candidate countries, given that, as we know, the union's attractiveness seems to be declining. finally, i would like to underline the determination of the croatian authorities to fight corruption and organised crime. it's a sign that, as we've seen before, corruption is not inevitable if there's political will.
in writing. − counterfeit medicines are a global threat. representatives of the world health organization (who) warn that counterfeit products do not contain the active ingredients listed in the package insert, but on the contrary, they are based on substances with a high degree of toxicity to the body. i believe that european citizens should be informed at both european and national level about the health risks of ordering products from various uncontrolled websites or from the illegal supply chain, given that the internet is one of the main ways for counterfeit medicines to enter the market in the eu. i support the new legislative proposal because it aims to update the existing regulations and introduce so-called safety features to guarantee the identification, authentication and traceability of medicines from the factory to the consumer, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the quality and safety of medicines is a growing concern for european citizens. patients must be absolutely sure that the medicines they are taking are indeed the medicines they expect to take. the use of counterfeit medicines can result in treatment failure and can endanger lives. like the rapporteur, i consider that the falsification of medicines is a criminal offence, which deprives patients of the necessary medical treatment and harms their health, sometimes even leading to death. for this reason, the first and foremost objective of the directive should be to protect public health against falsified medicines. the public should also be made more aware of the risks of buying medicines online. we need to guarantee patients that they can recognize sites that are compliant with the law. a directive aimed at combating the counterfeiting of medicines without targeting the internet, the most important means of dissemination, cannot be justified in the eyes of the public.
in writing. − counterfeiting medicines has become a profitable business with minimal risk of prosecution. this is demonstrated by the fact that in 2008 alone, customs authorities announced the seizure of more than 34 million counterfeit medicines in europe. it is true that the eu is not yet in the position of other geographical areas where up to 30% of medicines on the market are counterfeit. but the eu must not allow itself to be in this situation. at present, it is estimated that 1 percent of the medicines sold are counterfeit, but there are warnings that the proportion is increasing. the new safety rules adopted by parliament, the sanctions imposed on manufacturers of counterfeit medicines and the control system between producers and consumers are designed to stop the growth of the black market in medicines in the eu. the introduction of new mandatory safety rules for the trade in medicines, including online sales, is therefore welcome. selling counterfeit medicines is a criminal activity with serious consequences, which can affect a very large number of consumers who often choose the easy way of the internet to order medicines that they would otherwise not have access to in the absence of a medical recommendation.
in writing. − in view of the increasing risks that counterfeit medicines pose to patients, i consider it necessary to introduce urgent interim measures to increase patient safety. those measures should provide that manufacturing authorisation holders who remove or cover visible safety features voluntarily applied by the manufacturer are strictly liable if their actions result in the entry of counterfeit products into the supply chain.
in writing. − counterfeit medicines are a real threat to the whole european pharmaceutical system, because, in addition to the danger to patients who consume such products, the public's confidence in the quality of medicines available in pharmacies is diminished. the number of falsified medical products is skyrocketing in the eu, and they may contain substandard or falsified substances, or they may be missing or in the wrong doses. although the scale of this problem is still relatively small in europe, unlike in other regions, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there are a number of factors which indicate the need for prompt action at eu level. the new directive will include penalties for manufacturers of counterfeit medicines, enhanced safety rules and a verification system to prevent dangerous medicines from reaching the european market. the european parliament has been successful in adding to the european commission's proposal the regulation of the sale of these products via the internet, which is the main means of introducing counterfeit medicines to the eu market.
in writing. − there is an alarming increase in the eu of medicinal products which are falsified with regard to their identity, history or source. the directive introduces obligatory safety features for all prescriptive medicinal products and a rapid alert system; harmonised safety features to verify authenticity and identify individual packs, providing tampering evidence for medicinal products subject to prescription (possible exclusion of certain products following a risk assessment); no safety features for medicinal products not subject to prescription, unless a risk assessment demonstrates the risk of falsification and consequently a threat to public health; traceability: there will be a unique identifier for the safety features (e.g. a serialisation number) which allows the authenticity of the product and individual packs to be verified throughout the supply chain up to pharmacy level; in addition, member states have to set up systems to prevent suspected medicinal products from reaching patients; internet sales: conditions for the supply of medicinal products to the public are determined by member states; increased transparency as regards wholesale distributors; penalties applicable to infringements of national provisions must be applied.
in writing. − the opportunities for selling falsified medicinal products have increased rapidly in recent years. the ever-increasing risk of these medicines entering the supply chain means there is an urgent need to update the legislation. in particular, regulation of sales on the internet is notoriously difficult and can only be tackled effectively at international level. this issue was not addressed in the commission's proposal, and the work of the envi committee has therefore substantially improved it by adding important safeguards for consumers who purchase medicines online. but the nature of the internet means that we cannot eliminate the risk. consumer awareness of this risk needs to be improved, and so i welcome the inclusion of awareness-raising campaigns for the public which has been agreed as part of the compromise. the commission is in a unique position to coordinate education campaigns for the public and must ensure that the member states fulfil their obligations in this regard.
in writing. - i am impressed by the number of smes in the union, 23 million, and the number of jobs they provide - 100 million. these figures clearly demonstrate that we need to strengthen the financing system for this sector. the european funding system is as diverse as it is complicated. i agree with the initiators of this resolution, the system must be as coherent as possible in the funding period 2014-2020. i support the idea of the initiators to ask the commission to encourage the member states to carry out the necessary reforms. these smes meet in the single market but have different support conditions in their national environments. i also believe that a single window for all eu financial instruments for smes is useful as a solution to balance national support systems with european ones.
in writing. − i believe that the european commission's strategies, acts and concrete action plans for european smes need to be improved and i support the creation of a new european microfinance instrument for employment and better regulation, access to the single market and finance for smes.
in writing. − in the european union, the number of pensioners is increasing due to the increase in life expectancy. pension schemes are the responsibility of the member states, with different rules on retirement age and money spent on social security. the financial crisis has led to an increase in unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, increased budget deficits and problems in the financing of pensions, and has demonstrated the fragility of certain financing systems. the prevalence of temporary work has reduced the level of contributions to pension schemes, damaging their stability. without calling into question the prerogatives of the states and without suggesting that one model would fit all, the european parliament's report and the european commission's green paper call for the maintenance of pension systems adapted to the needs of citizens. i believe that solidarity between states and between generations is an important aspect of the success of community policies. at european level, pension system aspects related to the functioning of the internal market, compliance with the requirements of the stability and growth pact and the 2020 strategy are coordinated. i voted in favour of this report, which supports the efforts of the member states to meet the expectations of citizens for an adequate, viable and secure pension system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i agree with the rapporteur, who speaks clearly and forcefully about the need for solidarity between generations, but also about the major differences between national pension systems in europe. i agree that coordination is needed at union level, and the best arguments are given by the very effects of the crisis, which we hope we have emerged from: the impact of public spending in one member state is easily transmitted to another member state, and pension funds are part of financial markets. i welcome the idea of a flexible labour market for pensioners, given the demographic changes we are experiencing and the obvious trend towards longer careers. i agree that each member state, and the union as a whole, needs to adapt its policies to the concept of active ageing.
in writing. − publicly funded pension schemes in some member states are facing high cost increases, which means increased pressure on solidarity and a heavier burden on the younger generation. 2060 may seem far away, but that doesn't change the predictions: an aging population, a low birth rate, and therefore enormous pressure on budgets. it is clear that each of the member states is directly responsible for setting pension systems, and this prerogative is unquestionable, nor is it suggested that one model would fit all. but the call for adequate, viable and secure pensions is important as europe faces a demographic disaster in a few decades, with the first signs already showing. raising the retirement age is one of the relevant solutions when it comes to the fact that the state will no longer have enough active population to pay pensions to those who have left the labor market. and gradually raising the retirement age is a normal solution under these circumstances, coupled with the fact that life expectancy is much higher than it was 40 years ago.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution for which i was appointed rapporteur by the econ commission. i find the final text of the resolution to be balanced, underlining both the importance of the public pension pillar and the need for a real secondary pillar in all member states. one idea i tried to put forward was the definition of a minimum pension at european level, which would guarantee a secure and decent income for european citizens. unfortunately, it didn't get enough of an echo among my colleagues. i hope, however, that in future the commission will come forward with a proposal of this kind.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that strategy 2020 supports an active and focused labour market policy, which will allow employment growth for older workers, women, members of minority groups and the long-term unemployed. by achieving this, i believe that europe will see an increase in the number of people in the labour force and, by implication, economic growth with positive effects on the viability of pension systems at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that pension systems across the european union are already facing major sustainability problems, which risk becoming even more serious in the future, and therefore need to be reconsidered. the review by each member state must, however, be made with due regard for the fundamental objective of ensuring a decent income at a reasonable cost for older people after a lifetime of contribution. the reduction of pensions below the subsistence level, which is practised in some member states, is inhumane and must be avoided. the most egregious example of abuse is romania, where the current government has decided that all pensions should be drastically reduced, taxed and taxed for social health insurance. under the guise of subsidiarity, the romanian government is probably trying to create an original pension system by physically disappearing pensioners, depriving them of the minimum financial resources and medical care. i believe that one of the eu's objectives in this area must be to curb the excesses of certain member state governments against pensioners.
in writing. − in november 2009, there were 5.54 million pensioners and 5.65 million taxpayers in the public pension system in romania. ensuring an adequate and sustainable pension for eu citizens now and in the future is a priority for the european union. achieving these objectives in an ageing europe is a major challenge and member states need to prepare for it through pension reforms. member states should strengthen the adequacy of pensions by tackling gender discrimination in the labour market, in particular by reducing pay gaps by at least 10% by 2020. the public pension system must be strengthened at the expense of the private one. we must not privatize the public pension system just to ensure the stability of pension funds for current and future pensioners. although the trend at european level is towards increasing the retirement age, the retirement age should apply flexibly depending on the sector, the severity of working conditions and the number of years worked. active support for job creation is needed and the quality of work needs to be improved to increase the number of people actively contributing to the financing of their future pensions.
in writing. − there are different pension systems in the 27 member states of the european union. but the reversal of the demographic pyramid and the increase in life expectancy imply the need for a european strategy to strengthen pension cohesion and coherence in the european union. i would also like to mention the dysfunctions that arise in the case of labour mobility between different member states. there are cases where pension rights are not transferred adequately between different eu member states. in this respect, we must encourage cooperation between member states. on the other hand, it is our moral duty to ensure that our citizens have the right to a pension that ensures them a decent living.
in writing. − the green paper 'towards adequate, sustainable and secure european pension systems' by ms ria oomen-ruijten makes an important contribution to the debate on the future of european pension systems. i consider it necessary for the member states to draw up provisions on the provision of adequate pensions for their citizens. we encourage member states to establish the most appropriate pension system to guarantee a decent standard of living for all, with special attention to the most vulnerable groups in society. i voted for recital 24, which calls on the member states to encourage the continuation of the professional activity of older people by means of tax exemptions and social security contributions. i also voted for encouraging and facilitating the integration of work and retirement and for implementing disincentives to make it more difficult for older people to be made redundant by the company. i voted against raising the retirement age because i believe that people over a certain age who want and can work should be encouraged to work and not forced to, especially with the unemployment rate in the eu27 at 10% and 20% for young people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adopting the progress report on croatia because i believe that the eu accession process underlines the significant improvement in the situation on the territory. the respect of fundamental rights, the situation of refugees and the privatisation of the shipping sector are the most advanced chapters. i would welcome the implementation of the peace agreement, with all that it entails. cooperation with the tribunal for the former yugoslavia is essential for the smooth conduct of the negotiations. in the future, i express my hope that the croatian authorities will allow the necessary documents to be accessed by the investigators. one of the issues mentioned in the document is the prosecution of war criminals. when brought to justice, they are either not convicted or receive symbolic punishment. i stress the importance of the administration of fair justice for any candidate country. the legacy of the conflict of the 1990s, the attitude of non-respect for minority rights cannot be accepted by a future member state. legislative intervention in this area is desirable. the intention of the hungarian presidency to complete the negotiations by the end of the first half of 2011 is commendable and croatia has the potential to cross the finish line on time. its accession will send a positive signal to the region, reaffirming the eu's credibility in terms of the conditionality of this process. finally, i would like to state that romania fully supports croatia's accession to the eu.
in writing. − the country report on croatia's progress in 2010 shows the determination of the zagreb government to meet the criteria for accession to the european union. but the european union is faced with a situation for the first time in which the majority of croatian citizens do not see their country's eu membership as beneficial, whereas there has been a significant wave of optimism among the population of the central and eastern european states that have joined in the last two waves. the 2010 country report on croatia shows the concern of the european forums in this regard. this is why the call for the authorities and civil society to get involved in convincing croats that eu membership is good for their country. the efforts of the croatian authorities and their ambition to conclude the accession negotiations in the spring of this year are welcome. croatia also deserves congratulations for the fact that a country that has been ravaged by so much conflict has managed to make remarkable progress in implementing the acquis communautaire. moreover, any reference to a possible delay in croatia's accession can only be treated as a word thrown on the market without much concentration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because we all want a stable and prosperous neighbourhood, and this can only be achieved by integrating the western balkans into european and euro-atlantic structures. croatia is the most advanced country in the region in the process of european integration, demonstrating that it has and is willing to use robust mechanisms against corruption in the public sector. zagreb has already made progress in this regard, with the parliament's approval of the law allowing for the confiscation of illegally acquired wealth, as well as actions taken against high-ranking officials. these measures are welcome but zagreb must demonstrate, convincingly, that it has left behind a widespread culture of corruption and impunity. croatia can continue to count on romania's support in the process of accession to the european union through the sharing of common experience both in the pre-accession process and in post-accession aspects of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution in order to acknowledge croatia’s progress towards eu accession and highlight the remaining goals to be achieved for the benefit of its people. i voted against amendments 1 and 4 because they were intended to delete references to government efforts in croatia to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation and race, which are required for eu accession. when the resolution was in the afet committee, i contributed amendments concerning the efficiency and predictability of the justice system. they called for increased funding for courts to work fast and efficiently, unification of jurisprudence, and timely publication of all judgments. corruption cases have to come to court and not remain at the prosecution/investigation stage, and sentences must have deterrent effects. the efficiency of the pre-accession funds spent in the area of justice reform and the combating of corruption must be assessed.
in writing. − i welcome the progress made by croatia in meeting the criteria for the completion of accession negotiations, but the croatian government needs to improve the coordination of the central administrative institutions responsible for environmental management, in particular those in the field of spatial planning, waste management, water management and air quality, so that they can ensure the good conservation of a unique environment and a high level of biodiversity. i believe that the economic development of the region could be accelerated through close cooperation between croatia and the other countries, within the framework of the strategy for the danube region, through various forms of cooperation in the field of transport, environment and economic development within the danube macro-region.
rising food prices are affecting the most vulnerable sections of the population and, with 925 million undernourished people in the world in 2010, ensuring food security must become a priority for the european union. it's not just extreme natural events that drive up food prices, but also market volatility and subsidies for biogas production. i ask the commission to create instruments to combat price volatility and excessive speculation which in turn contribute to the worsening of the world food crisis. i would also like to stress that, in most cases, the increase in food prices has no effect on the increase in farmers' incomes, on the contrary, because of the poor functioning of the supply chain, the remuneration farmers receive is far from fair. i think that the problem of price increases makes the arguments against maintaining a strong common agricultural policy untenable.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, for years the euro-atlantic players thought that islam could not possibly produce democratic behaviour and institutions. therefore, they opted for either supporting authoritarian regimes or mechanically transferring the western model of democracy to the arab countries. not only did both strategies fail, but they are responsible for the emergence of islamic fundamentalists and the alienation of secular parts of the civil society. the present events in egypt prove that islam need not only be fundamentalist, but that it can also be democratic if we accept that democracy may have a variable geometry, and if we let it grow naturally from its specific soil. at the same time, we must admit that the popular uprising was on one hand the result of the evolution of egyptian elites in the cyber or internet society, and on the other hand the consequence of the existential hardships brought on by the global economic crisis. if the european union does not immediately and consistently address the need to overcome these hardships, the revolution might move towards anarchy; and from there towards another dictatorship. finally, we must not only applaud the fact that no israeli flags were burnt during the recent events in egypt, but also observe that the lack of a long-due solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict is at the origin of the feeling of failure which upset arab society and fuelled its neurosis. therefore, the european union should immediately take the initiative in order to use the transformation in egypt – which today is a mere hope – and turn it into a real opportunity for internal democracy and regional peace. in this context, the trips of the high representative/vice-president to the region, and her readiness to adapt and upgrade the necessary european instruments to cope with the challenges, are good news. her action must be supported by all of us.
18 days of revolt, the resignation of hosni mubarak, the takeover by the military's supreme council, basically the way is open for a transition. our hope is that this transition will be one towards democracy. things are moving, that's for sure, with a speed that, in principle, revolutionary events have. in the last few days, as you know, the constitution has been suspended, the parliament dissolved, the constitutional review commission is proposing amendments in 10 days, legislative and presidential elections are in six months. i believe that the european union must support by all means any gesture which implies a democratic transition. on the other hand, i would like to warn against a certain form of precipitation, because all these construction processes require a certain amount of time. let us also not forget that democratic forces are in critical need of rebuilding and strengthening, lest they contribute to the destabilization of the political landscape.
mr president, last time some of us voiced our frustration over the mild tone of our public – i repeat, public – pronouncements, not activity, on the events in egypt before mubarak’s resignation. of course, in her position, lady ashton is caught between a rock and a hard place, but if we want the eu’s voice to be heard it must be loud enough to be heard. coming back to egypt, based on my own experiences as a romanian, i would expect the real difficulties to be only just starting. far from solving their concerns, the departure of the former president will complicate and multiply the problems facing egyptian society. some of those problems, like the army not fulfilling the promise to organise free elections at the set time or the denunciation of the treaty with israel, will affect us directly. nevertheless, i am encouraged by our willingness to try, through constant contact with the local authorities, to anticipate such problems and prepare to intervene with the most appropriate means.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the past in this parliament we have discussed cases when different governments have shown their desire to control the media, but the attempts never went as far as in the case of the hungarian media law, where from television to radio, to the written press, to on-demand media, bloggers, everything is controlled, from registration to performance and suspension. when we, the liberals and the democrats, the alde group in this parliament, first raised our voice against this law, we were accused of being politically motivated. however, experience has shown that we were right and today even the hungarian government admits that something is very wrong with this law. therefore several amendments are envisaged. we trust the commission that this is indeed the hungarian position, hoping to receive it in writing, and we will closely follow the changes. nevertheless, the four areas requested by the commission are only a part of a much bigger picture. other aspects must be changed as well: the enormous control powers vested in the hands of a politically appointed person who has been heading two media control authorities for nine years, the lack of protection of journalists’ sources and the lack of effective judicial remedy, to name just a few. after all, not only our critics, but also the european commission itself, will have to answer to the hungarian and european civil society and journalists to say why the osce and the human rights commissioner of the council of europe have also harshly criticised the aspects i have just mentioned. we cannot all be politically motivated. quite the opposite, we are motivated by a genuine interest to see that media freedom is a reality for the benefit of our citizens.
your statements, commissioner, confirm that the european parliament was right to attack the hungarian press law in harsh terms, and the hungarian government recognizes by its willingness to amend the law, which is only right in four chapters, the failure of an undemocratic approach. in your letter you acknowledge at the end that you will examine this law and its compatibility, including with european law in general. i wanted to hear you refer to the bill of rights. i have two questions for you, commissioner, and i'd like you to answer them. how is it possible that you consider the standards of the osce and the council of europe to be too high for the european union? two: if a candidate country had a law identical to the unamended hungarian one, could it close that negotiating chapter?
in writing. in their motion for a resolution, my colleagues ask the european commission (ec) to take the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights into account when examining the hungarian media law, and if the government does not amend the law as desired within the deadline, to initiate infringement proceedings against hungary. the commission is also asked to initiate a european regulatory framework this year to ensure the freedom of the media in the member states. i am very pleased that the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights are receiving increasing attention and therefore i propose that the commission also examine the application of the charter, in particular articles 21 and 22 thereof, to the slovak language law. i also welcome the call to initiate a draft european directive to ensure the inviolability of media freedom. i believe that a similar framework should be established for the problems of indigenous national minorities. there are countries in the european union where it is not the requirement of balanced information that is a violation of the law for european citizens who have lived in the same area for centuries, but the fact that they are fined for using their mother tongue.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will try to be extremely brief. first, regarding the question asked by the earl of dartmouth, in a case involving the infringement of intellectual property rights, including patents in third countries, it is appropriate that the operators concerned have recourse to the available enforcement means, including legal proceedings if necessary, as this is a case between two private firms. in the specific case of avon protection, it would be appropriate for your constituent first to seek redress for the alleged infringement of the patent via the existing legal framework in korea. should the available enforcement in korea not be fair or expeditious enough, then the commission could look into the matter. regarding the remarks made by mr jadot, the initial draft of the korean legislation would have forced eu car makers to reduce the co2 emissions of their cars twice as much as korean car makers. this was mainly because the proposed emission cuts were not proportional, but highly progressive, depending on the level of emissions of the respective cars. consequently, despite being responsible for only a small share of car sales in korea – 3% in 2009 – and therefore of total co2 car emissions in korea, eu car makers would have been asked to contribute disproportionately. their average emissions reduction between 2009 and 2015 would have been 23%, compared with just 10% for their korean counterparts, which account for 95% of total car sales in korea. such burden sharing would not have been fair, and that is why we discussed it with the korean counterpart. finally, i would like to thank everybody involved in this legislative process – the committee on international trade (inta), the commission rapporteurs, the chair of the inta committee, the council and my own staff at the commission – for what, i would say, is a very good example of what the ratification procedure should be under the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i believe that the entry into force of the eu-korea free trade agreement would have positive effects on the union's economy. first, it would allow savings of an estimated eur 1,6 billion per year in customs duties. we would also see increased trade, particularly in services, where future trade growth is estimated at 70%, and in agriculture, where, at present, the european union's annual exports to korea are worth €1 billion. this agreement is also ambitious and innovative, the first of a new generation of bilateral free trade agreements which includes both a chapter on sustainable development and labour standards and a monitoring mechanism in which civil society will be involved. concerns about the difficulties that korean competition might cause to more sensitive union industries, such as the automotive industry, are allayed by the inclusion of the safeguard clause in the agreement. it will impose measures to monitor imports and exports and to assess the impact of the agreement on the various sectors.
given that hungary and romania were appointed on 3 february as coordinators of the priority action on environmental protection in the danube region, namely restoring and maintaining water quality, i would like to ask you when these coordinators will start implementing this priority action, because this way we will be able to ensure the quality of drinking water. among the projects cited as examples are investments in the construction of wastewater treatment plants, but also the development of methods and tools for the protection of drinking water sources. so it's important that we discuss the implementation of the strategy for the danube region.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr kalfin, and other members of this parliament for their constructive approach to the proposal, which highlights the significant interest parliament shows in the european investment bank’s activities. i believe that parliament has now achieved a balanced report which will provide a solid basis for the upcoming negotiations with the commission and the council. last april, the commission issued a legislative proposal to amend decision 633/2009/ec following a mid-term review of the application of the eib external mandate. it is now essential to make a timely decision allowing the eib to pursue its external work until 2013, while at the same time enhancing the mandate to ensure that eib investments outside the eu are increasingly aligned with eu policy objectives, in particular in the areas of climate change and development. as regards today’s vote, several amendments put forward are acceptable to the commission. those amendments relate to, firstly, the request to enhance the development aspects of eib activity and, secondly, the call for an increase in the regional ceilings of the general mandate. this could, inter alia, allow the eib to maintain a reasonable level of activity in certain regions, notably pre-accession. it should also be instrumental in helping the eib to take part in our joint efforts to provide support to tunisia and egypt in the democratic transition process. thirdly, the general request for more transparency, better reporting and better efficiency. on the other hand, additional negotiation will be needed in the context of the trialogue for other amendments. those points relate to, firstly, the restriction from eligibility under the climate change mandate of countries deemed by the council not to have committed to meeting appropriate climate-change-related targets. secondly, there are some amendments aimed at establishing the regional operational guidelines as delegated acts, which would not allow them to be operational and flexible general orientations as we initially foresaw them in the commission proposal. thirdly and finally, there are some amendments which relate to longer-term issues such as the creation of an eu platform for cooperation and development, or the reflections on longer-term perspectives for cooperation and development financing, that are not strictly related to the implementation of the current mandate. we should be careful, because the negotiation on these amendments might delay the adoption of the decision, and we might consider not engaging in lengthy and complicated negotiations in the framework of this decision. trialogue between the institutions will start on the basis of the report adopted today. the common aim is to have the decision adopted before the summer in order to pre-empt any risk of non-decision by october 2011, which would cause the suspension of eib external activities after that date.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − the guarantee to the european investment bank under this report aims to develop social and economic structures and mitigate climate change in third countries, while promoting democracy, the rule of law and human rights. i therefore welcome the suggestion to extend the general mandate of the bank, also in view of the fact that the countries for which this guarantee is intended include those which are candidates for accession and those which have concluded partnership agreements with the european union. however, to better fulfil its responsibilities in third countries, the bank needs substantial resources and more specialised staff. in this context, the eib should consider boosting certain projects of strategic importance to the european union, such as the nabucco gas pipeline and other major road, maritime and energy infrastructure projects. finally, i would like to stress the need for the bank to monitor the projects financed, both during their implementation and at their completion, to verify compliance with social and environmental criteria.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, of course, i do not know how much you know of the history of this issue, but i am particularly pleased to replace my colleague, maroš šefčovič, in replying to this question, because for the last five years it has been my domain. i was responsible for this area and am very pleased to tell you what has really been changed. it was an expert groups issue and, of course, unfortunately i have only three minutes to reply to your question. i will try to do my best. as we mentioned, the new framework for commission expert group was adopted in november 2010. it provides that, when defining the composition of these groups, the commission departments concerned shall aim to ensure the balanced representation of relevant areas of expertise and areas of interest, while taking into account the work to be carried out and the specific expertise required. the new framework for commission expert groups provides for clearer and stronger horizontal rules on how to manage conflicts of interest. according to these rules, the relevant commission services shall inform experts who are appointed in a personal capacity that, by accepting to be members of the group, they commit themselves to acting independently and in the public interest. these rules, which apply to all expert groups, constitute the commission’s sole policy on this matter and are requirements that all services must fulfil. in october 2005, in an example of good cooperation with parliament and jens bonde, mep, the commission launched an online public register of expert groups which provided valuable information on different aspects, such as the group’s mission, tasks and composition. since 2007, the commission has been gradually publishing the names of expert group members, whether formally or informally established. this goes beyond the commitment made by the commission in the 2005 framework for expert groups, which applied only to members of formal groups. in 2009, the composition of expert groups was fully disclosed in the register. thus, in principle, the names of all members of expert groups are available. this was a very strong requirement that parliament imposed in 2005 and it has been complied with. following the adoption of the new framework for commission expert groups, the commission drew up a new version of the register in december 2010. this new version enhances transparency by providing new and more accurate information, notably on the type of entities listed and the procedures used to select members. furthermore, the new register increases transparency on the activities carried out by each group by allowing commission departments to either publish relevant information in the register, or to provide a link from the register to a dedicated website where information can be found. finally, the presentation and readability of data encoded in the register has also been improved. given the huge amount of information to be treated, the transition from the old to the new version of the register is still ongoing. thus, some of the data still needs to be validated. the transition needs to be completed over the next few months. moreover, because for five and a half years i discussed these issues with various civil society organisations and members of parliament, i would ask you not to mystify the experts. there is no arithmetical link between the composition of expert groups and a decision. the decision is the commission’s political responsibility. parliament’s committees have the same political responsibility when they meet in the presence of the same lobbyists. do not forget that in 2005 we also launched a transparency register, then called the ‘lobbyist register’ and now the ‘register of interest representatives’, which has now developed into a joint register with parliament. that is a great step ahead. so something has been done. things do not look so bad.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his response. i am glad that i am speaking after him. i would like to say that we would rather look to the present and the future than back to the past. we would rather see bigger steps being taken towards transparency. i join with my colleagues on this question and recall that parliament has asked the commission to take action to ensure the balanced representation of interest groups in the membership of expert groups. as the commissioner mentioned, we have a revised framework. in our view, however, there are still major shortcomings which undermine people’s confidence. i will mention some of them. procedures to detect and eliminate conflicts of interest are missing. we need a procedure to detect and eliminate these. it is not enough to send a letter to the experts asking them to decide if they have a conflict of interest or not. professional secrecy clauses have been extended beyond commission staff to include members of expert groups so that, instead of moving towards more transparency, we are moving towards more secrecy. the lack of transparency persists with regard to the disclosure of expert groups’ documents. next, small and medium-sized enterprises and civil society organisations are not properly represented. safeguards against industry dominance are insufficient. there is a risk of ‘corporate capture’ of expert groups. so we ask for all information about the existing expert groups to be placed on a website in a timely manner, including information about membership and members and all calls for applications. i take this opportunity to insist again on the need for transparency concerning eu fund beneficiaries. finally, i would like to say that transparency ensures good governance and trust in the institutions. if we want people’s trust, more – and full – transparency is the only way to go.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after the recent developments that are on the table at the commission but not at parliament, i feel that we have to postpone the vote on the resolution because it needs to be adapted to suit this new development.
mr president, the situation in egypt is still developing, but in what direction is it moving? while we have rightly expressed our support for the popular desire for an open society, we should be aware of the complex, and yet unsolved, problems in egypt and in the middle east. the situation in egypt could be adequately described as a revolt in waiting for a revolution. a new generation has brought novelty to egypt, but social media skills are not enough. egypt is still mired in backwardness, anti-semitism and extreme practices. the eu has yet to formulate a proper policy towards the new developments in north africa. egypt needs our support, but we need an egypt ruled by law and human dignity. our task is just beginning. let us not forget the last message to come from iran, where the parliament has noisily called for the execution of opposition leaders. this proves that we should be well prepared, and stand our ground.
i voted in favour of this resolution, but since there was no reference in the final text to the role of cohesion policy, i signed an amendment to that effect with colleagues from the other political groups, and today it was voted on. the structural funds and the core principles of cohesion policy, such as the integrated approach, multi-level governance and real partnership, are essential elements in achieving the objectives of the 2020 strategy and should therefore be fully integrated into it. i agree that we need an ambitious social agenda, including the fight against poverty and social exclusion, but in order to create sustainable jobs, we must first have a competitive economy, and that is precisely the role of cohesion policy. if we continue to ignore cohesion policy, we will be counting on the failure of the eu 2020 strategy in years to come.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the eu's support to the eib to extend its financing of investment projects in third countries is important for the achievement of the union's external policy objectives. the activation of the eur 2 billion mandate for climate finance represents a potential important support for eastern partnership countries such as the republic of moldova. moldova is the poorest country in europe and is severely affected by catastrophic floods every year, which cause significant losses. the development of european projects in this country is therefore fully in line with the union's priority of eradicating poverty. we must also support the reform effort that this state has recently undertaken. at the same time, independence is a primary objective of the eu's foreign policy, as set out in article 21 (2) of the treaty on european union. the union's energy independence will be guaranteed by the completion of the nabucco project. the development of the economic and political relationship with the main suppliers, iraq, azerbaijan and turkmenistan, is therefore essential and this decision contributes to this.
in writing. − the eu-south korea free trade agreement will bring immediate and broad benefits to many eu economic sectors, even if it exposes the vulnerability of some. it will also establish strict dispute resolution, protection and monitoring procedures to ensure an adequate level of security for european companies. it is clear that the korean market offers significant opportunities for eu goods and services, but has so far been fairly closed due to high tariffs and costly non-tariff barriers. the agreement will swiftly remove almost €2 billion worth of eu export duties paid annually by exporters of industrial and agricultural products. the agreement generates immediate and substantial savings in several economic sectors. the benefits are even clearer when it comes to the agricultural and service sectors, with korea being among the world's most valuable export markets for eu farmers, with annual sales of over €1 billion. in these circumstances, i can only welcome the adoption of the eu-korea agreement in the ep and hope that there will be as many free trade agreements as possible, starting with canada and the us and ending with the bric countries.
in writing. − the danube strategy is a european union project to which the third countries bordering the danube are invited to participate in order to develop the immense economic potential of the danube region. the danube river links ten european countries, six of which are members of the european union. all these countries are encouraged to cooperate in areas such as water transport, social protection and development, sustainable economic development, transport and energy infrastructure, environmental protection, tourism, culture and education. it also identifies common responses to challenges such as improving the quality of life, increasing the competitiveness and attractiveness of danube towns and attracting investment in strategic areas. i believe that there is a need for better coordination between local and regional authorities and organisations working in the danube region to ensure job creation and security in this area. they also support the economic and social development of the danube region as a priority community area and promote deeper regional integration in this area, which would constitute a dynamic component of a wider european economic area. support the implementation of this strategy as the danube region represents a significant socio-economic potential within europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of adopting the danube strategy. the latter is the result of a major effort made by romania and austria from the very beginning. by promoting and supporting this project, which is now taking shape under the hungarian presidency, which i would like to congratulate, the strategy is becoming a political, economic and financial priority. romania will coordinate four priority areas: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the eu's maritime policy. the new strategy will also implement the new concept of territorial cohesion included in the lisbon treaty. financial resources not absorbed under the instruments of the current community financial framework may be used under the danube strategy for macro-regional projects. i stress the importance of working with other partners, including ngos and the private sector. finally, i would mention that romania will monitor, as coordinator, the fulfilment of the obligations assumed by the riparian states under the action plan.
in writing. − it is important that the danube strategy be adopted at the june european council summit in order to start its implementation as soon as possible. equally important is the mobilisation of existing european funds for the development of this region, amounting to eur 100 billion, through the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund and the european social fund. these funds are those that will directly support the implementation of the strategy. in the absence of clear projects to use these funds, the strategy becomes useless. the danube strategy aims to create jobs and economic growth in crisis-affected areas. taking advantage of the specific characteristics of the regions could lead to a much more effective use of the structural funds and to the creation of added value at regional level, while the financial resources that have not been absorbed could also represent a source of funding for macro-regional projects. the adoption of the danube strategy follows naturally from the danube summit held in bucharest at the end of last year, which gave an important signal of the economic importance the eu attaches to the river.
in writing. − i believe that the eu strategy for the danube region is a way of coordinating eu policies and that it will have to respond to the challenges facing the region. we want a real strategy, based on new technologies, innovation and investment, a strategy which, once implemented, will ultimately lead to an improvement in the quality of life for all european citizens in the danube region.
in writing. − the danube is intended to be the backbone of a macro-regional construction in which the länder, regions and member states, together with countries that do not belong or do not yet belong to the eu, can find themselves, in the search for common prosperity. the danube is no longer blue, like in the strauss waltz, and the projects for environmental protection are estimated at 9 billion euros. all investments in the danube basin must be smart systems, based on the latest scientific and technological developments and in which environmental protection is included from the design phase of the systems (green knowledge intelligent systems). these investments mean creating new opportunities for sustainable economic growth and improving the quality of life, thereby developing the natural/environmental heritage and promoting eu environmental policy (e.g. creating a system for managing and controlling environmental factors, addressing negative environmental impacts in the event of natural disasters, protecting biodiversity, preserving and extending forested areas, parks and green spaces in urban areas). the support of local authorities and citizens is extremely useful, demonstrating that internal dialogue at all levels is working and is effective, so that the danube strategy is a strategy of the european citizen.
in writing. − i believe that the inclusion of economic growth, the social objective and the fight against poverty in the list of objectives of the european union are also important for europe, because their achievement will help to ensure the economic independence of the european union. the major challenges facing the eu and the member states in terms of employment and unemployment should be reflected and mainstreamed in the policy framework of the european employment guidelines.
in writing. - the economic crisis has disproportionately affected social categories. it is worrying that youth unemployment is twice the european average. reform programmes leading to job creation are needed to alleviate the effects of the crisis. in this context, i can recall the measures adopted by the romanian government aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship among young people. in addition to increasing the number of jobs, it is essential to improve their quality. we can achieve this by stimulating research and innovation, by involving business more closely in academic life, by adapting the school curriculum to the needs of the labour market. to this end, studies on economic developments in the member states and, in particular, their coordination at european level and the identification of those areas in which the union can develop a comparative advantage on the world market are needed. moreover, the recognition of diplomas at european level would facilitate the free movement of labour and support the creation of a genuine european single market. only by putting forward concrete proposals and allocating sufficient funds will we be able to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, otherwise we risk failing, as in the case of the lisbon strategy.
in writing. − the employment guidelines proposed by the commission and approved by the council set out the current common priorities of the european union and the objectives of the member states with regard to employment policies at national level. increasing labour market participation including specific subcategories of the population, reducing structural unemployment and promoting quality jobs, developing a skilled labour force that meets labour market needs and improving the performance of education systems to provide vocational training at all levels are some of the guidelines for employment at community level. i believe that the member states and the european union must commit themselves to developing a coordinated employment strategy that promotes competent, skilled and adaptable human capital and labour markets that are able to react quickly to economic developments. i also support the rapporteur's initiative to promote the fight against social exclusion and poverty reduction, vital objectives of the 2020 strategy. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − rising food prices in the european union and worldwide are a major concern in 2011. the causes are diverse and difficult to anticipate and control. but there are also causes that we can and must control. a heavy supply chain with too many intermediaries, natural disasters caused by climate change, low incomes from agriculture or volatility in the agricultural market are just some of the reasons why the price of agricultural products has risen unjustifiably at european level. i believe that decision-makers at european level must make lower food prices a major objective on the european and global political agenda. we are not talking here of interfering with the free market, of course, but of eliminating those speculative activities which unjustifiably parasitize the supply-demand path, illegitimately influencing and distorting price formation. i voted in favour of this resolution because europe needs measures to ensure that food prices are not artificially raised by speculative intermediaries. the european union needs a simplification of the food supply chain so that tick-peddlers are eliminated from the trade flow. in this way, citizens and producers alike will benefit and the economic crisis will be more easily overcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document. although the forecasts show that world stocks of grain, wheat and sugar will be higher than in 2007, although the situation that led to the food crisis in 2008 does not seem to be repeated, there is an overreaction of the markets, excessive volatility, explained by the actions of investment funds speculators. moreover, entire sectors of agriculture are threatened. i see this in my country, in romania. and the 5 percent increase in the vat, which went up to 24 percent, was immediately reflected in the price increases. it is hard to accept that a farmer who works hard every day is the victim of a market game, a game played tens of thousands of miles away on the computers of companies that have nothing to do with agriculture but have enough money to unbalance world markets.
in writing. − global food prices have reached dramatic levels in recent times. thus, in december last year, they exceeded those recorded at the height of the economic crisis. the un recently declared that the scenario of over-supply underlying these price fluctuations is implausible. in the mid-1990s, a speculative market was created, centered on food, and it was amplified by the financial crisis. today, speculators profit from the unregulated markets and make millions from this activity. this speculative behaviour directly affects people's living standards and can contribute to political instability. i therefore consider that the union should aim to combat food price speculation through regulation and transparency. for this reason, i voted in favour of the resolution on food price increases.
in writing. − the global economic crisis and rising food and fuel prices have brought poverty and hunger to millions of citizens, but especially to poor people in developing countries, who are most exposed to the negative impact of price volatility and the food crisis. the european union as a whole is and remains the main producer of food. therefore, joint research and training capacities in the field of sustainable agricultural methods and new technologies should be developed at community level in order to mitigate the collapse of agricultural systems and temporarily prevent this crisis. i believe it is the duty of the european union and the member states to adopt a common trade strategy that adequately protects food markets and to decide together on their own agricultural and food production policies.
on behalf of the epp group. on tuesday night and wednesday morning, new, apparently minor incidents occurred at the thai-cambodian border. there's been extreme tension between the two neighboring nations, and i think that's why the debate we're having today is welcome. i would also like to thank mr posselt for his initiative. i would also like to say that i too deplore the loss of life that has occurred in the armed clashes since the beginning of the month. especially in the current tense context, we must strongly urge both sides to act with utmost restraint and to follow the call of the un security council to establish a lasting ceasefire. whatever the source of the disagreement between thailand and cambodia, the use of force is not a solution. i therefore want to call on both sides to urgently find a peaceful solution to the territorial dispute over the preah vihear temple area. i must also remind you that there is an unequivocal decision of the international court of justice in 1962 and that there are many possible solutions, including through asean mediation. all that is required, under international law, is good faith negotiations.
mr president, border clashes between thailand and cambodia have left an estimated 1 000 dead and another 30 000 displaced. we deplore the loss of life and make the prevention of any further such losses a priority. i would also like to express my concern at the alleged use of cluster munitions and call on both countries to refrain from using such munitions. killing people and endangering people’s lives is never a solution. we therefore strongly support all the parties currently working to find a solution and to stop the violence. we stand for peace and we urge peace.
i would like to join my colleagues in calling for a peaceful resolution of the tense situation on the thai-cambodian border. the fighting earlier this month marks the resumption of an earlier conflict over the unesco shrine on the border between the two countries. i would like to point out that this monument was entrusted to cambodia in 1962 by a decision of the international court of justice, and the authorities must respect this decision. yes, it's true that the area around the temple has not been demarcated by the court, but i believe that thailand and cambodia can reach an agreement through negotiations, not the sound of guns. the fighting in the region is not only endangering a unesco world heritage site but also the lives of the people. a border conflict is always a source of instability. that's why i encourage the two governments to resolve this issue bilaterally. i believe that the project of creating a buffer zone to prevent the spread of destruction is a step towards peace.
i would like to express my condolences for the loss of life, especially for the innocent civilian victims. i also express my concern that thousands of people have been forced to abandon their homes because of the clashes on the thai-cambodian border. as the joint draft resolution sums up, there is an international legal framework that both sides must respect. i think that the call from the european parliament must be followed by firm pressure from the high representative for foreign affairs. but perhaps more serious than anything is the use of cluster munitions and i think it is our duty to urge thailand and cambodia to ratify the convention to ban these weapons.
the author. - i want to assure mrs vergiat that, as anyone can see, we are not only discussing the death penalty, but also what has been happening in the streets of yemen in recent days and i think that at the time of the vote she will also be able to see what our group's attitude is towards these issues. we must not forget, however, that the subject of the urgent resolution adopted for discussion today is the prosecution of juvenile offenders and the death penalty applied in this case, and as we know, if for us europeans the death penalty is unacceptable and barbaric, it is all the more terrible, all the more catastrophic when it is applied to juveniles. the death penalty for crimes committed by people under the age of 18 is also against yemeni law, and yet the authorities in yemen continue to carry out such executions.
the author. − indeed, the death penalty is the most inhumane punishment possible and i have argued many times against it, and the european parliament has called for its abolition in countries that still maintain this barbaric practice. the executions in yemen, to which our resolution refers, are all the more outrageous when they concern minors. before a crime is committed, the victims are children. the fundamental right to life is violated, as are international conventions to which yemen is a party, and not least, yemen's own criminal code, which expressly prohibits the use of the death penalty against juvenile offenders. the difficulty of accurately determining the age of convicts in the absence of birth certificates is a circumstance that increases the discretionary nature of this type of sanction. we cannot discuss this specific issue without considering the actual situation in yemen. the yemeni authorities are violating human rights. journalists and activists are imprisoned unjustly. women are discriminated against in terms of participation in public life and access to education, and the judiciary is not independent at all. the recent revolts are not only economically and socially motivated, but also express the strong desire to democratize yemeni society.
sentencing a child to death is unacceptable in the world we live in. turning this practice into a habit is a crime in itself. i therefore wish to express my disagreement with the decision of the yemeni authorities to continue such actions. the government is violating both international treaties on the subject and the penal code that prohibits the death penalty for minors. moreover, the way in which the court seeks to determine the age of those brought before it is still unclear. this case is a sad example of what is happening in yemen. as a member of the european parliament and as an eu citizen, i believe in the fundamental importance of the right to life of people, and that children are the first to be protected. i call on the eu high representative to stop this bloody string of executions.
thabet samoun and fouad ahmed ali abdulla were probably minors, as they claim, when they committed the acts for which they were sentenced to death. they were sentenced years ago and can be executed at any time. the psychological pressure they are under is enormous and in itself constitutes inhuman and degrading treatment. we ask the authorities to suspend the execution of these sentences. plus, the two of them can't prove they were under 18 because they don't have birth certificates. getting birth certificates is a serious problem in yemen, where only 22% of births are officially registered according to unicef. maybe some of the funds we're helping this country with will solve that problem. public discussion around these cases should lead to the abolition of the death penalty in yemen and commutation of sentences for hundreds of death row inmates. i ask the european commission and the council to insist on this objective in their dialogue with the government.
on behalf of the s&d group. indeed, i think that the discussion of the violation of the rights of sexual minorities in uganda should go beyond the critical stage. let us now consider the effectiveness of our efforts to promote human rights and the extent to which european diplomacy is involved in this area. in december, we passed a resolution against the punishment of homosexuals in uganda and incitement to crime against a community stigmatized for its sexual orientation. i am appalled by this horrible crime, but i am also appalled by the reluctance of the european institutions and the member states of the european union to use the levers of persuasion and pressure at their disposal. i believe it is appropriate to strongly urge the ugandan authorities to guarantee respect for fundamental rights, to ensure a fair investigation in this case and to prevent other such crimes. i also think that we should warn the commission to get more involved in the defence of human rights.
in writing. we learned with great concern about the death of lgbt human rights activist david kisule in uganda. we have already condemned in this parliament the criminalization of consensual, private, same-sex relations between adults and the baharti bill which provides for the tightening of penalties up to the death penalty. the murder of david kisule proves that the danger is real and that hatred and discrimination cost lives. i welcome the statements by president barack obama and secretary of state hillary clinton who mourned the death of david kisule and gave visibility to his efforts for a dignified life in uganda, regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity. i join those who call on the european commission and the council to act swiftly and effectively to condemn and stop discrimination in law and in practice.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on development, and in particular anni podimata for her report on innovative financing at global and european levels. i have already had the opportunity to debate with you several times on how to make the banks pay for the costs of the crisis. as you know, the commission is preparing an in-depth impact assessment on instruments for the taxation of the financial sector, to be delivered by summer 2011. this will enable the commission to make appropriate proposals on policy actions. in addition, we are also scrutinising the cumulative impact on financial institutions of new regulation, bank levies and taxes and will present the results later this year. i would encourage you to wait for the results of the impact assessment before taking any firm position on the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu level. as regards carbon taxation, i agree that the current taxation model does not fully embrace the polluter-pays principle. i welcome the ep´s support for strengthening the emissions trading system, as well as for a comprehensive revision of the energy taxation directive (etd) to make co2 emission and energy content the basic criteria for the taxation of energy products. a proposal for revision of the etd is planned for spring 2011. i hear also your concerns as regards the potential risk of carbon leakage. the commission favours transitional free allocation of allowances and access to international credits for companies under the emissions trading system. we are nevertheless continuing to monitor the current and future risk of carbon leakage. and i am convinced that a solution similar to free allocation under the emissions trading system can be included in the etd revision. finally, on eurobonds, the commission recognises that, depending on its precise modalities, joint issuance of eurobonds could benefit bond market efficiency and integration and support for the euro as an international currency. however, this instrument merits further analysis and discussion at technical and political level; moral hazard implications for member states need to be further examined, in particular.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − achieving european objectives on sustainable development, energy security and climate change requires a substantial financial commitment, particularly in terms of innovation and research, as well as new ways to complement existing funding. the commission should therefore examine the feasibility of introducing a carbon tax, similar to vat, to be applied to every product on the internal market. it is very important, however, to eliminate the possibility of passing this tax on to consumers, and to analyse the risk to the competitiveness of european industries in the single market. the efficiency of the use of structural funds and european investment bank funds, as well as the coordination between union, national and other forms of support that can act as a lever to stimulate investment in energy efficiency, needs to be improved. appropriate investment in energy supply and energy efficiency leads to reduced dependence on market fluctuations and positive consequences for the union economy. the commission should carry out as soon as possible an impact study on the taxation of financial transactions at union and global level, analysing its effect and the economic benefit created by reducing the volume of speculative financial transactions that are currently causing serious market disruption. the study should analyse whether taxation of the financial sector at union level can indeed be a source of own resources for the union and contain concrete proposals on the procedure for introducing that tax.
the european union already has a higher tax burden than the united states, japan and other global economic powers, by almost 10 percentage points, and this means that european firms are at a competitive disadvantage to american firms and other firms that operate globally. sure, there's a lot of excitement about introducing a new financial transaction tax. but we all know that this financial sector has an incredible ability to shift any cost onto citizens and businesses. that is why i believe that we can only talk about a financial transaction tax in the european union if we also have a global agreement on this issue. secondly, i want to support fully the introduction of the european bond for the financing of european infrastructure projects as a means of attracting resources and of attracting resources from the private sector to finance these projects.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs podimata. the economic and financial crisis has exposed a number of disproportionate incentives in the financial sector, as well as weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the financial system. it should contribute more equitably and sustainably to the cost of this crisis. but we must ensure that the financial transaction tax, introduced as a result of an impact assessment, is not ultimately passed on to consumers, and therefore to citizens. we therefore believe that clear rules should be established to prevent this. public procurement represents 17% of the eu's gdp and is an important market, particularly in areas such as health, transport and energy. the implementation of electronic public procurement systems in the member states has led to increased transparency and significant savings to national budgets. i call on the commission and the member states to ensure that by 2015 at least 50% of public procurement is carried out through electronic public procurement systems, thus fulfilling the commitments made by the member states in manchester in 2005. i also ask the commission to implement the e-invoice initiative, which is an important tool for reducing tax evasion. member states should substantially improve their use of existing structural funds for research and innovation, transport and energy efficiency projects, by supporting citizens to acquire the necessary skills, improving the performance of national systems and implementing smart specialisation strategies and transnational projects. in this context, we support the issuance of european bonds to finance infrastructure projects. i also draw attention to the under-exploited potential of innovative revolving financial instruments aimed at increasing the energy efficiency of buildings. member states should also initiate the preparation of post-2013 structural funds programmes with a particular focus on innovation, transport, energy efficiency and smart specialisation.
achieving the europe 2020 goals requires massive investment at european level in research, education and infrastructure. however, in the context of austerity policies pursued by european governments and growing deficits, these objectives can only be achieved through alternative financing methods. i am referring both to the joint issue of bonds to enable member states to cover their deficits by converting part of their own debts into european debts and facilitating access to low-interest loans, and to the financial transaction tax. the latter would envisage a minimum tax on the financial sector, whose activities account for some 73% of global gdp, and would be used to discourage financial speculation, regulate markets and invest in european projects. the union needs to send a strong signal for solutions to the financial crisis, by implementing these taxes in the first place.
a financial transaction tax would hurt competitiveness, but a fairly globally applied tax could be a way of raising additional funds for global policies. in order to have a coherent position, the eu needs to make an impact assessment of the introduction of such a tax. the study should include the possibility of the risk of relocation of foreign investments to less transparent areas. it is therefore necessary to examine to what extent the options under consideration can be used as innovative financial mechanisms. such a fee should not have a negative impact on the banking system. avoiding possible consequences for smes and individual investments are also two very important issues. finally, i would stress that only a financial activities tax could be feasible at european level. that way, you would tax corporations, not every participant in a financial transaction.
in writing. having lived through the experience of the financial crisis, which demonstrated the volatility of financial institutions' shares, i considered it necessary to introduce a financial transaction tax at european level, a subject which was also discussed intensively at european council level. the s&d group, from which the rapporteur was also appointed, has the main credit for the success of the report. we have succeeded in sending a strong signal, in particular by adopting the most problematic amendment, which aims to introduce this tax at european level, rather than at global level. in this way, we show our good intentions and our belief that within the union measures can be more effective with quantifiable and immediate benefits. in this respect, i must repeat that the austerity policy, which is being vigorously promoted by conservative governments, is deeply unfair and even demagogic, all the more so since the economic crisis was not triggered by ordinary people but by financial and banking institutions, which had a much too liberal view of the financial system. the recovery must be thought of in terms of fairness and that is why this tax is the best measure we have at our disposal.
these days, the ruling party in romania has made an aberrant decision: it has voted for euthanasia, that is, the killing of stray dogs. i appeal to the european people's party, which has christian democracy as its doctrine: please talk to your colleagues in the democratic-liberal party of romania, so that they do not stain their hands with innocent blood. jesus christ loved animals, "mercy willing, not sacrifice", said the savior. i would also like to appeal to the other colleagues: almost all of you have at least one dog at home, whom you love like an angel. romania is sadly going back to the dark ages, it's barbarizing. the basescu regime euthanizes dogs today, and will euthanize people tomorrow. killing dogs is also a lucrative business for the mob. help romania not to become idi amin's uganda. whatever the reasons, there are peaceful and civilized solutions, and murder has never solved anything in history.
in referring to the coalition of ngos for structural funds, i would like to draw the attention of the responsible european institutions to the extremely flawed management of structural funds in romania, especially in the context of the sectoral operational programme for human resource development. the romanian government and the prime minister personally have committed to improving the conditions for absorption of these funds. unfortunately, the results are almost zero. the romanian authority for the management of structural funds not only does not assist the beneficiaries of these funds, but also creates difficulties in accessing them. the irregularities are endless: from abusive swaps of funding contracts, to unjustified delays in payments and non-transparent allocations of funds, based on political affinities. i would like to call on the european commission to intervene urgently and to monitor the work of the agencies responsible for managing european funds in romania. only external intervention can stop the abuses perpetuated at all levels by the current powers that be, and constantly reported to those who should be receiving these funds and ngos.
i also congratulate our colleague on the report and i would like to thank her for accepting our amendments, which were tabled in the committee on industry, research and energy. i would like to mention the importance of european standards, which simplify the procurement process, whether it is done by traditional or electronic means, and guarantee compliance with product safety rules. i called on the commission and all stakeholders to ensure the financial sustainability of the european standardisation system, including through public-private partnerships and multiannual financial planning, which is essential to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the system. we also stressed the need for stability, simplification of european standards and shorter standards development times and called on national standardisation bodies to simplify standards by reducing the number of references to other standards and by making easy-to-use instructions available.
the current economic and financial crisis has hit the healthcare sector hard, with many member states cutting public health budgets. some have even decided to close hospitals in smaller towns or that perform a small number of surgeries. especially are patients in rural areas or isolated communities forced to travel tens of miles to receive specialized medical care. health inequalities therefore exist not only between member states but also between their regions. budget cuts to national health programs are jeopardizing access to the latest and most effective treatments. also, reducing subsidies for some treatments means that patients cannot continue treatment, with much higher consequences and costs for their health. inequalities in the european health system also cause medical staff to migrate to another member state to practice their profession. that is why the commission (president interrupts)
inequalities in health are a challenge to the union's commitment to solidarity, social and economic cohesion, human rights and equal opportunities. the health dimension must therefore be present in all union policies. member states should be encouraged to include the principle of health in all policies, in the development of new action plans in any field, in order to contribute to reducing inequalities and to creating a high level of health protection. i support the need to develop a set of specific indicators to monitor health inequalities and comparable indicators that could enable national authorities to assess progress in this area with a view to improving health systems. as part of the effort to tackle health inequalities, we also need to see the establishment of a strategic workforce planning mechanism to ensure that the recruitment and retention of health professionals is carried out.
the world health organization estimates that smoking, alcohol, lack of exercise and poor diet will cause 70 percent of all disease and premature death by 2020. the fact that there is a systematic correlation between health status and social class indicates that these differences result from inadequate access to basic social services. this shows that health inequalities are not the result of individual choice but are avoidable and unjust. for the first time in the 2007-13 budgetary programming, health was proposed as one of the top 10 priorities of the structural funds. the european commission must, however, include in its monitoring procedures of the europe 2020 strategy stratified comparative indicators according to socioeconomic status and take into account discrimination based on age criteria.
in writing. there are major differences between health systems both within and between member states. i want to emphasize that in times of economic crisis, no government should have the right to drastically cut health budgets. i would like to draw your attention to the situation of the health system in romania. due to budget cuts by the current government, an impressive number of romanian medical specialists are emigrating, the chronically ill no longer have access to medical services and compensated medication, and hospital equipment is outdated. in addition, the right-wing government proposes that hospitals be pooled, although in some medical units there are not enough beds for all patients and they must always be supplemented. i therefore want to call on the european commission to do more to align health service standards and to put pressure on member states to allocate adequate budgets to guarantee citizens affordable and quality health services.
in the current economic crisis, the promotion of good governance in tax matters is imperative both within and outside the eu. i would point out that each state is responsible for deciding its own tax policy. in this context, obstacles must be avoided and cooperation between states must be promoted. the fight against tax havens is a key priority. they contribute to the decline of the quality of the political system in developing countries. it also encourages economic crime, making it more profitable. in this way, the inequitable distribution of tax revenues is in turn increased. another measure concerns the enhancement of the exchange of information between all member states. it is also necessary to increase the participation of developing countries in relevant international fora.
in writing. the report demonstrates that the eu is highly dependent on protein imports from third countries and the need for measures to ensure a greater degree of autonomy in this respect. unblocking the process of authorising the cultivation of genetically modified soybeans in european countries would be a response to this problem and also an important source of revenue for european agriculture, which has been severely affected by the financial crisis. in the context of the new legislative framework proposed by the european commission regarding the right of member states to prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory, in application of the principle of subsidiarity, european states could decide individually whether or not they want to cultivate this product.
rapporteur. − madam president, firstly let me wish all women a happy anniversary on this important date, 8 march, the day which marks the 100th anniversary of international women’s day, 100 years of struggle for women’s rights. i would like to thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the secretariat for their contributions to this report. my report deals with an issue which is both general and eminently concrete in terms of its consequences: female poverty. 85 million europeans live below the poverty line and 17% of all women in the eu are classed as living in poverty. these are the facts. the economic, financial and social crisis affects all of us, but it particularly harms women in the labour market and in their personal lives, since they are more likely to be in insecure jobs, more likely to be made redundant and less likely to have social security. this is how things stand at present. what can we do? women are expecting us to provide concrete proposals, concrete measures. it is 8 march, and i shall try to summarise my report in eight points. first and foremost, we call on the member states to take into account the gender dimension in their plans for recovery from the recession by promoting and boosting the employment of women, and adopting specific measures as well as adjusting budgets to ensure equality of access to public sector expenditure, with a view to both enhancing productive capacity and meeting women’s social and environmental needs. second, we call on the commission and the member states to take the appropriate measures to eliminate gender inequalities in employment as part of europe 2020. i strongly encourage establishing as an objective the reduction of the gender pay gap by 1% each year, in order to achieve the target of 10% reduction by 2020. i stress also the need for positive action to increase women’s representation in political, economic and corporate decision-making bodies. the third issue is related to reconciliation between private and professional life. i call on the council and the member states to renew and fulfil their commitments related to the barcelona targets for the provision of accessible, affordable and high-quality childcare, and to develop new targets for the care of dependent persons. fourth, we call on the commission and member states to frame health policies which aim to combat and prevent practices that harm women’s health and cause social exclusion and poverty. fifth, we call on the member states to adopt the necessary measures in order to offer better opportunities for women in education while fighting stereotypes and eliminating traditional role models in school curricula. our sixth point is that there is a direct link between families’ social circumstances and children’s growth. therefore we call on the commission and the council to develop and implement a strategy to halve child poverty by 2012. seventh, we should not ignore violence against women. it has an increasing impact on the risk of marginalisation, poverty and social exclusion. i call on the commission to establish a european year for combating violence against women. eighth, let us underline the importance of the structural funds, and in particular the european social fund, as key tools to assist member states to combat poverty and social exclusion. i think that we can do it. we have the power. we have the strength and the intelligence to tackle this important issue at european level and in all member states.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to thank commissioners reding and andor for their strong commitments on these important issues. i would also like to thank all my colleagues for their strong messages on this important debate today. first of all, i would like to say that gender equality is not only a matter of social justice, it is also a matter for progress and we need to build together a fair society for all of us. next, i would like to say that i strongly support quotas. yes, we need women in top positions, but let us not forget poverty. we have to tackle and we have to prevent and reduce poverty and we need concrete measures. preventing and reducing poverty is an important component of social solidarity and i strongly believe in women’s solidarity. we need support for all citizens; we need support from the whole society and i would like to thank the ngos, the social partners and all women and men in society who are fighting year by year, day by day, to achieve gender equality. we have to make this gender equality become a reality. we can accelerate on the track today; together let us make things happen. and once again i wish all women happy days.
in writing. on this international women's day, i support the principles set out in the report on 'equality between women and men in 2010'. however, i believe that in the coming period we must move from sound principles to concrete measures to reduce the current gender inequalities. i come from a country, romania, which in 2010 was in the middle of the global gender gap index, more precisely 64th in terms of discrimination between women and men. women in romania are generally more educated than men, and the share of women in the total higher education graduates has been steadily increasing. it has reached 60% of graduates are women and only 40% are men. however, women's income continues to be lower than that of men. from the increased risk of poverty to the blocking of access to key positions, the gender risks affecting women's chances in the labour market are still extremely strong. in the hope that the labour market will treat women more fairly, i want us to be part of that change, and this report is an important step.
in writing. i would like to acknowledge the many issues raised by this report, which has made it possible for us, irrespective of the committee in which we work, to find a number of correlations that need to be made in order to ensure a greater contribution to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives. as you have noted, action is required at national and european level to promote entrepreneurship among women by creating training and vocational and legal counselling structures, and by facilitating access to public and private funding. i particularly appreciate the need to develop entrepreneurship at local and regional level as the main source of job creation and economic development. the potential of women in business development is under-utilized and i therefore believe that both the european social fund and the european regional development fund should support actions to develop female entrepreneurship. of course, there may be cultural, material or economic differences that prevent this, but these are the aspects that we must take into account and create the necessary framework to overcome them.
in writing. − the products available on the internal market have been constantly evolving and multiplying over the last 10 years, around the time the general product safety directive was issued, which regulates the general requirements for products so that they do not endanger anyone. the proposal to revise this directive is therefore more than appropriate. at the moment we have a directive which only partially overlaps the new legislative framework adopted in mid-2008. by aligning regulations we would be more likely to achieve the objective of a coherent internal market for both harmonised and non-harmonised products, and to ensure comprehensive protection of consumer interests. at the same time, these regulations must be fully transparent, so that they are accessible to producers. it is therefore important to ensure that the two overlapping levels of divergent market surveillance rules applying to harmonised goods depending on whether they are consumer products or not are eliminated. market surveillance is closely linked to product safety as it is an essential element in ensuring that products comply with the requirements laid down in the relevant community harmonisation legislation and that they are not dangerous.
in writing. − i welcome this initiative which aims to ensure better vigilance and full transparency on the evaluation of medicines recommended in health emergencies and improved vaccination and communication strategies to prevent and contain pandemics. i believe that the european union should devote more resources to research and development on preventive public health measures, to increased investment in better evaluation and anticipation of the impact of an influenza virus, both between pandemics and at the beginning of a pandemic, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for better coordination at european level in the response to epidemiological risks. the h1n1 case demonstrated poor risk management globally, mainly due to an inadequate correlation between alert levels and actual dangers, leading, among other things, to a large waste of funds. in this context, i believe that the european union needs to implement an independent system for the assessment of pandemic risks and also better coordination in managing these risks. in this context, the european centre for disease prevention and control should be equipped with the necessary capacities to play a more active role in this area.
in writing. − given the severity of the h1n1 influenza and the importance of the health of our citizens, i consider this report to be of particular importance, as it also underlines the proper management of these situations. the moderate severity of this disease, confirmed as early as 2009 by the world health organisation, and the different approach of the member states, which has caused very high costs, the sale of vaccines produced under emergency conditions and the revision of the definition of a pandemic, taking into account not only the criterion of geographical spread but also its severity, indicate that a different approach is absolutely necessary. the european union needs more cooperation, transparency and independence in dealing with these situations.
in writing. − the report considers that better cooperation is needed in response to pandemics and calls for a review of the prevention plans established in the eu and its member states (mss). it also calls for reinforced cooperation between mss and coordination of mss with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). it also urges the who to revise the definition of a pandemic, based on its geographical spread and severity. the ecdc is invited to apply its competences as an independent agency to assess and communicate the severity of infection risks within the eu, making recommendations on best practices in areas such as crisis management techniques, vaccination and communication strategies. moreover, the report calls for an assessment of the influenza vaccination strategies recommended in the eu and applied in mss, covering the efficacy of the vaccines, their risk-benefit balance and the different target groups recommended, with regard to a safe and effective use and mss’ reports on relevant information to the commission (i.e. the number of doses of vaccines purchased and actually used, the number of h1n1 infections and people that died due to the infection, etc.). the eu needs to improve cooperation, independence and transparency in the management of future pandemic crises.
in writing. - the adoption of this report by the plenary shows a path the european union seems to want to take. although the idea of introducing a financial transaction tax, even if the g20 leaders do not agree on such a contribution to be set at global level, seems to be in support of citizens, i cannot help but note that this could lead to adverse effects in the medium and long term. these effects consist in the fact that such a tax, imposed only on capital established in the eu, will certainly cause that capital to migrate to developed or emerging countries outside the eu. or it will, at least initially, have this charge passed on, in the form of costs, to the consumer of the credit or other financial services. whatever the case, the perverse effect is that the eu will move closer to the dangerous situation where it will lose its competitiveness to other countries such as the usa, japan or the bric countries, which will slow down economic growth and create problems for the real economy, which is dependent on cheap financing.
in writing. − in recent years, the global economic and financial crisis has exposed major weaknesses in the regulatory and supervisory framework of the global financial system. financial transactions are characterised by a substantial increase in volume and a marked discrepancy between the volume of financial transactions and the needs of the real economy. short-term investments, which are predominant, have led to volatility and excessive risk-taking. short-term speculative transactions were at the heart of that crisis and underlined the clear link between inefficient financial regulation and supervision and the sustainability of public finances. i voted in favour of this report because the problems caused by this market behaviour have had a major impact on public finances and on european citizens and beyond. the report proposes the creation of instruments to reduce speculation, ensure a fair burden-sharing between the main financial players and create additional new resources to respond to major challenges. tax evasion and fraud are currently estimated in the eu member states at around eur 250 billion per year. the novelty is the financial transaction tax, which would translate into revenues of around €200 billion a year for the eu and discourage speculative transactions.
in writing. − the crisis has severely affected the healthcare sector in several eu member states in terms of both supply and demand. on the supply side, the economic and financial crisis has led to a decline in the level of funding for public health and health services and, in the long term, to budget cuts and lower tax revenues, while the demand for health services and in the long term has increased due to a combination of factors contributing to the deterioration of the health of the general population. several member states have included in their recovery packages measures to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis on the health services sector, investing in health infrastructure, optimising the funds allocated to the health services sector and restructuring and reorganising the health services system. however, there are wide differences in the measures taken to combat inequalities across member states. access is a key aspect of all public services. the collection and exchange of evidence on effective strategies, policies and measures will help to build support at the level of the administration and the different sectors.
in writing. − differences in life expectancy within the eu vary from one country to another, ranging from 14.2 years for men to 8.3 years for women (in romania, 11.86 for men and 7.38 for women). even at the domestic level, groups with different educational or social backgrounds have different views of health. a rise in unemployment and austerity measures could exacerbate existing health inequalities in the eu. we voted this resolution to call for improved disease monitoring and prevention measures, as well as a focus on vulnerable groups.
in writing. − i support the vital role of the agricultural sector in employment and the maintenance of the european agri-food model, which is a strategic component of the european economy. given that the european union is the world's largest importer of agricultural goods, the production methods for exports to the union from third countries should offer european consumers the same guarantees in terms of health, food safety, sustainable development and minimum social standards as those imposed on european producers. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that agricultural and food policies must serve fundamental objectives such as food security and safety.
in writing. − in the context of the future eu common agricultural policy, we need to consider the balance between domestic production and imports. our efforts will have to be directed towards a better match between market liberalisation and the protection of the domestic economic sector. ensuring food security at member state level is achieved by maintaining a stable agricultural sector, without being jeopardised by foreign trade policy, against the background of increased market volatility. small farmers make a significant contribution to the food security of the regions in which they operate. i think it is necessary that trade agreements on the import of agricultural products with third countries be achieved by compensating farmers for any losses. i also support a more targeted agricultural policy to ensure that eu agricultural products have access to third country markets. the promotion of products with the eu regional label is intended to make them known externally and would, by implication, stimulate their consumption. according to recent studies, the global population is growing at a rate far faster than the world's grain production. there are many eu regions that have the capacity to exploit the potential of cereal production more effectively and can make an effective contribution to reducing these differences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of articles 49, 53 and 54 for the following reasons. as regards the first article, it is absurd that the negotiations with mercosur are being conducted on the basis of a 12-year-old mandate. as regards articles 53 and 54, i would remind you that european farmers are obliged to respect the highest standards of quality, food safety, the environment and animal welfare and i believe that we should have the same requirements from all our trading partners, in the interests of european farmers but also in the interests of consumers, who must be protected.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy (cap) is a symbol of european integration, representing one of the most developed forms of the eu's supranational decision-making process. internal eu pressures towards market orientation of the cap and a greater focus on other european policies are equally reflected in the eu's external trade policy, with a view to ensuring the opening of the agricultural market in exchange for improved access for european services and industrial products to third country markets, and maintaining the european agricultural model and a fair competitive environment for european producers on the world market. the multifunctional role of the european agricultural sector can serve as a catalyst for new paradigms: food security, safety and quality at a reasonable price for european citizens. globally, demand for food is increasing, driven by rising production costs, increased volatility in agricultural markets, decreasing land and water cover, and reduced energy inputs. a strong common agricultural policy is fundamental to the maintenance, environmental sustainability and economic development of rural areas in the eu in the face of the threat of land abandonment and rural depopulation.
in writing. − i would like to stress the importance of this report, especially in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy. i believe that there must be coherence between the cap and trade policies. unfortunately, trade agreements with a number of third countries have often caused major damage to european agricultural sectors and to farmers, but i hope that this will not happen again in the future. i also want to draw attention to the fact that if our farmers are required to meet very high standards of quality, environment and animal welfare, we should also require third country producers exporting to the eu to meet the same standards in order to ensure fair competition.
in writing. − i voted for the report on eu agriculture and international trade because it is necessary to ensure coherence between eu policies in the fields of agriculture, trade and development. eu agriculture plays a vital role in employment and maintaining the vitality of rural areas, and the european agri-food model is a strategic component of the european economy. globally, demand for food has increased due to the effects of climate change, rising production costs, reduced agricultural land and reduced drinking water resources. i stress the importance of trade in agricultural products for economic development and poverty eradication and call for eu support measures for the countries most affected by the food crisis. the eu's share of world agricultural exports is declining. in this context, i consider the eu-mercosur association agreement to be a very important agreement and therefore the european parliament should be closely involved in all negotiations. we demand that agricultural imports into the eu offer european consumers the same guarantees in terms of consumer protection, quality of animal life, environmental protection and minimum social standards as those offered by european production methods.
in writing. − imports of protein crops represent the equivalent of 20 million hectares cultivated outside europe, i.e. more than 10% of the eu's arable land, and these crops are not subject to the same health and environmental requirements as european ones. the import gaps represent an additional financial burden for the livestock and feed sectors, endangering the economic viability of domestic meat production. rebalancing the supply and consumption of cereals, protein crops and oilseeds in the european union would have major economic benefits for farmers and the food and feed industry, as well as improving the variety of healthy and high-quality food for consumers. in addition, in the context of climate change, protein crops can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by absorbing and storing nitrogen in the soil and therefore have the effect of reducing the use of synthetic nitrogen fertilisers. these crops also contribute to reducing soil acidification, improving soil structure, reducing the use of herbicides and increasing biodiversity favourable to pollination. i voted in favour of this report because i support improving the balance between the production of plant and animal proteins and also the use of indigenous protein crops.
in writing. − over the last decade, plant protein production has declined in the eu - protein crops now account for only 3% of the eu's arable land and provide only 30% of the protein used in animal feed. i support the rapporteur's view that this must be changed, as this will benefit human health, the environment and biodiversity. the european commission should report on the possibilities and options for increasing domestic production of proteaginous substances in the eu through new policy instruments. the establishment of a mechanism to monitor the origin of protein crops imported into the eu is also useful.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which raises a number of important issues in the functioning of european agriculture. however, i believe that we should focus more on solutions and in this respect we need more openness to exploiting the latest and most modern scientific solutions in the field of biotechnology.
in writing. - protein crops cover only 3% of the arable land in the union (excluding fruit and vegetables). dried vegetable production decreased to about 1 million ha in 2008. more than 40 million tonnes of protein crops, mainly soybeans and maize gluten feed, are imported annually, representing 80% of the eu's protein crop consumption. the arable land used outside the eu for protein imports into the eu represents 10% of the eu arable land, i.e. 20 million ha. as regards the eu's commitments to actively contribute to global food security and to actively combat climate change, future agricultural and rural development policy must promote a better balance between plant and animal protein production, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and nutrient leakage to groundwater, to motivate consumers, procurement authorities and catering services to opt for a more balanced, greener and more varied food range in the food supply. the commission should present legislative initiatives to reduce food waste in the food chain, including slaughter and larder waste, an area that is not sufficiently regulated.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it underlines the importance of limiting dependence on imported proteinase, especially as this dependence poses major risks to the livestock sector in the european union. i would like to point out, however, that gmos are not the only solution to reducing dependence on imported proteases from third countries. there are gm soy substitutes that could help provide the protein needed, such as field peas, broad beans and field beans, lupine, lentils, hazelnuts, but also alfalfa and clover, which can also substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions. at the same time, the potential for growing protein crops such as soybeans in the new member states, romania and bulgaria, is not to be overlooked.
in writing. on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of women's rights day and the vote on this report on equality between women and men, i wonder which society could deprive itself of 50% of its intelligence, 50% of its energy? and yet this is the world we live in, and we don't want it anymore. i call for a general mobilization for equality. if we look at the money invested in training young girls, we see that at the same time the gaps in working life continue to widen. this is unacceptable! that is why i support the report put to the vote, because it highlights all the difficulties faced by women. it is not a fight of right or left that we must fight but a collective fight, women and men, all together.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the articles referring to women's rights in relation to reproductive health and freedom of abortion. as an elected member of parliament in a country which has for more than 25 years banned abortion, i am fully aware of the importance of this right and the serious consequences of any questioning of it.
in writing. − i voted for the report on equal opportunities for women and men in the eu-2010. although 59% of higher education graduates in the eu are women, this proportion is not found in politics or economic life. in the european parliament, only 35% of meps are women, in national parliaments women represent only 15% of parliamentarians and only 3% of the chairmen of the boards of the main european companies are women. the representation of women is important because it encourages women to plan a career in politics and to run for office with political, administrative or economic responsibilities. in the eu, there is an average pay gap of 17% between women and men, and there are not enough childcare facilities for children under 3. young mothers are thus more exposed to temporary employment contracts or the risk of unemployment. call for action at national and european level to promote female entrepreneurship and facilitate access to public and private funding. we invite the commission to encourage member states to promote in the media in general and in advertising and promotional material in particular an image of women that respects the dignity, diversity of roles and identity of women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text. this report proposes a number of measures to combat poverty among women in the european union. i support many of these, such as encouraging the introduction of flexible working hours for women or reducing the pay gap between women and men for the same work. women have a difficult situation. they must care for their home, children, and husband, and at the same time work. women are often victims of discrimination or violence at work, major problems still widespread across the eu. especially in rural areas and with regard to roma women, the reality is truly dramatic. in these circumstances, the structural funds must create programmes to improve women's chances of entering the labour market. this should be coupled with increasing access to microfinance and encouraging and developing women's entrepreneurial skills.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for greater attention by the authorities to the vulnerable social groups, including women. the economic and financial crisis has affected all of us, but some of the hardest hit have been older women, those in rural areas or single mothers. the european union and the member states must take these elements into account and contribute to improving the social conditions of these vulnerable groups. in this respect, the objective of reducing the illegal gender pay gap by 1% each year is a legitimate one and must be put into practice in a real way through the various instruments at national and european level.
in writing. − the eu is confronted with a major economic, financial and social crisis that affects us all, men and women. but it particularly harms women in the labour market and in their personal lives, since they are more likely to be in insecure jobs, more likely to be made redundant and less likely to have social security. the austerity measures implemented across the eu have a particularly damaging impact on women, who dominate the public sector both as employees and as beneficiaries of services. preventing and reducing women’s poverty is an important component of the fundamental principle of social solidarity to which the eu is committed by article 3 of the treaty on eu. this implies equality between women and men, social justice and protection and combating social exclusion and discrimination. the commission and the member states should take the necessary measures to eliminate gender inequalities in employment as part of the eu 2020 strategy. i strongly encourage establishing as an objective the reduction of the gender pay gap by 1% each year, in order to achieve a target of a 10% reduction by 2020. i would also stress the need for positive action to increase women’s representation in political, economic and corporate decision-making bodies.
in writing. − the two resolutions tabled by the femm committee and debated on the centenary of international women's day show that parliament promotes and supports equal treatment between women and men. the president of the legislature also noted that there were too few women in national parliaments, even though the situation was different in the european parliament. i admit that this is also the case in romania, which has sent a higher percentage of women to the european legislature than the representation they have in the national parliament. but beyond this, which can only be treated as the tip of the iceberg, we need to close the gender pay gap, to appoint more women to decision-making positions and to increase employment among women, who are more affected by unemployment, through active and realistic policies. the analysis shows that we are not only talking about the need for equal treatment between the sexes, but that these policies would have a major impact on economies, given that gdp would increase by 30%. the average gender pay gap is still 18% in the eu. the call for member states to implement equal pay legislation is welcomed.
in writing. i welcome the steps taken so far by turkey, but i stress that there is still important progress to be made. concrete measures are needed in areas such as press freedom, the status of women in turkish society, dialogue between political parties and, above all, recognition of cyprus as an eu member state. this conflict is a major issue in turkey's eu accession negotiations, and turkey must therefore demonstrate a genuine willingness to resolve the dispute. however, i believe that turkey's accession negotiations must move forward in order to encourage reforms in this country, given that turkey is a model for arab countries. turkey would help spread stability in volatile regions beyond its eastern and southern borders. turkey's importance to the european union is also worth mentioning, as it is a key player in the energy sector. turkey's integration into the eu can be beneficial to both sides, both in the short and medium term, and especially in the long term.
in writing. i would like to welcome the important progress made by turkey towards joining the european union. i think this country has shown that it has the full determination to meet all the criteria to be a full member of the eu, and our role is to support it. many of my colleagues have raised the issue of fundamental rights today, but i would like to ask why this report does not ask the council to open negotiations on the justice and fundamental rights chapter? this chapter is blocked by the council, although it is the most important one in bringing turkey up to eu standards of democracy. my dear colleagues, tomorrow we must vote in favour of the amendment that calls for the opening of this chapter. otherwise, the european parliament will send negative signals to turkey, which will damage our credibility.
in writing. i appreciate the effort my colleague, ria oomen-ruijten, has put into the report, but i reserve the right to disagree with all of its contents. first, i believe that, for the chapters for which the technical preparations have already been completed, accession negotiations should begin. the reason is simple: in this way we could have a dialogue that would push turkey towards adopting the acquis communautaire. while acknowledging the progress made by turkey in meeting the technical criteria for opening competition negotiations, we must also tell the authorities in ankara that further efforts are needed in this regard. i also believe that the opening of the negotiating chapter on justice and fundamental rights can provide the ideal context to motivate turkey to move forward on the path of reform in this area, which is, i believe, our common goal. i also believe that we should ask the council to intensify its dialogue with turkey in the field of foreign policy, because, especially in the context of the recent events in north africa, this country can be an ally in promoting democratization and development in the region.
stability in the western balkans region will be further strengthened by the recommendation of montenegro as a candidate country by the european commission. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of strict compliance with the copenhagen criteria, which are essential in the development of the union. despite much progress, the montenegrin authorities still have reforms to implement in vital sectors. for example, i cannot help but notice the commission's report on the spread of corruption and tax evasion. to this end, the creation of a structure specialised in combating these phenomena is the most important step. on the other hand, the rights of minorities - and here i am referring in particular to those of the roma - have not yet been enshrined in the necessary legislation. the mention of the status of minorities in the fundamental law, together with their rights, will be a positive signal for european integration. i appreciate the promotion of montenegro as a state promoter of the environmental movement. one of the eu's key objectives is to protect the environment. in this context, i draw attention to the negative impact of over-tourism, which is poorly managed. one consequence could be the extension of future accession negotiations. finally, i would like to recall that montenegro's european perspective is helping to reconcile europe with its past in the region and the balkan dimension.
the accession of montenegro as a candidate country is the result of the open door policy promoted by the european union, which has had beneficial effects not only in eastern europe but also in the western balkans. montenegro is at the beginning of a road that will be neither easy nor straightforward, but it has a perspective, a roadmap and can draw on the experience of countries in the region that have not so long ago been on the road to accession. it is important that the future country report is positive and allows the accession negotiations to start effectively. i believe that the european union has succeeded in making a decisive contribution to the process of reconciliation in the former yugoslavia and that once all the states resulting from the break-up of the yugoslav federation have been admitted to the european union, the last wounds of a violent past, which is still a problem for the whole european community, will be closed. i wish the montenegrin nation success in its efforts to modernise and to meet the conditions for accession.
on behalf of the epp group. today we are discussing a european roma strategy, an important step towards integrating the largest minority in the union. the european union must face up to the reality of the roma problem, a problem caused by the economic situation of the roma in general, but above all by aspects of their own tradition: nomadism and low levels of education and, consequently, lack of vocational qualifications. education means the opportunity to have a qualification, a profession, a job, the absolutely necessary step towards the social integration of roma. the responsibility for integration is not entirely with the authorities. the roma community must understand that they must make the necessary effort, they must really want to integrate into society, regardless of their country of origin or residence. the strategy should include as priority areas the increase of civic education, the adaptation of the cultural and traditional aspects of the roma population to contemporary civilization and the promotion of vocational qualification and retraining. i believe that these areas, along with education, should be fundamental objectives. the home member states must contribute the most to integration, but the european approach also has a very important role to play. the future strategy developed by the commission should propose framework programmes adapted to the nomadic nature of part of the roma community, to be developed and implemented in a similar way in all member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have finally come to the moment when we will have to vote on this report. in my view, this is not necessarily a moment of celebration: i prefer to see it as a moment when we have to be wise and to look at what we have achieved so far and what we want to achieve in the future. however, because i am aware of the huge amount of work that has been put into this report, please allow me to congratulate and thank not only the rapporteur and the other members involved, but also the staff of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and our policy advisers. when we first began discussing this issue we were all hoping that the union was actually moving towards an eu strategy on roma inclusion. instead we will have a framework, and then the member states will decide whether or not to draw up their own strategies. i am afraid, given past experience – and please allow me to be pessimistic here – that this may be a process that is very much money driven, funding driven. in my view, people in the developed countries ‘discovered’ the roma not necessarily because they recognised the bad conditions in which roma were living in their countries of origin, but because they were bothered by the presence of roma in the streets and on the margins of cities. this is about more than funding. it is very much about the basic human rights of this population group. the commissioner spoke of work in progress. i hope that we shall see not only work but also some real progress.
i appreciate the excellent work done by my colleague járóka in producing this report and i congratulate her sincerely. i would like to point out, however, that the failure of roma integration policies to date has not been due to a lack of strategies, plans on paper or funds. real integration can only be achieved through the involvement of roma communities, roma, that is, people who, together with local authorities, have the capacity and, above all, the desire to implement the programmes. who knows the deep issues of this community better than the community itself? also, the local government, the one that handles their day-to-day affairs. the implementation of the future strategy must be based on structured dialogue and collaboration between roma communities, local authorities and the non-governmental environment. the roma must move from being spectators to being actors involved in the implementation of the measures that are intended for them. it's time to move from talk to action.
i join those who appreciate the efforts and work of those who have drawn up the report we are debating today, but at the same time we must be realistic, realize how many documents we have on the situation of the roma, which are not always reflected in the concrete results on the ground. formally, none of the member states has any legislative or policy obstacles that are discriminatory, implicit or explicit, towards roma. however, forms of discrimination exist and have been referred to here, if we refer to the values declared and assumed by the european union. there are, we must also recognize, cultural differences which sometimes seem irreconcilable, and i believe that, beyond any other policy aimed at social integration, the most powerful instrument for improving the situation of this community is education. at the same time, we must take into account the peculiarities of this ethnic group, which are often at the root of their problems. romania, for example, has implemented affirmative action mechanisms, including the reservation of special places in high schools and colleges, but, discouragingly, many such places, funded with public money, have remained unoccupied. the measures proposed in the report are important and necessary and i hope that they will be put into practice by all the governments of the member states. at the same time, the roma community needs to take responsibility for changing their situation for the better.
the problem of the social and economic exclusion of roma has been a matter of debate in europe since the accession of the central and eastern european states. but that doesn't mean that the phenomenon wasn't well known before. i myself live in a member state, romania, where the otherwise diverse roma community has lived for decades alongside romanians and hungarians. although the relationship has never been without friction, tensions have increased in the two decades since the fall of communism. in the former socialist countries, the roma suffered the most from the transition to a market economy, as the activities that sustained these communities disappeared or were reduced. the responsibility is shared, we are all responsible, but the roma communities are responsible for their fate, and so is europe, which has not yet taken note of the problem. the most important message of the járóka lívia report is that the prohibition of discrimination, the total elimination of discrimination, is far from solving, i repeat, this european problem.
the socioeconomic integration of the roma population is a challenge in most eu countries. we're talking about a diverse population, significant in number, but one that needs to be treated as a whole. the fate of this community has often been the subject of election campaigns. to truly contribute to the well-being of roma citizens, the proper use and interaction of structural funds resources is a priority. building new homes and renovating existing ones, improving access to utilities, but also to education, health care and jobs, are viable solutions to achieve our goal. at the same time, we must take advantage of the peculiarities of this population, the customs, culture and traditional crafts of the roma. by designating a european year of roma integration, we will help to familiarise people with the problems of this community. table and performance sports are also a sure way of integrating the roma population.
madam president, with about 1.5 million members of this minority, romania is home to the largest roma community in europe. the social integration of roma lags behind, being considered utopian by many, both in the administration and in the community. actually the romanian government deals fully with the integration of this minority, therefore we need a european strategy to frame the national efforts aimed at providing socio-economic inclusion for the roma, education, training opportunities and job assistance, especially for women. it is crucial to support efforts to help equip them for continued employment in order to avoid social exclusion and poverty. i strongly support the idea that the commission should present annually a follow-up of eu strategy on roma inclusion. i would like to congratulate mrs járóka and also mrs kinga göncz, and i welcome the commitment of the council and the commission.
the fact that we are talking today about the development of a european strategy for roma citizens is finally a recognition that this issue is a matter of european competence and not just national. for a better implementation of this, i support the idea of setting up a european agency for the roma. we will thus be able to put an end to discrimination on the basis of ethnicity, with all the consequences that follow from this. if there is to be a system for monitoring the implementation of the strategy, it must be applied to all member states and not just to countries with a large number of this population. there is a risk that eu funds managed by ngos will not lead to concrete results. public authorities should act as beneficiary organisations of projects. i also support the idea in the report to create a european crisis map, containing the eu's micro-regions most affected by poverty, social exclusion and discrimination.
member of the commission. − madam president, as i said in my reply, we are working on the issue of a deep and comprehensive free trade area, and we presented key recommendations to those countries on what they had to do in order to start negotiations on such agreements. such agreements would, of course, constitute considerable progress, and if those countries do their homework – and at least some of them are really trying seriously to do it – then the prospects for intensifying trade will be much better.
you said earlier that it would come to my question to commissioner de gucht; unfortunately, i understand, the commissioner left, and i remained in the chamber waiting for the answer. i don't think any of the procedures were followed, and i don't understand what happened.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr lange on the completion of this important report. it is very important during these times of economic austerity that the european institutions are pushing for a strong cohesive industrial policy to maintain jobs in europe and to encourage renewed competitiveness. vice-president tajani has stated that industry is at the heart of europe and is indispensable for finding solutions to the challenges of our society today and in the future. the s&d group position is that industry plays a key role for jobs in europe. this is why we must enhance efforts to maintain a strong industrial base in europe. i am specifically concerned about developing the necessary infrastructure where it does not exist. finally, i am glad to see that the final report strongly advocates the significance of raw materials in the industrial sector of the future.
the union's industrial policy must create the appropriate framework to increase the contribution of the industrial sector to the union's gdp, improve the competitiveness of the european union and create jobs throughout its territory. the industrial strategy must identify the strategic areas in which to invest, as well as the sources of the raw materials needed. i ask the commission and the member states to support these priorities through the future financial perspective, the annual budgets and the community's sectoral policies. energy consumption is an indicator of industrial production. we need an eco-efficient industrial policy that ensures both the production capacity of the eu in a sustainable way and the reduction of the union's energy dependence. the competitiveness of the union depends to a large extent on the capacity to innovate, on research and development and on the link between innovation and the production process. increasing public funding for r & d is needed to mobilise private investment, and simplifying procedures and reducing red tape is a key condition for increased industry involvement.
rare earth elements are essential for the production of watches, mobile phones, for the manufacture of high-performance permanent magnets, in wind turbines or electric vehicles, catalytic converters for automobiles, printed circuit boards, optical fibers. they are therefore also essential for new clean energy sources. although traded on a global scale, the market for certain raw materials and rare earth elements is not very transparent and the volumes traded are small. the union is almost entirely dependent on imports of rare earth elements, 97% of the world production of which is concentrated in china. demand for raw materials will be driven by the growth of emerging economies and the rapid diffusion of new technologies. mining, refining and recycling of rare earth elements have serious environmental consequences if not managed properly. the union should focus its efforts on making the use and recycling of rare earth elements more efficient and on research into the substitution of less critical raw materials for critical raw materials. we request, commissioner, that the list of raw materials be updated periodically.
it is already known that the world's hydrocarbon reserves are approaching exhaustion. this will be reflected in higher extraction costs, so huge prices. gas from alternative sources would play an important role in the european energy market. by using it, europe could diversify its energy sources, thus reducing its dependence on third countries. one alternative is to exploit europe's gas reserves in an unconventional way. in romania, three oil companies have already obtained a licence to do so. the great wealth of the black sea is gas hydrates, also known as "flammable ice". if exploited locally, this wealth will lessen the eu's dependence on russian pipelines. the biogas market is also one of the most developed in europe. in countries like romania there is potential for biogas production, but its exploitation still requires investment in technology.
on 4 february, the european council recommended that member states explore shale gas and oil shale resources in europe. however, the exploitation of unconventional gas sources poses significant environmental and social risks. no exploitation of shale gas shall take place without an impact study presenting the associated risks and the measures necessary to protect the resident population and owners, taking into account the environmental risks. commissioner, the european union's energy security policy is based on diversifying sources and supply routes. reducing dependence on russian gas can also be achieved by implementing projects such as nabucco, a key priority for the european union, alongside other smaller projects such as the trans adriatic pipeline, the turkey-greece-italy interconnection or the azerbaijan-georgia-romania interconnection, which highlight the particular importance of the black sea for the union's energy security.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. let's take another guess: where is the gas market going? we have today presented our communication on the energy efficiency plan, which means that saving energy, using energy more efficiently, using it, not wasting it, is certainly a priority. secondly, we have an increasing demand for energy in the european union. i will give you just one example: mobility. in germany we have 520 diesel vehicles per 1 000 inhabitants, in the new member states less than 200. it will be closer, but not at the level of poland, but rather higher. thirdly, we have declining domestic gas supplies, markedly in the uk this decade and in the netherlands in the next decade, i.e. increasing dependence. and, of course, gas is a beacon of hope. why would you do that? it is a fossil resource, but it is far more environmentally friendly than coal or oil in terms of co2 emissions, and far more flexible than nuclear power and coal. gas is therefore essential to ensure that electricity can be produced increasingly from renewable sources. if we take the subject of base load, we have here about 8 000 hours a year, whereas wind power has between 2 000 and 5 000 hours depending on the location and solar energy only between 600 and 2 000 hours. so it's clear we need gas. if you want renewable energy, you have to look at gas as the logical partner. as hard as it is for some. i am therefore assuming that the annual demand for europe is 600 billion cubic metres rather than 300 billion. that gives us an 80% dependency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. that means that, in addition to russia, norway, algeria, qatar and libya, we should also source gas from the caspian region, so that gas from this region should be integrated into the european gas market through itgi, tap and nabucco. and in the interests of diversification, i am not excluding gas from rock formations in the member states either. we are at the beginning of this process. the question is whether europe should intervene regularly in this area. why would you do that? let us assume that in poland licences are given lightly, and then groundwater or soil in poland is threatened, but this has little effect across the border. so we can consider the question, if we do not want to take ourselves too seriously here: do we not trust the government in warsaw to take care of the health of its citizens, to provide clean water and soil and to protect property rights? i would say that this is the confidence of any democratically elected european government, controlled by a parliament and the public. so if we are serious about subsidiarity, we can examine why a well in poland should be controlled, approved or refused by brussels and not by warsaw. i have a basic trust in national governments, not a basic distrust. but i'm still available to discuss common rules. it is clear that we are now examining whether the european regulatory framework is comprehensive, i.e. whether environmental law, soil protection law, groundwater protection, occupational safety for the workers and trainees concerned and property rights are respected. i suspect that what my spokeswoman said is correct: the european regulatory framework can be improved. but that's true everywhere. that is true of the women's quota and it is true here too. that's why we're going to look at improvements. we ask the member states to give us a common, harmonized nomenclature of permit requirements. all this is happening without any decision being taken on the matter. the usa is comparable to europe on the one hand, but not comparable to it on the other, because it has a very different population density and therefore the issues of training, health, safety at work and groundwater play a different role than in densely populated central europe such as poland, germany or france. we will commission an expert opinion to examine, on the basis of typical applications for trial drilling within the eu, what risks exist and whether the european union legal framework is sustainable, the member states' legislation is sufficient and whether and where we need to make improvements at eu level. otherwise, i'd advise against this topic of emotion. if a french member of parliament says that the interests of the community are not being protected, i have to say that in france my interest in maximum operational safety for nuclear power stations is far more important than the question of trial drilling for shale gas - at least for the time being. i would like to say one last thing, off the record: i am grateful to you for coming and staying at such a late hour. i regret that a number of members - i have been a member for a long time and can therefore speak here - have first spoken and then left the chamber. i don't think there's an event happening anywhere that's important. i don't think it's right for you and me to say something and then leave. this is not in the interests of the reputation of parliament!
in writing. the future security of gas supply will depend on the eu's relationship with gas-producing third countries, but also on the development of gas production in the community. investments in the technological development of natural gas extraction from alternative sources could make a key contribution to reducing dependence on gas imports in the future. i believe that the potential for the existence and extraction of shale gas in europe should not be lost sight of and i expect the commission to prepare a technical and economic feasibility study of extraction. there are various european sources of funding that can support member states in making the necessary investments in infrastructure, production and energy efficiency measures at regional and local level, in particular through loans and guarantees from the european investment bank or financing through regional, structural or cohesion funds. on the basis of these financing instruments and within the 2014-2020 budgetary perspective, the commission should identify a financing solution for the exploitation of gas from alternative sources, which could have a radical impact on the european gas and energy market.
mr president, the recent events of historical importance in our southern neighbourhood call for a resetting of our policies there, but we have to start with the lessons to be learnt. firstly, we must learn that relying on authoritarian leaders or imposing our model of life is wrong. we must leave those people to build their democracy in their way and under their conditions. secondly, we must understand that the national fragmentation of our aid-for-development policy that sometimes allows the promotion of national geopolitical agendas deprives us and the countries in the area of the benefits of security through development. thirdly, our lack of vision and political will in addressing the regional security challenges, mainly the israeli-palestinian issue, leads us towards ever worse crises. on libya, amongst other countries, we must remember that not all those fighting a dictator are democrats and change per se is not always for the better. we can therefore speak about dialogue, engagement, humanitarian assistance, but recognition might be too early, and recourse to military means should be ruled out or, at any rate, be subject to united nations approval and arab league cooperation. otherwise, we could be led into an adventure, the results of which may be difficult to cope with.
a few days ago, the gaddafi regime addressed a letter to the united nations security council expressing its surprise at the sanctions adopted on february 26, claiming that there was only a "moderate" remedy, gaddafi said, against "subversive acts". it's the clear sign of a dictator who knows he's lost the game and can no longer recognize the gravity of the acts he's committing. the brutality of the last three weeks in libya is thus minimized with incredible cynicism. on the other hand, it is clear that the reaction of the gaddafi regime shows that it is not indifferent to the sanctions adopted so far. so i think we need to have the toughest sanctions possible, under the un mandate, obviously, but i think we need to go beyond the no-fly zones, supporting those who have to defeat gaddafi, also being in solidarity with our southern states that will be receiving a wave of refugees; that's also clear.
in writing. – the events in libya and in the southern neighbourhood of the eu are a rebuttal of past policies and a test for future policies. the status quo approach was the prevalent choice for almost 40 years. this policy gave europe the benefits of stability and safe access to energy. but it ignored the societies of north africa and of the arab world. we know this because these societies re-emerged dramatically and took everybody by surprise. a major policy shift is required towards active support for the fledgling civil societies in the arab countries. but this should not be an excuse for rushed decisions that would shatter our neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy should stay in place as a policy. it should not be replaced by uncoordinated measures. the idea was mooted that financial resources should be taken away from the european programmes of the eastern partnership and reallocated to the south. this would send a negative signal towards the societies in our eastern neighbourhood. moreover this reallocation has no rational basis. the per capita spending in the south and the east is not unbalanced. it is roughly equal. the problem is not how much we spend but how we spend.
in writing. in the context of the current economic crisis, the suggestion of a financial stability mechanism responds to the urgent need for solidarity between member states and is a positive one. however, the amendment of the treaty, in the form currently envisaged, could give rise to a mechanism exclusively dedicated to a limited number of member states. it does not, for example, allow the inclusion of member states which do not have the euro currency in its reference circle. i believe that, in order to be truly european, this mechanism must be built within the institutional framework of the european union, with the involvement of the commission and the european parliament and that the participation of all 27 member states must be taken into account. it should be borne in mind that economic fluctuations in member states outside the euro area have an impact on the economic and financial stability of the union as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the fernandes report on the 2012 budget priorities properly identifies the directions to be followed in the coming year. i approve and support the idea presented in the report regarding the prioritisation of internal recruitment of staff. this will increase work efficiency by using previously acquired experience and at the same time reduce training costs and those generated by adapting to a completely new organisational culture. it is also important to compare in detail the actual expenditure with the budgeted expenditure during 2011 and to identify precisely the causes of significant variations. the european institutions should prepare and submit to the commission cost reduction plans with clear deadlines and measurable targets. we can't just ask citizens and the private sector to make sacrifices. the eu institutions and parliament need to be a model, show solidarity and pay very close attention to the spending of resources.
in writing. − given the current economic, financial and social situation, the guidelines for the 2012 budgetary procedure represent a real challenge, especially as the union institutions are forced to make substantial savings, but at the same time they must have sufficient resources to be able to continue their work at the highest level of professionalism and efficiency. in this regard, i express my support for better interinstitutional cooperation with a view to an exchange of practices leading to a strategy to strengthen the link between europe and its citizens, while maintaining budgetary austerity and savings, in order to successfully implement the objectives of the europe 2020 agenda. while the 2012 budget of parliament and the other institutions should be a consolidation budget, it should not create obstacles to investment, as investment projects ensure the smooth functioning of european economies. last but not least, i support the rapporteur's idea that the unavailability of interpretation services in the committees of the european parliament is unacceptable because members must be allowed to speak in their mother tongue, and i was put in the position of not being able to have access to interpretation services even when i was presenting a report.
in writing. − the european parliament must continue to encourage countries wishing to join the union, because only by encouraging democratic change and punishing in a timely manner any slippage or inertia will these countries be brought into line with the standards of democracy and economy common to the member states. therefore, it is normal to welcome the first steps of constitutional reform taken in turkey, but to highlight the need for comprehensive system reforms. turkey's political problems, still tense and even deadlocked relations with greece, poor dialogue between political parties, undermining of press freedom are all reasons for the slowdown in the accession negotiations. turkey's immediate aim is probably to lift the visa requirements imposed by the member states on turkish citizens. and the completion of the negotiations on the readmission agreement will lead to better management of migration. the commission should launch the visa dialogue with turkey as soon as the agreement enters into force. europe cannot afford a state the size of turkey with frustrations about how its citizens are treated. turkey was probably waiting for the parliament's resolution to benefit it more. but the fact that parliament says the negotiation process with the eu is long and open only reflects the reality on the ground.
in writing. - ramona mănescu, mep: turkey has achieved remarkable economic growth, which has enabled it to become the 16th largest economy in the world out of 27 within 10 years. it is the 7th largest trading partner for the european union and the eu is turkey's main trading partner. some 88% of foreign direct investment in turkey comes from the union states, which indicates the solidarity of our ties. politically, it's an example of stability and democracy for muslim states. the negotiations with turkey should be stimulated and i believe that, for example, the opening of negotiating chapter 15, which concerns the energy sector, is important also for the eu member states. the strategic relevance of turkey to the union's energy security should not be overlooked as we seek to diversify sources of supply, the nabucco pipeline project being a significant example. i therefore believe that turkey must be substantially involved, even before accession, in european projects on energy or regional cooperation in the black sea and the mediterranean.
in writing. − the motion for a resolution on turkey draws attention to the human rights situation. the persistent deadlock between turkey and cyprus, poor dialogue between political parties, undermining of press freedom, women's rights and other fundamental rights are among the factors that have led to the slowdown in the pace of accession negotiations, according to the report proposal. the negotiations are considered to be 'an open and long-term process'. i believe that turkey's accession to the european union must be seen as a strategic interest for both sides: the eu and turkey. i therefore call on the turkish government to step up the reform process in order to fully meet the accession criteria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution in order to acknowledge montenegro’s progress towards european integration and highlight the remaining goals to be achieved for the benefit of its people. when the resolution was in the committee on foreign affairs, i contributed amendments concerning the efficiency and predictability of the justice system. the publication of all judgments and the unification of jurisprudence should be priorities in order to ensure public trust and a predictable judicial system. increased funding for courts to work fast and efficiently and consistent measures for training judges are also necessary. the efficiency of the eu funds spent in the area of justice reform and the combating of corruption must be assessed. the consistency of the rule of law throughout a nation is vital to its ability to progress politically and democratically.
in writing. − the 10-12 million roma should benefit from eu-wide minimum standards for access to jobs and education. the european parliament resolution seeking to influence the future roma inclusion strategy proposes better protection of fundamental rights as well as increased eu funding. romania understands best the difficulties and inertia of this minority. the union should be aware that resistance to change and social inclusion is very high in this ethnic group. gypsies have been victims of discrimination for centuries but at the same time of self-exclusion. this statement is very correct, but it must be understood that often the solutions we come up with are not adequate or are not understood by the roma. it is clear that the future eu strategy on the roma minority must focus on meeting and promoting the fundamental rights to work, housing, health and, in particular, education, even in the face of parental resistance. but no one should expect change to come quickly, and it may take several generations for this minority to adopt certain rules of social coexistence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a european-wide strategy for the integration of the roma minority is positive and welcome. this community needs special attention at european level, given the persistent problems of social and economic integration and the particular mobility of its members. however, i believe that the most important effort is yet to be made. strategies and action plans for roma integration have existed and exist at all levels, but what is missing is their proper implementation. to be successful, this new strategy must be implemented in the most appropriate way. in this regard, i believe that a structured dialogue between roma communities, the non-governmental environment and local authorities must be the basis for the implementation of the future strategy.
in writing. − the european approach to the roma problem has been and remains a deficient one. the report by lívia járóka in the libe committee, with the contributions of the other associated committees, should be a new impetus towards a real strategy for roma integration, a strategy that we expect from the commission next month. i believe that we are all keen to bring about real change for the roma community, to give them all the necessary conditions for social inclusion. that is why we need to focus on the political and financial instruments at our disposal and act directly in key areas such as education and health. collaboration at all levels, from the european to the local, is also fundamental, because without concerted action, all resources are lost. roma involvement in policy-making is a necessity and therefore solutions must be found to bring those who link the decision-making and implementation levels closer together. finally, we must recognise the importance of the message we are sending with this report, but we must not forget that the messages have been many and that the time has come for concrete action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i appreciate that it is extremely attentive to the complexity of the roma community in the eu and i dare say that when we have solved most of these problems, it means that most of the problems we are facing now as a european society will have been solved. i would just like to refer to how the use of the structural funds could support the priorities of the eu roma inclusion strategy. i think that a substantial allocation is needed for the economic and social development of these communities. if interventions are not supported financially or over a relevant period of time to produce the expected impact, the effects will not be what we expect today. it takes prioritization, smart spending and political commitment. otherwise, financial resources will be wasted. following this report, i look forward to the next steps the commission will take and hope that this strategy will bring the added value needed to deliver on the european approach to roma inclusion.
in writing. − a european strategy on roma is undoubtedly essential, as they are a european minority and are characterised by a high degree of cross-border mobility, given their way of life. i voted in favour of the resolution, mainly because it underlines the role that quality education and training plays as a factor influencing people's personal and professional lives and that education is therefore the surest way to ensure the integration of roma into society.
in writing. − we know that 10-12 million european roma continue to suffer serious systematic discrimination in education (where they are victims particularly of segregation), housing (particularly with forced evictions and sub-standard living conditions, often in ghettos), employment (their particularly low employment rate) and equal access to healthcare systems and other public services, as well as an astoundingly low level of political participation. the eu strategy on roma inclusion should embrace measures to ensure the monitoring of the situation of the roma in relation to the respect and promotion of their fundamental social rights, equality, non-discrimination and free movement in the eu, and also to provide education, training opportunities and job assistance for adults, which are crucial in order to support the recruitment and continued employment of the roma with the aim of avoiding the perpetuation of social exclusion. the commission and member states should address the particular needs of roma women by applying a gender perspective in all policies for roma inclusion and providing protection for especially vulnerable subgroups. therefore, i ask the commission to present annually to the european parliament a follow up of the eu strategy on roma inclusion in order to monitor the progress made at national level.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has affected european industry, making it even more difficult to adapt to the challenges of the shift to a knowledge-based and profitable industry, which is having a severe impact on industrial development and the labour market. to meet these challenges, i believe that an industrial policy approach is needed that combines competitiveness, sustainability and decent work and can lead to economic and employment boost, reduction of environmental degradation and improvement of the quality of life in the european union. this report supports industrial progress through smart and forward-looking regulation and market stimulation, based on coherent insights into market developments and supporting global trends towards green, sustainable and innovative forms of production, distribution and consumption. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the success of the industrial policy of the european union depends on its being firmly anchored in a new architecture of the financial sector, which promotes investment and prevents speculation, and in a macroeconomic policy in which the fiscal, economic and budgetary policy of the union is geared towards sustainable growth and job creation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it represents the way forward for a robust, cohesive and employment-based industrial policy for the european workforce. r&d is a key driver for innovation and trade and will remain one of the cornerstones for industrial policy in the eu. i believe that industry plays a key role in keeping jobs in europe and this is why we must enhance efforts to maintain a strong industrial base, become the most competitive economy in the world and ensure close-knit networks between companies in different member states in order to achieve shared industrial priorities. some of my amendments included in the report concern shortening the time to market for new products, ensuring that european manufacturing strengthens the foundations of the european economy and simplification of funding programmes for industry.
in writing. − the recent economic crisis has confirmed that smes remain the engine of economic and social development, with a key role in promoting economic competitiveness and job creation. i welcome this report and believe that the eu's instruments supporting competitiveness need to be reviewed and strengthened, with a view to streamlining administrative procedures and facilitating access to finance for smes. it is also imperative to introduce innovative incentive mechanisms based on the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives and to promote closer cooperation with financial institutions. an important form of innovation funding for smes through the european investment bank is the risk-sharing financing mechanism. but for it to succeed, the european commission needs to make much more resources available, including through the erdf innovation funds, to promote private direct investment and innovative financing mechanisms in favour of high-risk innovative projects and projects involving smes.
in writing. − eu industry is responsible for about 1/3 of the eu's gross value added, almost 3/4 of european exports are industrial goods, and 1/3 of employment, providing the livelihoods of some 57 million citizens (plus its multiplier effect, whereby each industrial job creates about two jobs in related services). there are 15 key elements: building an innovation chain, using resources more efficiently, clear targets for sustainable products, public procurement, improving clean energy production, a raw materials strategy, reorganising trade for fair coexistence and sustainable production, shaping a binding sectoral industrial policy, involving smes, regional areas of action, ensuring anticipation of industrial transformation, restructuring, upskilling, worker participation in decision-making, long-term policies. the eu's industrial policy must be geared both to a sustainable, environmentally efficient and globally competitive renewal of the industrial base and to a sustainable transition from a predominantly manufacturing-based industry to a knowledge-based industry, clearly committed to investing in the eu and to strategic partnerships between firms in the union.
in 2005, this regime comes to power on a nationalist rhetoric and a rhetoric of justice. we still fail to make iran a democratic regime, but we have succeeded in witnessing the only country that promotes on a large scale a despotic regime worthy of a dark age. ladies and gentlemen, i think iran is becoming one of the hot-button issues in our foreign policy, because we risk ignoring the enormous influence it has in north africa, by funding terrorist movements, i mean hamas and hezbollah. if the european union does not make a lucid assessment of iran's influence in this space, we risk not only this democratic deficit in iran, but in the european space, creating a serious deficit and a risk of threat to our security. i think it is time that solutions stopped following the classic formula that talleyrand promotes, that is to dance, and moved forward, at this moment, in a clear and firm decision.
the international scene is watching, almost helplessly, the worsening human rights situation in iran. yet, the tools we have to make our voices heard are not to be ignored. the lisbon treaty provides us, through the post of high representative, with a means of convincing the iranian government that human rights must not be curtailed by repression. they are an inalienable asset of the individual and cannot be questioned by any political regime. mass executions, especially of minors, stoning, discrimination against women, minorities, torture are unfortunately part of a much longer list. democratic change cannot be imposed from the outside, but the european union must constantly and not just in words support the people inside who risk their lives every day to protest against these injustices.
mr president, the current dogma is that iran will be the big winner of the revolutions in north africa and beyond. this is possible but less probable. firstly, the iranian model is not exactly what the young people who are revolting in these countries are aspiring to. secondly, the regime does not enjoy internal peace in order to concentrate exclusively on promoting a more assertive foreign policy. finally, because other countries like turkey – or even egypt after, but also during, transition – are powerful competitors to iran’s ambitions. of course iran can always derive a degree of influence through proxies, but that would probably not prove decisive in gaining control in those countries. paradoxically, the only way to derive an advantage would be to look at the current developments as an opportunity to start reinserting iran into the international community. it would be a long road but the only sensible one for iran. i congratulate mr belder on an excellent report.
today, iran joins the arab states in their quest for democracy, and my colleague belder's report describes in detail the situation in the country. the regime in tehran is firmly opposed to change, suppressing demonstrations and arresting the movement's leaders. i strongly condemn this attitude that has dominated iranian society for years. the people demand their right to free speech, and the government should listen to their demands. moreover, the iranian authorities have created a habit of violating human rights and here i would like to mention neda, the "angel of iran". they advocate the death penalty, practice stoning, execute juvenile offenders, all in defiance of its international obligations. iran's nuclear ambitions also endanger the population. recently, work at the newest nuclear power plant had to be halted because of contamination risks.
i do not know whether this session which is currently taking place will be a success or a failure, but i do know that this debate would have been worth having much earlier, so that the european union could have a coherent, articulate and, above all, effective voice at the session. it's a very difficult signal to send with this reform that's starting now, partly in new york, partly in geneva, to a world that's changing and has a big problem with a failure of a certain kind of human rights policy. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have to discuss very seriously this institutional mechanism created by the un, certainly without giving priority to certain rights, but we must discuss its effectiveness and, above all, consider whether it does not deserve to be one of the global bodies for immediate prevention and, in this context, i think that we must not only note what has happened so far, but also try to prevent it. a different approach to human rights issues i believe is imminent.
i would like to start by talking about those very skeptical, very pessimistic opinions, which, in recent times, have been based on the revolts in the mediterranean, that the middle east peace process risks becoming a kind of collateral victim. in this interpretation, the process would be further stalled, it would be deadlocked and there would be further drift. i think we needn't be so pessimistic about it. i believe, moreover, that it is precisely recent events that show us that significant progress is needed in the peace process and that, in this regard, we need european leadership, first and foremost to ensure that the deadline for reaching an agreement, september 2011, is respected. in this context, i would like to congratulate the high representative on her commitment and efforts over the past few months. to put the two-state solution into practice and to advance the cause of a comprehensive arab-israeli peace, i believe we must bring the two sides back to the negotiating table, and in this regard the quartet's initiative to consult separately the israeli and palestinian negotiators is a first step. of course we need to take the extra step. the revolutionary context in the mediterranean can, i believe, give new impetus to the peace process. but we must be careful that the changes that are taking place do not lead to a revision of the commitments previously made by some countries in the region in relation to israel.
mr president, the middle east question, complicated as it was, has become even more complicated lately. naturally the safe bet for everyone would be to wait and see. on the palestinian side, the question is who will tip the balance in their favour: hamas, supported by iran, gaining ground in the west bank – more probable – or fatah reasserting its presence in gaza – less probable. then jordan, a key country which is engulfed in turmoil, might blow up the entire peace process. as for israel, apparently there are two schools of thought: one favouring a restart of the current negotiations through breakthrough proposals, the other favouring the same ‘wait and see’ policy. however, with the vision and determination to take the right turn at each of these crossroads, there is a chance that the current impasse can be overcome, however far off that might appear now.
vice-president of the council/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i will try to deal with as many of the issues that were raised as possible but, as always, when we debate the middle east peace process, there is a real sense of urgency and a strong desire in this house to see us make progress. let me just tell you that this is reflected a thousandfold in the work that i try to do to see what we are able to achieve as the european union. i absolutely want us to move away from ever hearing the phrase ‘payer, not a player’ again. i am sick of it. i have heard it enough. i do not criticise members here for saying it. it is simply just a travesty of the role of the european union, but i think it does reflect historically some of the ways in which we perhaps were perceived. i have worked really hard in the course of this year to change that, not least on the ground, and i will say more about that in a moment. i want to begin with you, mr salafranca, because you asked me about some very specific points. we began with the issue of the veto of the security council by the united states – the 14 to 1 vote on the settlements proposal, the resolution that was put forward by lebanon on the day, because they are part of the security council – which, as you know, created a huge amount of what we might call noise in the system and beyond. i was in the middle east with the palestinians during the course of those final days leading up to that vote. all the eu countries on the security council voted against the american position and voted for the resolution. our position is absolutely clear. we are all united in recognising that the settlements are illegal under international law. those of you who, like me, have seen the settlements will know that actually they are not in anyone’s long-term interest and would have to be resolved ultimately by determination of the borders. our proposals have been the 1967 borders with appropriate swapping of territory, which is for the parties to agree and not for us to say, but i am sure would take into account the reality of people’s lives and where they live. i do not think it has had a dramatic long-term effect on the relationship with the us, not least because the united states has worked very hard to explain its position – and i am not going to try to explain it for them – and to continue to work with the palestinians. i think that the palestinians have understood the position that the united states found itself in. so there is still a huge amount of work going on, but i do not want in any way to suggest that it was not a difficult time. i was very well aware of that. you asked me about the palestinian elections called for september, which hamas has refused to participate in. you will also know – and you will have seen it – that prime minister fayyad is busy looking at the possibilities for some sort of reconciliation. i will be speaking to him soon about that among many other things. i am not sure whether the elections will now go ahead. that will be for them to decide. i know that they are thinking about the best way forward. you also asked me about the leaks that occurred from the palestinian side. you know that mr erkat, who was the chief negotiator, is moving to a new position as a senior advisor for president abbas on the grounds that it was from his office and he must take responsibility for it. i think it had two effects. one is, of course, great concern about what was going on. when you are trying to pull together a negotiating position, lots of things are said. many of them do not end up in the final documents but people – and this is right and proper – spend time thinking about the different positions. so without doubt there was concern in ramallah and beyond, and on the west bank and beyond, about what was being said. interestingly, there was an equal and opposite reaction whereby, i think in parts of the israeli press, when they saw what they thought was a palestinian position, they asked, why are we not engaging with this? so it had an interesting effect on raising the debate. perhaps in the longer term – although i am never a fan of leaking anything, because it prevents people from developing good policy – this might not have the effect that originally we might have seen. let me just kill off this association agreement discussion, which is why i kept shaking my head. what has not happened is a change in the existing framework and the position. progress in the association agreement remains dependent upon progress in the middle east peace process. what was being described was the aspiration to want to have those stronger relations, because we do believe in a two-state settlement and we do believe in the future of israel. we want to see a strong israel – economically, politically, all of those things – as we wish to see a strong palestinian state, but we cannot make progress until we see progress in the middle east peace process. i agree with ms neyts-uyttebroeck that it is really important that we start to speed up. this has been a point that i have made consistently in israel and to the palestinian authority. we have to get moving. there are two reasons for this. one is that the region is changing and those changes demand it and, as mr arlacchi said, there is a change in the region that demands that we recognise that an egypt – not that i believe that egypt wishes to create a problem militarily with israel, i do not at all – a democratic egypt moving forward will want to look again at the issue that is on its doorstep. i think it is the interests of both. i genuinely believe it is in the interests of the people of israel as much as of the palestinian people to find a solution now. this could be a really important part of a secure, stable region. i have said that and will continue to say it, and will continue to say it to all our partners, including everybody in the quartet. mr belder, we have to get, as you say, to direct negotiations but we have to do it by making sure the positions of the parties are credible and credible with each other as well. it is really important that the palestinians are able to go to the negotiating table with the support of the arab league. i speak with amr moussa on this subject. i will see him again in cairo. he will be leaving the arab league in may, i think on 14 may. he is becoming a presidential candidate in egypt, as i understand it. it is very important that the palestinians can carry the people with them. that is important for them and it is also important for israel and for the security of both. so all of this is tied up with trying to make sure that progress is linked to a certainty about being able to carry the people and the other partners who need to be engaged with that. mr lambsdorff, thank you for your comments. i think the quartet is a really important vehicle, but it is not everything. i am trying to make sure that we make progress on that. i feel very strongly that we have played an important part. i think we have played an extremely important part over the past weeks and months in how we have been able to keep momentum going. we need to get further and faster. with the quartet envoys meetings that are taking place, we need to use that opportunity. when the envoys arrived last week in brussels, i sat with them for an hour to discuss how i saw the possibilities and to impress upon them the importance of using these meetings with the israelis and the palestinians. i do not mind where we meet the envoys. i understand with the palestinians and with the israelis that sometimes they are very nervous about what is happening. so if we go to jerusalem to meet the israeli negotiator, i do not care where we go. let us just have the meetings and actually for the very first time get the envoys meeting with the negotiators and having the chance to explore the positions in a way that we have not done before. for me that really matters. when i talked about gaza and kerem shalom, i really was not trying to suggest that there is only one crossing. we did a complete piece of work on looking at the whole of the infrastructure on the crossings because, when i went into gaza and met with businesses, particularly, but also in talking to the young people – and i went to the summer schools last year which we fund – it did seem to me that one of the most important issues for gaza was to get the economy moving as quickly as possible. i respect the fact – and i meet with the israeli general who is in charge of opening the crossing each time i go and get an update – that there is some movement. i appreciate that. however, we wanted to make sure that we enabled exports in particular, which is vital for the crossings and vital for the economy, because getting more goods in if you do not have an economy does not help you as much as if you can do both. so, getting that to happen mattered. kerem shalom was the one where we saw that we could do three things. first of all, we could put in the infrastructure – the road that would enable it to be used more frequently – and, secondly, we could put in the equipment that would enable the scanning to be done much more quickly to get the flow of goods moving. thirdly, we could also train the palestinian people as part of our mission. eur 5.3 million is what it will cost. we can do it and we are ready to roll. the reason that matters is because, although of course i want to see a much bigger solution for gaza, it is important that we offer our support to enable things to happen quickly that can help to alleviate that situation. so that is my particular reference for kerem shalom. we looked at karni. there are other crossings we have looked at, but that is the one where we can make a specific contribution right now. we will try to do so but it does not alter the basic premise of what we have said – that the crossings need to be open, that people need to move freely and be able to do that as quickly as possible. i just want to say to mr campbell bannerman that i do not mind you attacking me, but please, let us get the facts right. most of the money that you are describing – and in fact there is more of it – is used for spending outside. it is not actually for my service. it is in order that we can build democracies, support human rights, the instrument for stability, development and so on, which i know you and other members of your group – and i think everyone in this house – absolutely supports one hundred percent. you want us to support the people of egypt, the people of tunisia and the people of libya. well, that is some money that we use to do it across the world over time. the budget for the european external action service is eur 460 million. that funds 135 delegations, the central staff, everything that we do all over the world. it is less than 50% of the british foreign office’s budget. so if you want to attack me for that, that is fine, but please do not accuse me of having billions and billions of euros that somehow i am using for a sparkling building or anything else. that is the amount that i have for the moment to be able to spend under the budget that exists. i will try to spend it as well as i possibly can in the interests of the things that i believe in and which this house believes in. the rest of it is for us to give to other people who need it to achieve what we think is right. i have been talking too long but, mr arlacchi, it is true that things in the middle east are changing and the terms are changing. what is really interesting, as we build the platform on which we operate, is to be able to look at the potential in the region – whether it is in lebanon and the possibilities of what could happen there, whether it is in terms of the middle east peace process and certainly what is happening in egypt and also in my conversations with jordan, where i speak to the foreign minister frequently. we talk about the opportunities that we have there. so i think it is the moment where we can really make changes. i want to just say something about the relationships that we have. i work very hard at the relationships with israel and the palestinians and i talk to a lot of people. i talk to the leaders of both, privately for many hours and with other people in the meetings. i respect those conversations very much, but i tell you the european union is respected in both countries and i intend to keep it that way because that is about a two-state solution. they will tell me about things they do not like. i am glad they do, but i think they have respect for the position that we are trying to take. we do not have a marginal role. we have a realistic role. the role that we are able to play is one that i understand and i use to the best effect i can. i cannot do what other countries can do. i do not have the power to do some things, but what we can do is use our economic and political muscle – in the best sense of that word – to be able to try and support this process going forward. i devote more energy to this probably than to anything else that we do. ms dodds asked whether the neighbourhood policy had failed. it has not, but it definitely fits into the ‘could do better’ category. i said a long time ago that we need to review the policy. stefan füle and i have started that work. the events of the last few weeks have proved we need to do it, to make it more effective, more able to achieve what we want and to be flexible and recognise that in the different countries we need a differentiated approach that will really deliver for the people on the ground the things that they want against the values and aspirations that we hold for them and for ourselves. i have upgraded the post of special envoy to deputy secretary-general for the moment because i think it is so important that the quartet envoy is somebody who is absolutely at the heart and who is our political director. i thank marc otte for his contribution. once helga schmid has finished this piece of work and we see where we going, i will then look to see what we should do for the future to make sure that we are properly represented in the region. finally, mr swoboda, you asked me about the iranian ship. as i understand it, the position is that the iranians said they were doing a training mission in support of their work to combat piracy off the coast of somalia. permission was given for it to go through on that basis. as far as i am aware – and that is the last information i had because, obviously, as soon as we heard we asked for the information – as a training mission with that in mind i do not think there was any reason for the egyptians to deny them access. whether that was what was happening or not is another thing altogether. honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i hope in my response i have covered as many of the issues as possible.
in writing. the situation in the middle east and the mediterranean is at a particularly sensitive moment, as the high representative also mentioned in his speech. i think this is a good opportunity for the eu to focus on the peace process in the region. israel is one of the union's most important trading partners, while thanks to university international exchange programmes, students from all over europe have access to study centres in israel. i also remind you that the middle east is where the challenges of the future are already taking concrete form. one example is drinking water management. the arab revolutions have created an atmosphere of instability in the mediterranean region, and israel is particularly affected. recently, due to such security risks, a border crossing point was closed, with kerem shalom remaining the only fully secure commercial crossing. here the israeli authorities concentrate their efforts to ensure the normal flow of civil and commercial traffic. in this context, i believe that the swift resumption of negotiations to reach a peaceful solution is vital. and the eu's involvement in this process can provide the necessary support for the smooth running of the dialogue.
as regards the alignment of unit costs with labour and productivity levels, i believe that we should focus on framework conditions and less on indicators. it's not clear that we can achieve this alignment. productivity depends, first of all, on factors like the accumulated capital stock which is extremely different. the categorical difference between romania and germany is noticeable. this is due to the different quality of economic policies over time, and such gaps cannot be recovered overnight. my country has made efforts towards pension and welfare reform. i would therefore like to suggest that such provisions be included in the competitiveness pact. i support the need to correlate retirement age with demographic trends. the impact of a coherent and realistic pension policy on public finances must be taken into account.
i understand very well the principle of subsidiarity, but i think pensions have moved beyond the national sphere and are now the subject of a european debate. we are talking about unsustainable pension systems as a result of common challenges such as the financial crisis, the ageing population and the declining birth rate. the principle of solidarity between generations is at risk of becoming obsolete, as citizens are encouraged to contribute to private pensions. what, though, about those who no longer have enough time to contribute to such pensions? in addition, european citizens are dependent on public pensions. in romania the gross minimum wage per economy is about 160 euros. that's why investing in private pensions or saving, in my view, are utopias. i believe that the european commission needs to be more involved in proposing a minimum level for both wages and pensions at european level, and a first step in this direction could be a comparative analysis of pension systems.
in writing. according to eurostat, in january 2011, the minimum monthly income varies between eur 123 in bulgaria, eur 157 in romania and eur 1758 in luxembourg. in 20 of the 27 member states, the minimum income is set by law or by a national cross-sectoral agreement. in 11 member states the minimum income is between 100 and 400 eur/month, in 5 member states between 550 and 950 eur/month and in 6 member states it exceeds 1100 eur/month. the development and strengthening of the internal market ensures that businesses have access to the more than 500 million european consumers. however, the persisting gap between minimum income levels in the member states is a barrier to both the accessibility of european companies to european consumers and their access to quality products and services. i consider social dialogue to be particularly important for ensuring social equity and a decent living for all european citizens. we call on the commission and the member states to guarantee equal pay for equal work in the internal labour market, to remove barriers to the free movement of workers and to examine the possibility of ensuring a minimum wage, agreed by law or through collective bargaining, which guarantees european citizens a decent living.
after the ecological disaster in hungary last october, i raised the issue of disaster prevention in the extractive industry with the european commission on several occasions. in mining, the impact of accidents can often be transboundary. the european union is even more obliged to ensure that all possible measures are taken to reduce the risk of accidents and to improve the speed and efficiency of responses should they nevertheless occur. in response to my questions, i received confirmation from the commission that the waste dumped into the environment, including the danube, in the case of the accident in hungary, was in fact toxic, although this fact had initially been denied by the authorities. it's a clear example of regulations not being applied, and this situation needs to change as quickly as possible. the european commission has a duty to act urgently following the resolution adopted by parliament last year calling for a ban on the use of cyanide-based technologies in mining, as they pose huge cross-border threats to ecosystems.
the report on a community approach to the prevention of natural and man-made disasters, adopted in september 2010, contains several important references directly concerning agriculture. in particular, the report refers to the fact that agricultural production is vulnerable to climatic phenomena such as drought, frost, hail, forest fires, floods, landslides and others. the report also contains a number of important suggestions for mitigating the consequences of these problems; the author has already mentioned the idea of insurance for agriculture. i would like to draw attention to the importance of effectively managing these challenges, especially in the context of a future common agricultural policy which proposes agriculture as both a food and a significant environmental protection role.
one of the biggest challenges facing the european union today is the increase in the intensity and consequences of natural disasters. according to statistics, in the last 20 years, 953 disasters in europe have caused almost 90 000 deaths and economic losses of 269 billion dollars. to counteract the effects of these phenomena, a risk map and a coherent environmental management plan are needed. the preservation and expansion of forest areas and urban green spaces must be a priority for all of us. it is essential to give due weight to information and education of the population in order to prevent the effects of disasters. the international day for disaster risk reduction is a good example of this. i also think that all the instruments should be made more efficient... (the president interrupts the speaker)
author. - the volcanic eruption last april led to the closure of many sectors of european airspace. the ensuing crisis affected over 10 million passengers and had severe economic repercussions; due to the lack of coordination between institutions, the lack of specifications and flexibility, and the under-utilisation of technical resources, the solution of the volcanic ash crisis was left undesirable. i said then and i still say that it is extremely important to take the necessary measures to ensure that a new volcanic eruption does not have the same repercussions. the responsibility for the safety of a flight, including the avoidance of a gray area, shall be the responsibility of the operator and the crew. operators need to be provided with accurate data to enable them to apply optimal solutions. pilots shall be prepared to handle extraordinary flight conditions and have the experience to assess risk and make decisions related to flight re-routing. for this process to work as well as possible, several elements are needed: improved surveillance and forecasting, more investment in ground and airborne equipment. the technical structure must be able to provide accurate real-time data and stable forecasts, and current technology can ensure this. the use of more centres to collect and transmit this information will improve risk assessment and appropriate flight planning. in order to provide operators with this information for decision-making, the role of the institutions involved in crisis management needs to be clarified. the regulatory body should be responsible for oversight, the ash advisory centres are responsible for notifying air navigation service providers of eruptions and high risk areas. service providers must inform aircraft crews of areas at high risk of ash contamination. the parties involved shall be prepared for effective crisis management through simulation exercises. i consider it absolutely necessary that easa develop the necessary specifications clarifying the responsibilities and control at operational level. the achievement of the single european sky and the implementation of sesar would greatly facilitate decision-making and considerably reduce the impact in crisis situations. i think these are the key points that need to be addressed to ensure that we are prepared to manage this kind of situation successfully in the future.
the icelandic volcanic eruption, as well as the massive snowfall last year, have seriously disrupted european air traffic, with significant economic and social consequences. in order to avoid such situations in the future, i would like to ask the commission what are the main new regulations it is considering to strengthen the legislative framework on air passenger rights. in addition to the ash cloud centres of expertise in london and toulouse, which are part of the international system of nine such centres established by icao and the london centre for the issuance of ash cloud risk maps, there is a need to improve the european infrastructure also through a real-time ash cloud concentration measurement system. regulation 1070/2009 on improving the performance of the european aviation system requires member states to take the necessary measures to ensure the implementation of functional airspace blocks by 4 december 2012. i ask the commission whether the implementation of the single european sky will respect the established timetable. the european union also needs convenience and a system of booking and ticketing for european routes involving several modes of transport. the european union needs a high-speed rail system that links all the capitals and major european cities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must be swift in preventing and combating any possible attacks on the fundamental values of democracy, freedom of expression being one of them. i believe it is fundamental that hungary, like other member states such as romania, should review its attitude towards the press, in line with the democratic principles stipulated in the eu charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights.
in writing. − i support the amendment of the provisions of the hungarian press law considered by the european commission to be less democratic and welcome the amendments to the law by the budapest government. however, i did not vote for the resolution signed by the s&d, alde, greens and gue political groups because the proposed measures seem excessive to me when we take into account similar laws in other member states, but which have not been publicly sanctioned. certainly, a free press is the measure of how democratic a society is. in the european union, it is well known that freedom of expression is virtually unlimited. this fundamental right should not be confused with the freedom to give information without consequences, without responsibility and without conclusive evidence. that is why clear laws are needed to set the boundaries within which journalism must operate. the hungarian press law was drafted in this context, following the european directive in this field. furthermore, i think we need to speak with knowledge on the subject of the hungarian press law, given that we can be misled by partisan interests and political disputes.
in writing. − the 16th session of the un human rights council provides a unique opportunity to assess how the council has fulfilled its mandate and, at the same time, an opportunity to improve the council's working methods with a view to more effective and systematic responses to human rights violations. i consider it essential that a working group on human rights be set up within the council of the eu, including human rights experts from all 27 eu member states, with its headquarters in brussels. it would also be very useful to appoint an eu high level special representative for human rights. i hope that the eeas, in particular the eu delegations in geneva and new york, will in the future increase the coherence, visibility and credibility of eu action in the un human rights council by developing the eu's capacity to interact and cooperate interregionally.
the assassination of pakistan's minority minister, mr. bhati, comes amid controversy over the amendment of the law that provided for the death penalty for blasphemy in that country, an amendment that he had advocated. i believe that the intolerance underlying the laws on the punishment of blasphemy has also led to the deplorable assassinations of some personalities who were fighting for freedom of expression and belief in pakistan. at the same time, mr. bhati's case has been condemned by a large part of pakistani society in the political world, in the media and by people of various ethnic backgrounds and religious beliefs, and this is a positive sign. the government of pakistan therefore has a duty to prevent the recurrence of intolerance-based violence and to continue its efforts to uphold the democratic values enshrined in the constitution of pakistan, the universal principles of human rights and freedom of thought.
in writing. – shahbaz bhatti, minister for minorities in pakistan, sought to reform the country’s blasphemy laws and he was killed. the pakistani taliban reportedly took responsibility for the murder and pronounced the same fate for any further critics of the blasphemy laws. it is time for strong action to protect the reformers and human rights defenders who are risking their lives for freedom. i call upon the council and the european external action service to ensure the protection of the other human rights defenders at risk in pakistan and the effective and timely investigation of minister shahbaz bhatti’s assassination. the perpetrators must be brought to justice and the response of the government must be firm in order to have a deterrent effect.
two days ago, on march 8, international women's day, natalia rodina was unable to enjoy the celebration because she was under house arrest. on the same day, ales mikhalevich was celebrating his 53rd birthday in prison. this is simply because he is a free man, a man who dared to enter the presidential race, and in a dictatorship like belarus, the penalty for such gestures of freedom is that of restricted movement, imprisonment. i would like to stress two points from our resolution which i think are very important: i think we must support the extension of the restrictive measures imposed by the union to include prosecutors, judges and members of the secret police involved in the recent human rights violations in belarus and i also think that, secondly, we must do everything possible to support civil society in this country, it can give us hope. (applause) thank you very much.
i would like to start by calling on the belarusian authorities to stop censoring democratic forces and independent media. i also propose the reopening of the osce office in belarus. human rights suffered a severe blow in the december 2010 presidential elections. demonstrations of the opposition against electoral fraud were ruthlessly suppressed by the security forces. among those arrested is one of the presidential candidates, ales mikhalevich. he has publicly revealed the torture he suffered in prison, which was denied by the authorities. journalists close to the opposition were also targeted. despite the ban on statements, they confirmed mikhalevich's claims in the hope of drawing the eu's attention to the critical situation in belarus. the conditions under which the arrests took place are unclear, and the treatment they allege they have been subjected to represents serious human rights violations.
i would also like to join those calling on the council, the commission and the international community to step up their support for civil society and the democratic opposition in belarus in response to the events since december 2010. the arrest and detention of over 600 civil society activists, journalists, teachers and students and of most presidential candidates, democratic opposition leaders, as well as the disproportionate use of force following demonstrations against the election of lukashenko, represent typical elements of a dictatorship and a deep disregard for human rights. the case of ales mikhalevich, one of president lukashenko's opponents who was tortured during pre-trial detention, as well as the journalist natalia radin, are significant for a reality that we must counter by supporting the efforts of belarusian civil society, independent media and the opposition to promote democracy.
on behalf of the s&d group. personally, i think we should avoid judgments from a one-sided perspective in this case. there is a risk of counterproductive partisanship, both in relation to the situation on the ground and for the eu-china partnership. the bloody violence of recent years in xinjiang is eloquent proof that the use of force is the most unfortunate alternative, which is why i believe it is our duty to encourage inter-ethnic dialogue. in my view, the european parliament's resolution should not affect the right of the chinese authorities to defend the integrity of their country and the safety of all citizens, especially in the face of the terrorist threat in a region where al qaeda is seeking to establish a presence. it is clear that we must encourage balanced development at national level, both economically and demographically. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, future generations depend on our actions today to protect timeless sites such as kashgar. kashgar is a fundamental pillar of the history of islam in china. in 2009 the chinese government announced an urban reconstruction programme that plans to demolish 85% of the old city of kashgar and replace it with modern apartments. the demolition should be stopped. urban planners should identify a development plan that preserves the old city of kashgar. the whole silk road in china should be submitted for protection under unesco’s world heritage programme, which china joined in 1985. i call on the commission and the council to raise these matters with the chinese authorities.
the old city center of kashgar is in danger, and with it, the historical landmark of china's uighur minority. the policy of so-called urban reorganization is leading to the gradual disappearance of the identity of this group, which built its culture around the silk road fortress. i believe that the removal of the uyghur population from their traditional homes and the demolition of kashgar are measures that violate the rights of minorities. furthermore, the city is considered to be the best preserved example of islamic architecture in central asia. kashgar's streets and buildings can be restored to improve the living conditions of the residents. the question is why aren't the authorities investing in such works? i recommend that the old city centre be included in the unesco world heritage list as part of the silk road. i also call on the chinese government to stop the demolition of the city and to look for alternative solutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a stability mechanism for the euro area member states, considering that this mechanism is moving towards better coordination of economic policies at european level. a comprehensive package of measures is also needed to pursue economic stability and increased competitiveness in the eu.
in writing. − i consider the stability mechanism for the member states whose currency is the euro to be particularly important and essential for the consolidation of the single currency and for the european political and economic project. the consolidation and stability of the single currency gives market certainty and attracts new member states to the euro. it is a fundamental issue for european growth and development, values which i support from all points of view. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
i think we all agree on the ultimate objective of the intervention that is taking place in libya, which is to bring a complete end to the intolerable violence and abuses committed by the gaddafi regime against civilians. paragraph 8 of security council resolution 1973 constitutes, i believe, an indisputable legal basis for ensuring, by all possible means, the observance of the no-fly zone established precisely for the purpose of protecting civilians. i would also like to recall that, before the adoption of resolution 1973, the european parliament was among the first international institutions to call for the establishment of such an area at the last plenary session in strasbourg. in the run-up to the european council which opens tomorrow, two elements seem to me important to ensure the success of the intervention in libya, and i think the key words should be coordination and clarity. coordination, first of all, at union level, in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, on humanitarian issues; coordination with nato - our action must, i believe, be complementary to that of nato; coordination, finally, with the arab league, because regional support continues to be an indispensable element of our action in libya. finally, clear on our determination to end violence against civilians. the clarity of our message is a major factor in resolving this situation.
i consider it essential, in the european council discussions of 24-25 march, to complete a credible legislative package on strengthening economic governance in the european union. in this respect, cohesion policy, together with the common agricultural policy, is a priority area in the negotiations on the new budget of the european union after 2013. maintaining a significant share of cohesion policy in the post-2013 community budget is essential for the european union to meet its ambitious targets and to properly support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. cohesion policy must, however, generate investment efficiency mainly through strategic programming of funds, thematic concentration of objectives and simplification of implementation rules.
in writing. i believe it is imperative that investment in education, research and innovation is made with the support of all member states, immediately, in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and thus make economic recovery a reality. as a representative of the european people, i support mrs balzani's report and agree that the european union needs to improve its financial means so that it can be a competitor on the international political and economic scene, at a time when the challenges of the present require increased competitiveness on the part of international actors. last but not least, to have a strong economy, a basic objective should be related to employment. the european union needs skilled people in all areas, competent people and increased productivity in all its sectors.
in writing. europe must learn from the nuclear incidents in japan and commit to ensuring nuclear safety at european level. the energy mix remains the responsibility of the member states, but nuclear safety is defined by european legislation, which needs to be revised in the light of the safety tests for nuclear power plants recently proposed by the commission. we must not forget that the eu's dependence on energy imports is enormous and that member states must find solutions to provide their own energy sources. the eu needs a common energy policy which must be based on an optimal balance between renewable energy, new technologies for conventional energy resources and the need to ensure the safe production of nuclear energy. on libya, the council must find a new european partnership with the countries of the southern neighbourhood. this partnership implies close political cooperation to ensure the transition to democracy in these countries. the european commission should also present as soon as possible a plan for managing migration flows, which takes account of solidarity between member states and strengthens frontex's technical and operational capacity. however, this plan must not diminish the eu's focus on the eastern partnership.
the crisis now unfolding in japan is raising concerns about the safety of nuclear power plants worldwide. we are forced to ask ourselves how resilient and safe are the nuclear power plants built on our soil. i come from romania, and the citizens of my country are rightly concerned about the safety of the cernavoda plant, especially as the press is raising many questions about it these days. i am sure that this is not the case in romania alone and that in several member states the population is wondering whether it is sufficiently protected in the event of natural disasters that could affect nuclear power stations. last week, germany decided to take a hard look at its nuclear power generation systems. in the light of events in japan, an urgent review of the nuclear safety situation is absolutely necessary at eu level. all member states should have recourse to strict and comprehensive controls of these plants. the european commission must ensure that the nuclear safety directive is correctly implemented, but also closely monitor, together with the competent authorities in the member states, the state of these plants. the dramatic situation in japan shows us once again that we must do everything possible to create rapid response mechanisms in case of disasters.
in writing. i join my colleagues in expressing our condolences to japan and the japanese people for the tragedy they are going through. the eu must stand by japan with all the forces it is able to mobilise to launch and carry out the reconstruction programmes. i have followed the debate closely and i must say, however, that i cannot accept turning such a drama into a crusade against nuclear energy. this energy is cheap, green, and the advances in technology will make it increasingly safe. the crash of a plane, for example, is also a tragedy, but i do not think it is a sufficient reason to doubt the usefulness and safety of airplanes. the correct solution is: stress tests, yes, surveillance, yes, demonizing nuclear power, no!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur mr schwab and his team of rapporteurs for opinions and shadow rapporteurs for their very good work on this report. it took a long time to choose a line that would be balanced enough for both consumers and businesses. i welcome the overall compromise that has been agreed by all political groups and i believe that this is an important step forward for all consumers in the european union. there are significant improvements such as the provision of clear information requirements in contracts, and the harmonisation of the provisions on the right of withdrawal. of course it is a compromise, it is not perfect. an example is article 22a which obliges the trader to deliver in other member states. there are products and services which due to their nature should not be covered here, namely perishable goods. problems might also arise with digital products. the initial intention of promoting cross-border business is very important and is very good, and i really hope that during the forthcoming negotiations with the council we will manage to make these adjustments to achieve an optimal result.
i believe that all consumers should have the right to receive information before entering into a contract. traders should inform consumers and obtain their consent, including to any condition whereby an amount is blocked on their credit or debit card. it is also important to protect consumers from abusive contractual clauses. unfortunately, many times, for banking, insurance, electronic communications, or tourism services, the contract terms are written on the back in very small letters, and often the customer signs the sign-up form or invoice without reading the contract terms on the back. even if they read all the terms of the contract and disagree with one of them, the customers have no bargaining power. in such a case, the first response the consumer receives is that there is a standard contract of the company and that it cannot be changed. national consumer protection authorities should check these standard contracts to protect consumers against unfair terms.
in line with the eu 2020 strategy, a high level of consumer protection guarantees high quality products but also guarantees consumer confidence, thus fostering the effectiveness of the internal markets. in view of consumer rights, the current minimum rules give all member states the freedom to adapt european-level rules to domestic principles, and i believe that this approach should be maintained. the european union can facilitate better harmonisation of the internal market with a higher level of consumer protection by raising the minimum level of harmonisation currently practised to the level of best practices existing at national level. i believe that the european system of non-compliance liability must be fair so that consumer protection and confidence in the markets are improved and the useful life of products is extended.
in writing. i am pleased that after tomorrow's vote we will be able to have a legislative framework that ensures better harmonisation of consumer rights in the eu. on the other hand, i would like to congratulate the european commission for initiating this draft directive which brings together four existing directives into one legislative instrument. i also stress that, once it is implemented, we can finally guarantee the citizens of the 27 member states of the european union that they can rely on a high level of consumer protection. at the same time, i want to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and for adding essential articles to this report, which regulate the rights of those who buy goods and services online.
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, significant results can be achieved by investing in energy efficiency measures in the buildings and transport sectors. when the directive on the quality of transport fuels was adopted, we had a lot of debate. the automotive industry then felt that to increase the share of biofuel fuel, a longer period was needed to design and build new engines capable of withstanding increased pressure from steam. the final text of the directive, however, obliges both car manufacturers and fuel producers to invest in reducing emissions and improving fuel quality. i believe that in order to reduce the polluting emissions generated by the transport sector, the european union should invest as a priority in the development of a pan-european smart electricity grid, capable of taking over locally and regionally produced energy from renewable energy sources and being integrated into the infrastructure necessary for the use of electric vehicles.
in writing. – having visited the oil sands in canada last year, i am an eyewitness of this phenomenon. i had the opportunity to engage in extensive consultations with the albertan government and the federal government in canada regarding this issue. before i went to canada, friends of the earth europe, wwf and transport and environment gave me questions to ask the albertan government regarding the oil sands. i received answers to all of these questions from the albertan minister for international relations. it was conveyed to me that canada is fully committed to reducing global ghg emissions and de-carbonising fossil fuels, and has pointed out that studies show that the ghg intensity of oil from tar sands can be equal to or less than some other fuels. on the other hand there are remaining concerns about public health, biodiversity and local wildlife. i would encourage the commission to send an expert group to visit the oil sands in canada to conduct an independent analysis of the oil sands, as it will be proposing amendments to the fuel quality directive before december 2012, with a possibility of introducing additional measures for suppliers to reduce by 2% the lifecycle ghg per unit of energy.
in writing. i would stress that the european commission's proposal does not represent the reform of the 'gsp' as called for by the european parliament in its resolution of 5 june 2008, but merely an extension of the current set of rules. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that this regulation, which was drafted in 2008, should be immediately revised and adapted to the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force subsequently. through this treaty, the european parliament has new powers in the field of trade and must have a say on the eligibility criteria, the list of beneficiary countries and the temporary withdrawal of gsp preferences. in the future, a general review of the regulation will be needed, aiming at better involving beneficiary countries in their reform processes, providing technical assistance to build their institutional capacity and revising and harmonising the rules of origin.
this parliament has been discussing a lot lately about the poor way the food supply chain in europe is working and has even approved a report on this. i will give a few examples of customs prices for products imported into the community and, by comparison, prices on the shelves in shops, which were made public in romania today. the potatoes are imported at an average price of 15 cents per kilogram and reach the shelf at 80 cents per kilogram. sugar is bought for 50 euro cents and reaches the shelf at 1.15 €. poultry meat is bought for €1.25 and sold in shops at an average price of €2.10/kg. the same newspaper that published this statistic showed that last year potatoes rose 45 percent, while gold rose only 40 percent. it is an aberrant situation which must be stopped and the solutions, i believe, must be sought by the european commission and the european parliament.
more and more areas of the world are being affected by climate change and natural disasters. the most recent is the tragic situation in japan. the eu's common agricultural policy must respond to these challenges, but also guarantee food security as a strategic global issue. the increase in population leads to a need for more food, and on the supply side we have a growing shortage. as the right to food is a fundamental right, food security is and must remain a priority for the european union, and the strategies implemented under the common agricultural policy must be matched by an appropriate budget to meet these challenges. i believe that the budget allocated to the common agricultural policy must at least remain at the present level or even be adapted to the new needs created by these disasters, which do not take into account borders and nationality, but perhaps only the geographical area.
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, since they cause almost 2 million deaths per year in all 27 member states. in some countries, like my country, romania, this amounts to 50% of all deaths. the treatment of such chronic diseases also represents a significant financial burden for healthcare systems, estimated at some eur 92 billion a year for the whole eu. we need to make further efforts to promote healthy lifestyles and raise awareness of cardiovascular diseases. we, as members of the european parliament, should communicate better with citizens on the dangers of alcohol abuse, unhealthy diets and lack of physical activity. this is the only way can manage to lower the incidence of cardiovascular diseases amongst eu citizens, and hence the negative impact on national health budgets.
the romanian government has adopted, by way of accountability, a new labour code that violates the right of romanians to social protection. the reason given for this new code is the need to make the market more flexible and to create new jobs, but no one, neither the trade unions nor the employers, has asked for this change to the old code, nor do they agree with the new measures. in reality, the labour code promoted by the government is not aimed at flexibilization, but at the drastic politicization of the public sector and the brutal striking of employees through provisions such as the elimination of the collective labour contract, the elimination of trade union rights, collective dismissals without compensatory payments. in this way, the government is victimizing the very people who work and who are supporting, through their work, the desperate effort to overcome the crisis.
in the course of the rivalry, the parties always found the culprits, who were called responsible for the injuries suffered. i'd like to call attention to a case like this. count esterházy jános was interned by the nazis at the end of world war ii and then by the soviets after the communist occupation. in the czech republic and slovakia it is still considered a war crime, while the russian supreme court, mr paška, ruled it a crime of no consequence in 1993, and the polish president awarded him the prestigious polonia restituta just two years ago today. esterházy helped hundreds of jews, czechs, slovaks, poles to escape, he was the only member of the slovak parliament, mr. paška, who voted against the jewish laws in 1942 and raised his voice. the common construction of a united europe could only begin after the ruins of the second world war had been cleared, including the rehabilitation of personalities like esterházy. the remaining ruins must be cleared by us.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr baudis, on his report. the house also welcomed the fact that the eu had to take action to combat terrorism and that the eu had to take action to combat terrorism. the events in bahrain show the need for an intensification of political dialogue between the two international organisations. so i think the six arab states can signal the peaceful transformation of society by improving the human rights situation. on the other hand, the eu's oil supply is affected by events in the mediterranean area. in this situation, cooperation between the union and the council is essential to meet energy needs and avoid price increases on the world market. i also believe it is time that 20 years of negotiations should end with the signing of the free trade agreement, so beneficial to both sides.
in writing. the adoption of the baudis report is welcome as a coherent union strategy in its relations with the gulf cooperation council (gcc) is needed now more than ever. first, the member countries of this organisation have a growing influence in the arab-muslim world and can play an important role in intercultural dialogue. in addition, i believe that concrete measures are needed to increase the union's visibility in this area and to promote mutual understanding, including through the establishment of cooperation in the media and audiovisual fields, in order to address the information gap on europe. finally, i believe that recent events in bahrain oblige us to anchor the union's relations with the gcc more firmly in respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. what we need at this point is to make sure that the calls for democratic reform from the protesters are heard in the context of a real political dialogue. the solution to the recent conflict in bahrain, for example, is to engage civil society, not to use violent repression.
the reporter. − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, increases the number of situations in which parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. air transport agreements now fall into this category as they concern an area to which the ordinary legislative procedure applies. before this agreement, aviation was covered by bilateral agreements with 19 of the member states of the european union - so i am referring to the agreements between the european union and canada. many of these agreements contained numerous restrictions and did not provide full access to the respective markets. in november 2002, the court of justice of the european union declared certain provisions of the bilateral agreements in question to be incompatible with community law. the negotiating mandate sets out the objective of creating an open aviation space between the european union and canada. this would create a single air transport market between the european union and canada, in which investment could flow freely and in which european and canadian airlines could provide air services without any restrictions, including on the domestic markets of the two parties. the eu-canada air transport agreement was initialled on 30 november 2008, received support at the eu-canada summit on 6 may 2009 and was signed on 17-18 december 2009. what the agreement contains: the agreement includes a gradual phasing-out of traffic rights, investment opportunities and large-scale cooperation on a range of issues including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. all european union airlines will be able to operate direct flights to canada from anywhere in europe. the agreement removes all restrictions on routes, prices or the number of weekly flights between canada and the european union. air carriers are free to enter into commercial agreements, such as code-sharing agreements, which are important for airlines serving a large number of destinations, and to set their fares in accordance with competition law. the agreement contains provisions on the phased opening of the market. the first stage applies when the foreign capital of the airlines is limited to 25% and when the negotiations on the agreement have been concluded. the second stage shall commence as soon as canada has taken the necessary measures to allow european investors to hold up to 49% of the voting shares of canadian air carriers. the third stage starts as soon as both parties introduce the possibility for investors to set up and operate new airlines in the other party's market. the fourth and final stage provides full operating rights between, within and beyond both markets, including between points in the territory of the other party - i am referring to cabotage. i would like to say a few things about this report: although the agreement is more ambitious than the one with the usa in terms of market access, it is less explicit in terms of recognising the importance of the social dimension. it is important that the commission use the agreement and in particular the possibility to address the joint committee to promote compliance with relevant international legislation on social rights, in particular labour standards included in the core conventions of the international labour organisation. given the important role played by the joint committee, including on politically sensitive issues as well as on environmental and labour standards, it is important that the commission ensures that parliament is fully informed and consulted on the work of the committee and also on future treaty amendments.
i want to congratulate adriana ticău on the ambitious agreement with canada. the agreement is an important step in the process of opening up the market and will at the same time lead to the emergence of new air routes and the development of new opportunities for investors on both sides of the atlantic, both in terms of the development of new investments and the emergence of new services for european and canadian citizens. i welcome the decision to allow airlines to operate without restrictions anywhere in europe and anywhere in canada, which will benefit consumers, airlines and, in general, the economies of both sides. the implementation of this agreement will lead to more services operated by one airline and new possibilities for the transport of goods, but this must also lead to greater concern with respect to the impact on climate change. in addition, the agreement will make the european and canadian markets safer by strengthening cooperation on compliance with certification and inspection procedures to ensure the highest level of safety for persons and goods.
the reporter. − the eu-canada air transport agreement can be described as the most ambitious air transport agreement between the eu and a major global partner. it will significantly improve the links between the two parties' markets and between people, while creating new opportunities for the aviation sector through the progressive liberalisation of foreign capital rules. in particular, the agreement is more ambitious and more specific than the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on traffic, ownership and control rights, even after the provisional application of the amending protocol - the second stage. according to a study initiated by the commission, an open agreement with canada would generate half a million additional passengers in the first year and within a few years, 3.5 million new passengers are expected to take advantage of the opportunities offered by such an agreement. the agreement could generate consumer benefits of at least eur 72 million through lower tariffs and lead to the creation of new jobs. madam president, we welcome the ambitious nature of this agreement. it should serve as an objective and model for other ongoing negotiations. in conclusion, i recommend that parliament approve the air transport agreement between the european union and canada.
in writing. − russia is an important market for moldovan winemakers, but lately the russian market is no longer safe for the export of wine products. in search of an alternative to the russian market, the european commission has proposed to increase the duty-free quotas from 100 000 hectolitres (hl) to 150 000 hl this year, from 120 000 hl to 180 000 hl in 2012 and to 240 000 hl from 2013. i voted in favour of this change in trade relations with the republic of moldova, to increase the volume of duty-free wine imports. this amendment to regulation (ec) no 55/2008 may be a solution for wine producers in the republic of moldova, so that they benefit from a safer market, given that russia imposed an embargo on moldovan wines in 2006 and 2010, sending several winemakers into bankruptcy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova, considering that it is a positive signal from the eu to this eastern partnership country, which recently stated that it hopes to be able to apply for eu membership in 2011. moldova has undertaken an ambitious set of political, economic and social reforms, the continuity of which should be encouraged. at the same time, the republic of moldova has been hit hard by the economic and financial crisis. in the last 4 years, 40% of its winegrowing enterprises have either ceased their activity or have gone into insolvency proceedings, and the companies still active in this key sector of its economy have accumulated losses. the increase of the duty-free tariff quota for wine and the extension of council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 until the end of 2015 would help this country, whose wine industry employs 300 000 people and whose agricultural sector accounts for 40% of its gross domestic product, without affecting the union economy. these measures would also leave sufficient time for the preparation of negotiations on the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area, a common objective of the eu and the republic of moldova.
in writing. − i will always declare that the republic of moldova has to be encouraged in its pro-european path. moldova is experiencing difficulties with its wine exports to some of its traditional markets, which threaten its economic recovery and the reform process that it is vigorously pursuing. the arguments given in vital moreira’s report are convincing, moldova needs council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 to be extended for a further three years, until 31 of december 2015. the request made by the republic of moldova in july 2010 is justified. moldova needs the european union to be a trustworthy partner. for these reasons, i endorse the report drafted by vital moreira on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament
in writing. - i welcome the vote in favour of this report. the republic of moldova needs the support of the european union at this time, when it is facing economic difficulties, as are most countries in the world, but also the difficulties inherent in a political transition. in view of the fact that moldova is facing a virtual boycott of the russian federation market for wine exports, the increase in the tariff quota exempted from customs duties for wine is a timely measure and, i hope, useful for the economy of this country.
in writing. − i decided to vote in favour of the report on generalised tariff preferences because it proposed both the immediate adaptation of the 'gsp' to the provisions of the lisbon treaty and a general revision of it in the future. this general review would aim at better involving beneficiary countries in their reform processes, providing technical assistance for the development of their institutional capacity and revising and harmonising the rules of origin.
in writing. − while far from perfect, the eu-us air transport agreement is a step forward, opening the way to future opportunities in terms of additional investment and market access, as well as enhanced safety and security measures. the air transport market is not fully open by both sides, as a result of the negotiated version of the agreement, but it has sufficient incentives to encourage reform. the us needs to change its domestic law to allow eu investors to become majority shareholders in us companies, generating reciprocal eu action. the eu-us joint committee has been given increased powers, which means it will be able to improve cooperation by promoting new initiatives. the new rules will reduce red tape, including through mutual recognition of regulatory decisions, and avoid unnecessary overlapping of resources. the recognition of the importance of the social dimension and the responsibility given to the joint committee to monitor the social effects of the agreement and to develop appropriate measures to address those effects as appropriate is an innovation introduced into the agreement in the second stage.
in writing. − the european union and canada have agreed to cooperate in the field of air transport with the aim of mitigating the impact of aviation on climate change. as regards passenger safety and security, the agreement envisages the mutual recognition of standards and the single security check. all european union airlines will be able to operate weekly flights between canada and the european union. this agreement will significantly improve the links between the two parties' markets and people, creating new opportunities for the aviation sector through the progressive liberalisation of foreign capital rules. i voted in favour of this report because it contains specific provisions on improving consumer interests.
in writing. − the european union and the gulf cooperation council have been negotiating a free trade agreement for almost twenty years. a strengthening of relations would be beneficial to both sides, especially as there are many possibilities for cooperation in the fields of education, scientific research, renewable energy. internally, the gcc countries have been undergoing a new process of political and social modernisation for several years, which should be supported and encouraged. i believe that we need a continuous dialogue between the european union and the gulf cooperation council to advance the promotion of human and minority rights and freedoms and the fight against all forms of discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of gender or religion. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − it is more important than ever for the european union to have a free trade agreement with the gulf countries. the negotiations for such an agreement have a negative record in terms of their duration and it is clear that in the 20 years since they began, the context has changed several times. the geopolitical climate in the gulf is different now, with global and regional implications. we are dealing with a process of liberalization and diversification of the economies of these countries. the gulf states are much more than just trading partners at this point, they are increasingly influential in the financial, diplomatic and other fields. and their influence will continue to grow. this brings a new perspective to the european union, which understands that cooperation between the two regions goes beyond the commercial framework. we have common interests in international security, the fight against terrorism, diplomatic mediation in the tense middle east, regional crisis management, intercultural dialogue and global economic governance. the eu has comparative advantages to be exploited with the new actors in the gulf region, provided there is political will at the highest level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mrs francesca balzani's report because, in accordance with that document, i believe that the 2012 budget of the european union should be drawn up in order to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. despite the current economic and financial crisis, it is important now to lay the foundations for solid future economic growth through investment in education, research and development, innovation and smes. these areas are at the heart of the eu's progress and competitiveness and need to be developed in the context of job creation and territorial and social cohesion. i stress that we must not reduce funding in these areas and it is essential to ensure that the available resources are managed as efficiently as possible. i also believe that the synergy between national budgetary priorities and the eu budget is fundamental. on this occasion, i welcome the efforts of president herman van rompuy, in the context of the european semester, to strengthen the discipline of the eu member states by promoting clear, measurable and realistic targets for each country. parliament is the most democratic european institution and the one that directly represents the interests of the citizens of the union. i therefore say that parliament should be involved in a much more active way in the exercise of the european semester.
in writing. − i would like to stress the importance of this report because the 2012 eu budget will help to revitalise the european economy. at the same time, the eu budget for next year must be the main instrument in revitalising the european economy, with a strong focus on employment, governance and growth. i believe that the 2012 budget must contribute to the implementation of the five objectives of the eu 2020 strategy: employment, innovation, research and development, climate change and energy, education and social inclusion. the eu budget is an investment budget and 2012 is the sixth year in the current 'financial perspective' (2007-2013), with projects progressing at a normal pace, leading to higher payment amounts as work is carried out. in my view, the increase in the level of payments in 2012 is foreseeable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the european union needs uniform administrative procedures with regard to migrant workers from third countries. the adoption of this act will have significant benefits: it will reduce public sector spending, discourage illegal immigration and ensure fair rights for third country nationals wishing to work in the european union. economic immigration is a necessity and must be encouraged in a controlled manner, given the demographic and economic challenges the union will face. let's not forget that the progress of countries like the united states, canada and australia is due to immigrants. they are a very dynamic social category, bringing new enthusiasm and fresh perspectives to the adoptive societies, increasing their competitiveness. it is essential that we ensure that they can work legally and pursue their dreams without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. i would like to express my hope that in the very near future, the problem of access to the labour market throughout the european union will be solved once and for all, also for the citizens of the member states romania and bulgaria.
in writing. − the adoption of the directive on the establishment of a single procedure for obtaining a work permit in the eu territory for third-country nationals will significantly simplify the system now decided by each member state. two separate procedures imply a longer time for processing applications and a higher administrative cost. through this one-stop-shop system, the administrative procedure will be simpler, cheaper and faster. moreover, the issuing of a single document will also facilitate the control of persons admitted to the territory of a member state and authorised to take up employment. this document will follow the format of the residence permit common to all member states. member states will also be able to decide to introduce a complementary document which will be of purely informative value. it will supplement the information provided by the single permit and thus facilitate checks. so we have to deal with advantages from all sides - immigrants, employers, national administrations. by establishing a single application procedure, this directive will simplify the often complex administrative procedures for the admission of economic migrants. this would contribute to an adequate response to the labour force challenges that the eu is facing and will continue to face.
in writing. − this report is a very important step for european union legislation on legal migration, as it creates a single application procedure for third country nationals. i welcome the fact that the text adopted today excludes any reference to the possibility for a member state to introduce additional documents for obtaining a third-country person's work permit. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum, in particular by ensuring that the union's external borders are not crossed. what is important about this report is that it sets out a set of common measures on the rights of workers from third countries, facilitating the legal migration that the european union needs. the requirement for member states to draw up correlation tables is welcome as it will allow us to check the correct transposition of the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that non-eu workers should enjoy the same rights as eu citizens in terms of working conditions, in accordance with the single permit directive. i would like to mention here in particular working time, leave and social security. this draft law aims to reduce red tape and simplify the application procedures for residence and work in an eu member state for both migrants and their employers through a combined residence and work permit. the proposal does not lay down the conditions for the admission of third-country nationals. member states retain the power to determine those conditions of admission and the number of migrants they wish to admit to their territory for the purpose of employment. the new rules will apply to non-eu citizens who already live legally in a member country or who wish to do so.
in writing. − economic immigration is a reality that we must organise, but also a necessity, if we are to respond to the demographic and economic challenges that the eu will face in the near future. immigration policy must be conceived as a tool to regulate our labour needs, which will contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the existence of a single procedure allowing for the issue of a single document authorising residence and access to the labour market constitutes a remarkable simplification of the admission regime. the directive will apply to any third-country national admitted to the territory of a member state for the purpose of employment, as well as to those who were initially admitted on other grounds but who have acquired the right to work in that member state under national or community law. each member state must lay down the conditions under which social security benefits are granted, as well as the amount of such benefits and the period for which they are granted. i regret that seasonal workers and workers posted within their undertakings are excluded from this directive, but i ask that the commission submit a proposal to this effect soon.
in writing. − according to the eu 2020 strategy, high-quality and environmentally sustainable production is one of the eu's competitive advantages. a high level of consumer protection guarantees high quality products and increases consumer confidence, thus fostering the effectiveness of the internal market. the commission's proposals for a new consumer rights directive are welcome as they aim to provide transparency for businesses, with a view to unlocking the potential of cross-border trade in the eu. the new consumer rights rules cover almost all types of sales, in-store, by telephone or online, and strengthen in particular the provisions on international sales, as proposed in the report drawn up by my colleague andreas schwab. unlike the four current consumer protection directives, i believe that the new legislation brings added value by providing what information the buyer must receive from the seller, the delivery conditions and the rules that apply when the risk is borne by the buyer, and the buyer's right to cancel or refuse purchases or the right to have a good repaired or replaced.
in writing. − the european agency for network and information security has a special role in supporting member states' cooperation efforts in this field at community level. information and communication technologies have become essential elements for the economy and society as a whole. they are vulnerable to threats that no longer respect national borders, are interconnected and interdependent with other infrastructures, and their security and resilience cannot be ensured by strictly national approaches. the report puts the emphasis on protecting europe against cyber attacks and disruption of information systems by increasing preparedness, security and resilience. i voted in favour of the report because it aims to develop a culture of cyber and data security for the benefit of citizens, businesses and public sector organisations in the european union. i believe that the mandate of the european cybersecurity agency is necessary to enable the european union, the member states and stakeholders to develop a preparedness and capacity to prevent, detect and respond more effectively to network and information security issues.
in writing. − i have chosen to vote on this report because i believe it is necessary to extend the mandate of the european agency for the security of information networks until 2013. this agency was established for a period of five years in march 2004 and then extended until march 2012. the main objective was to ensure effective security of the union's it networks. as we live in a world that has become increasingly dependent on the internet, we need to become more aware of the problem of internet security, cybercrime is not just virtual, it has a real impact on our lives. this issue is also on the nato agenda, and as a result an eu-us working group on cybercrime and security is being set up, which is a very important step in protecting the cyber infrastructure. i really think we still need the european cyber security agency.
in writing. − i was delighted to vote in favour of the extension of the mandate of the european network and information security agency (enisa) until september 2013. this agency was established in 2002 for an initial period of five years. enisa’s mandate is important as it was set by the eu to carry out very specific technical and scientific tasks in the field of information security. it is important to have such an agency in place in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market that concretely affects the daily lives of the citizens and business alike, using broadband, online banking, e-commerce and mobile phones. given the fact that attacks on information systems are constantly increasing, it is a critical time to have effective security measures in place in order to protect the integrity of europe’s information systems. a top-down eu approach is required to protect the information society sector. member states cannot do this sufficiently by themselves. it is estimated that the necessary funding for the extension of enisa’s current mandate would be eur 12.698 million in commitments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european parliament and the european union as a whole must show solidarity with the dramatic events in japan. the eu and its member states must be quick to provide the necessary humanitarian aid to help the japanese people recover from the effects of the earthquake. i also think it is very important that the very serious nuclear accident caused by this natural disaster be properly analysed so that the possibility of such events occurring in the future is avoided.
first of all, i want to congratulate madame guillaume on the excellent work she has done. the amendments to the current asylum procedures directive are a very important step towards establishing a common asylum system throughout the european union. the clarity of rules and procedures is the main added value of the new directive. it establishes transparent and secure rules on the competent authorities for the examination of applications for international protection and ensures that those applications are dealt with as quickly and efficiently as possible. it is essential to ensure that the protection offered throughout the european union is of the highest standard. at the same time, it is important to continue the process of harmonisation at national level to avoid discrepancies between the asylum systems currently in place across the european union. our final aim must remain the creation of a real common asylum system, as envisaged in the stockholm programme.
member of the commission. − mr president, every day, european businesses have to compete in an ever-changing and more competitive environment. the questions of dependability and timely delivery are as important as those of quality and price. exports of dual-use items create particular challenges in this regard, as such exports are subject to authorisation requirements. dual-use items are not niche goods. they are very much items legitimately used in a broad variety of industrial sectors – the space industry, the telecommunications industry, aviation, the chemical industry and many others. the goods are controlled because they could also potentially be used for military purposes. many member states make special export facilitations available to their exporters. these facilitations take the form of general licences and allow businesses in certain member states to export dual-use items with the minimum burden. following an analysis of these national facilitation measures, in 2008 the commission put forward its proposal aimed at extending these national facilitations to exporters throughout the union. the proposal for a new eu general export authorisation is designed to allow exporters in all member states to reap the benefits of simplified export procedures for certain dual-use items to certain destinations. in this way, participation in international exhibitions and fairs will become easier. exporting items after they have been repaired will also become simpler, and exports of telecommunications equipment and certain industrial chemicals will be simplified. on the other hand, member states will be able to concentrate their limited resources on transactions that actually do pose a risk. the commission regularly receives complaints from industry that certain exports are being prevented from entering one member state while identical transactions are given a green light in other member states. the proposal in front of you is a first step towards eliminating these inequalities within our single market. many other countries are taking similar steps to prioritise their work on export control, and we should not be left behind. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, and other members for their very constructive work on the proposal. the report presented by you and your committee is definitely a step in the right direction and is broadly consistent with the commission’s view.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would first like to congratulate my colleague on the work he has done on this report, which is so technical but has real implications for the safety of european citizens. the european union has been applying export control measures to dual-use items for almost 15 years. thus, through preventive measures such as export authorisation and customs registration requirements, the european union is ensuring that the proliferation of weapons, in particular weapons of mass destruction, is prevented. however, the eu's dual-use regime needs to be more transparent and democratized. it is necessary to create a secure system through which notifications of exports of products for both civilian and military use are collected, transmitted and stored in order to prevent the danger of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal that the coordination group on dual-use products should submit an annual report to the european parliament to facilitate the exercise of the latter's monitoring function. the european commission, for its part, is required to inform parliament on the implementation of the provision of the regulation establishing a community regime for the control of exports of dual-use items and technologies and to present an impact study of the proposed measures. last but not least, the representation of the european union in international export control regimes needs to be improved. unfortunately, the lists of controlled products are updated by international regimes and transposed into european union legislation without the european parliament being able to participate in this process. i therefore call for better control by parliament and for the legislative role of parliament to be facilitated, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, the topic of the report is doubly sensitive, both politically and economically. on the one hand, the eu wants to prevent dual-used goods to be used for military purposes and/or against people. on the other hand, it has to consider the economic interests of producers and users. the regulation is therefore inevitably bushy, having to cover for both existing intentional loopholes and anticipate for others in the future. moreover, while for some the regulation would appear too strong for others it would appear too weak, requiring constant revision. as a member of the committee on foreign affairs, i fully support the need for a more transparent and stricter regulation. i am therefore totally in favour of authorisation before export and not vice versa. particularly after lisbon, parliament can only help, and this is exactly what it is doing here and now. consequently, its role should be strengthened, not overlooked.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate my colleague brian simpson on this report on the european regulation establishing a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics on tourism. it is the member states which collect, compile, process and transmit harmonised statistics on tourism demand and supply. the majority of tourism enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises, and their strategic importance is not limited to their economic value, but must above all be recognised for the substantial job-creation potential they have. according to eurostat data for 2007, one in three european families could not afford to pay for one week of tourism a year. the economic crisis has increased the number of europeans at risk of poverty and, by implication, further reduced the number of those who can afford to take a week of tourism a year. i therefore believe that statistics on tourism are necessary and relevant for assessing the social dimension of this sector. social tourism increases the number of european tourists, helps to combat seasonality, reinforces the notion of european citizenship and promotes regional development. statistical data on social tourism would enable the commission and the member states to identify the specific needs of different social groups and to develop appropriate programmes. when compiling european statistics under this regulation, national statistical authorities should also provide data on the funds used for tourism by each member state, in particular for european funds. last but not least, i believe that european statistics on tourism should not be lacking in data on staff employed, their seasonality, vocational training and qualifications, and data on existing working conditions. without well-trained human resources, we cannot have good quality tourism.
i regret that there are no official statistics on rural tourism and agro-tourism, the only data available being estimates. in this context, i welcome the actions envisaged by the european commission to strengthen the socioeconomic knowledge base on tourism. i also stress the importance of the 'ict and tourism' platform proposed by the commission, but i believe that more intensive efforts are needed to equip rural areas with state-of-the-art it infrastructure, for example the provision of broadband internet. rural and agro-tourism accounts for over 500 000 accommodation units with over six million beds. these two sectors have had an average annual growth of 10-15% in recent years, thus making a key contribution to improving the quality of life in rural areas and diversifying the rural economy.
mr simpson's report is an important achievement for the statistical framework for tourism at european level. with its high potential, tourism thus contributes to employment and economic growth. improvements in the efficiency of data processing and the comparability of the statistics transmitted are necessary. to cope with the global tourism competition, romania has professionally built a strategy to stand out from other tourist destinations in the world. the strategy is based on the country brand of romania, a concept through which we present to potential tourists the authenticity of our traditions and fairy landscapes. i would stress that the development of tourism could also help to reduce inequalities in the regions of south-eastern europe. the emphasis must therefore be on diversity.
in writing. there is now a growing talk about increasing the eu's global competitiveness; tourism is one of the most important socio-economic activities, generating around 5% of the eu's gdp. the updating and optimisation of the legal framework for european statistics in this field is a pressing need for the development of sustainable, responsible and quality tourism. by achieving better quality statistical reporting, based on comparative and reliable data, we will benefit from a solid basis in the decision-making process for the development of community policies and financial instruments. i believe that we must do everything we can to remain the world's number one tourist destination, and to do that we must make the most of all possible funding opportunities. in this regard, i call on the european executive to develop and mobilise specific community support instruments and programmes for the development of european tourism, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
although it is the most widespread crime in the world, violence against women remains the least punished, whether in conflict zones or in democratic countries. there are areas of the world where violence against women comes in all forms: sex trafficking, forced marriage, murder, kidnapping for religious or criminal reasons, forced prostitution, coupled with domestic violence or violence by former partners. in addition, the age of girls subjected to violence is decreasing. i believe that at european level, member states should make further efforts to have comprehensive national statistics that better cover gender-based violence, and to improve data collection on it, with a view to finding the most appropriate solutions for punishing the perpetrators. it also welcomes the proposal to create an observatory on violence against women within the european institute for gender equality, in close cooperation with the european union agency for fundamental rights.
as a substitute rapporteur, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report and i shall only deal with two issues. i think it's time to move beyond the formal approach to this phenomenon, because the lack of statistics, the lack of coherent criminal law regulation in the member states and the lack of concern, other than declarative, about this subject confirms that it is indeed a subject that is formally addressed in the european union. that is why a directive is needed. the economic costs have not been analysed very seriously, unfortunately, in this report or in other approaches, because this phenomenon, which is now accentuated by the economic crisis, entails enormous economic costs for national budgets, amounting to hundreds of millions of euros. i think it's time to have a quantification of these costs and try to respond with not only economic but also legal means to combat this phenomenon.
as the report shows, the reduction of violence against women must be supported by a two-pronged effort, both at member state level and through measures and programmes managed directly by the european commission. i think it is extremely important that the daphne programme be continued and that the countries facing this kind of violence be encouraged to participate in the current economic difficulties. many people today are struggling with mental health issues that sometimes lead to violence. it is essential to train staff in the police authorities of the european union as a basis for having fair investigations with a good understanding of the phenomenon and the effects of violence on women. this is also supported in the context of the stockholm programme. in conclusion, the political effort needs to be matched by financial support, and the daphne programme can be the right framework.
in writing. almost a quarter of women in europe have suffered at least one act of physical violence and over a tenth have been victims of sexual violence. the economic crisis has contributed, through its social consequences, to worsen the situation, with poverty and lack of education being factors that favour gender-based violence. i therefore consider that coordinated measures against the cases, as well as legislative harmonisation and closer judicial cooperation between member states, are necessary in order to make investigations more efficient. information and awareness campaigns, the creation of victim reception centres, the establishment of a single european telephone number for immediate assistance and support for highly vulnerable groups such as migrant and asylum-seeking women are some of the actions that states and eu institutions have a duty to take as a matter of urgency to stop violence against women.
member of the commission. − madam president, some honourable members may be getting tired of me but i think this joint debate on migration flows is very timely. this will be both a general discussion of the role and scope of eu foreign policy, as outlined in mr provera’s report, and an opportunity for me to inform you about how the eu is responding to the crisis in the southern mediterranean. let me start by thanking mr provera for his excellent report which i read with great interest. it is a very timely subject for discussion, as is the role that eu foreign policy should play with regard to the very complex and multifaceted nature of migration. let me start by outlining some elements of the eu response to the crisis in the southern mediterranean and then move to the more general role of eu foreign policy. as you all know, we are faced with a situation in the southern mediterranean that has become very critical in recent weeks with regard to the migration flows involved. more than 400 000 people have been displaced since the outbreak of the changes in northern africa and in libya. most of these people are third-country nationals who have come to tunisia or to egypt. a majority of them have been repatriated to their countries but a few thousand are still there and i will come back to them in a little while. around 20 000 migrants, mainly from tunisia and, to a lesser extent from other african countries, have managed to enter the european union irregularly, reaching the shores of lampedusa and malta. both of these islands are therefore under strong migratory pressure. the european union has already responded to these serious, but different, challenges in an effective and rapid manner, taking three concrete actions. firstly, the commission has mobilised eur 30 million to manage the humanitarian emergency generated by the sudden inflows of migrants and refugees in the countries neighbouring libya. with the assistance of funds provided on a bilateral basis by the member states and other international donors, it has been possible to offer temporary shelter to migrants and refugees, to meet their basic needs and to return them to their respective countries of origin. secondly, we have reacted to the irregular and mixed flows across the mediterranean sea. frontex, with the assistance of several member states, launched joint operation hermes, aimed at assisting italy in controlling vessels that carry migrants and refugees. what is more, europol has deployed a team of experts to italy, with the aim of helping the law enforcement authorities to identify possible criminal networks involved in trafficking. thirdly, the commission has tried to ensure that, in the very short term, the member states exposed to the growing flows of refugees and irregular migrants could cope with the financial consequences of this displacement. we have rapidly identified eur 25 million which could be mobilised under the external borders fund and european refugee fund if and when specific requests are made by the member states. only one request has been made so far but we are ready to consider further urgent requests. i believe that this first response has been comprehensive; it is clear, however, that we need to do more. we need to set up a more structured, sustainable plan able to cover the various dimensions of this phenomenon, based on solidarity between member states and in full respect of the european union’s international obligations. i have visited egypt with the hungarian minister of foreign affairs, mr martonyi, and tunisia with my colleague commissioner füle, who is responsible for neighbourhood policy. this was partly in response to the conclusions of the european council, which asked the commission to liaise very actively with these two countries. in the run-up to our june jha council, i intend to propose a package of proposals to the commission in may that will address the eu approach in the area of migration, mobility and security with the southern mediterranean countries. several measures need to be taken in the short term. on the continuous and possible increase of flows of refugees coming from the libyan territory, the following actions will be considered: an adequate level of funds needs to remain available to support the provision of humanitarian assistance. in this context, funds will have to be earmarked to meet the basic needs of the refugees, to facilitate their return to their countries of origin, when appropriate, and to support their successful social and professional reintegration back home. moreover, an increasing number of refugees fleeing libya are third-country nationals who were residing in libya as refugees or asylum seekers. these people, a few thousand, cannot be returned to their countries of origin. resettlement needs to be considered. the commission is ready to facilitate this process and calls upon the member states to take responsibility and to engage in such resettlement efforts. there will be financial support for this, from the european refugee fund in particular. in this context, it is imperative that the council and the european parliament make an effort to rapidly achieve an agreement on the european resettlement programme. all three institutions are in agreement on the political aim of this; we must find a way out of this institutional deadlock. it is also urgent to develop a regional protection programme encompassing egypt, libya and tunisia. under the thematic programme for cooperation with third countries, the commission has plans to allocate eur 3.6 million to support such a programme. the deployment of easo teams to the member states affected by these flows will also be considered, with a view to helping the authorities screen the asylum seekers. finally, in the event of a massive influx of displaced persons and if the conditions foreseen in the directive are met, the commission would be ready to consider making use of the mechanisms foreseen under the 2001 temporary protection directive so as to provide immediate protection for these people on the territory of other eu member states. the intention would be to give breathing space to the national asylum systems and to promote voluntary solidarity measures between member states. with regard to the continuous inflows of irregular migrants coming from the southern mediterranean, which could increase, the commission believes that joint operation hermes, coordinated by frontex, should receive additional resources from member states. frontex will stand ready to provide logistical and financial support to assist the member states concerned, to organise return flights and to deploy rapid border intervention teams if they wish. it is essential that the competences of frontex are strengthened rapidly and more effective tools are put at its disposal. the amended regulation establishing the frontex agency should be adopted by the council and the european parliament as soon as possible. specific projects are also being prepared by eu services and will shortly be launched, in partnership with the countries concerned, starting with tunisia and egypt. the aim is to enhance their capacity to control their borders – in cooperation with the relevant authorities – to fight against criminal organisations promoting the smuggling of migrants and people trafficking, to facilitate readmission and social and professional reintegration and to identify and register migrants entering the territory and treat them in accordance with international standards by offering asylum to those in need of international protection. these measures represent the immediate answer to the situation. however, we also need implement long-term, sustainable programmes. with my partners in tunisia and egypt we discussed bringing in working arrangements on a variety of issues covered under the mobility partnership. this could take the form of a new tailor-made eu approach, considering each country on its own merits, and taking into account the eu’s overall foreign policy with a given country. partnerships could cover everything from visa facilitation, under certain conditions and for specific categories, labour migration, preventing irregular migrant flows, setting up asylum systems, readmission, law enforcement, return, etc. we agreed with the two countries’ interior ministers to set up a working arrangement and to start identifying what we can do together. i am convinced that this coherent eu foreign policy approach will help to set up a long-term system to address migration flows and this brings me to mr provera’s report. protracted, long-standing conflicts and humanitarian crises in regions, such as the one we are talking about, are important factors fuelling south-south migration and migration towards the eu. our main global challenges, such as migration, fully underline the importance of developing a comprehensive approach linking security, stability, crisis management and development. as the report suggests, such an approach must be based on a strong human rights approach, notably with regard to migrants’ rights. special attention must be given to the situation of vulnerable groups. we share the view that it is crucial to put in place more long-term, sustainable cooperation programmes to address migration, mobility and security, in combination with the promotion of democracy, the rule of law and good governance with third countries. this approach should be tailor-made, as i have described, looking at each country on its individual merits. this comprehensive approach fits in with other policy processes such as the nexus between security and development, which is mentioned in both the european security strategy and the european consensus on development. we have to mobilise the full range of policies and instruments at our disposal with regard to poverty eradication, early-warning systems and preventive diplomacy, humanitarian aid, crisis response actions, including sanctions, crisis management missions and post-conflict reconstruction and peace building. this report is therefore very timely, as the eu currently has to deal with a crisis. but it also represents a possibility to start something new, the possibility to support the fantastic new democratic forces that are emerging: there is a great willingness to reform countries, especially in tunisia but also in egypt. the global approach to migration, as an external dimension of the eu’s migration policy, is to be based on a genuine partnership with third countries. this is mentioned in the stockholm programme and the stockholm action plan and we will provide further initiatives in the global approach to migration presented this autumn. the aim is to define the objectives of the approach more clearly and in more strategic terms. it will propose priorities, principles and concrete measures but will also look more closely at the link between migration and development and between migration and climate change, for instance. i know that you are all willing to discuss different elements of this. it is a complex and very difficult issue which demands a great deal of time and effort to assess properly. it is also very event-driven and it changes almost by the hour. so far the commission has tried to be constructive and to address this in a very comprehensive and inclusive way. i look forward to taking your questions.
reporting for an opinion of the committee on development. − i would first like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation we have had in preparing this report. in connection with the particular subject we are discussing today, the mediterranean exodus is not just a problem of the countries in the region, but the responsibility of the entire european union to address this humanitarian emergency. it's a concrete situation, which we didn't anticipate when this report was conceived. in deve's view, the humanitarian situation and helping refugees must be a priority. but we cannot accept the radical populist solutions that promised the citizens of lampedusa that they would be rid of the immigrants in 60 hours. evacuations to the mainland followed, and after the targeted regions refused to host the camps, repatriation was introduced. the refusal of france and germany to take in some of the refugees and the threat of the italian minister of the interior to grant temporary residence permits, which would allow thousands of immigrants to move around the european union, are both unacceptable. these are not constructive and inclusive responses, as member states have committed themselves to. neither selfishness nor solidarity by force belong to the values on which the european union is built, and that is why i believe we must insist as firmly as possible on dialogue and cooperation in order to identify common solutions to this serious problem.
today's debate on the provera report is, i think, welcome in the light of recent events in the mediterranean and north africa. i would like to stress first of all that a european approach is needed to manage the migratory flows triggered by the revolutionary wave in the arab world, in the spirit of solidarity imposed by article 80 of the treaty of lisbon. on the other hand, i should like to congratulate mr provera on his report, which stresses the need to address, in a coherent way, the root causes of instability at the origin of migratory flows. news reports are filled with events that remind us of the urgency of action. in the aftermath of the post-election conflict in côte d'ivoire, for example, hundreds of thousands of ivorian people sought refuge in neighbouring countries, 94,000 of them in liberia alone, which is also threatened by instability. to get out of this spiral of instability and migration, i think we must first insist on the preventive dimension, and i am thinking here, first and foremost, of conflict prevention. we also need to consider the promotion of democracy and human rights, as well as, of course, the sustainable improvement of the economic situation. on the other hand, i believe we need to make better use of the tools we have in the global approach to migration to encourage synergies between migration and development. the issue of migration must be systematically included in the dialogue with europe's partners. efforts to support development projects in countries of origin and transit that improve living conditions and their capacity to manage migration flows must also be stepped up.
in his memoir, "how stalinism was born", stalin's former secretary, boris bajanov, recounts a scene in the kremlin in december 1923. in a conversation with his collaborators, the georgian killer said something that would make history. it's not who or how you vote in the party that's important, it's who counts the votes that's of tremendous importance. so it should not surprise us that, for example, these days nursultan nazarbaev was re-elected in kazakhstan by over 95%. so in romania, where absolutely all elections are rigged. this masquerade that apes democracy is directed by the indigenous mafia, under the direct protection of the us embassy in romania, which determines what is best for the romanian people. and the wikileaks cables demonstrate that romania has unfortunately become a fourth-rate colony of the cia, which demonizes stalin but uses his methods. shame on you!
this debate is taking place at a critical moment for the future of the european neighbourhood policy. in this context, i believe that the incidents italy has faced in lampedusa indicate the need to develop a community migration policy focused on the following areas: first, the eu should focus on the causes of migration flows. i am referring to the precarious economic situation and the unstable political climate in the countries of origin. by creating jobs and increasing investment in these countries, the union would encourage citizens to become involved in their own community. secondly, i think it is necessary that the rights of migrants be protected. in particular, frontex is responsible for implementing the geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and other relevant international treaties.
this year, the separatist demonstrations by hungarian extremists in transylvania on the occasion of hungary's national day were marked by a worrying radicalism, especially because of the support and statements of the top representatives of the hungarian state and one of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. the hungarian holiday of march 15th threatens, year after year, the good understanding between romanians and hungarians. in this context, provocative gestures, such as the recent symbolic hanging by a hungarian extremist of the hero of the romanian ardennes struggle for national rights in 1848, only threaten peaceful coexistence. i strongly condemn these extremist demonstrations, i call on the romanian authorities to move from political complicity to legal measures, and i call on the european forums to act to stop the escalation of ethnic hatred and territorial separatism in a region where the wounds of the past have a unique chance to be closed under the banner of european values.
in romania, there's a law that says teachers should have higher salaries, because they're very low, a law that's passed and voted in the national parliament, but it's not being applied at all. the teachers have won their rights in court through final court decisions, but the government does not want to enforce this law. so he comes up with a new law, which caps teachers' salaries. it's not just a danger to democracy and it's not just an unhealthy way for the democratic institutions of a state to function, it's more than that. the objectives of the europe 2020 agenda are at stake. we all know that to get out of the crisis sustainably, we need education, we need skills. to have a knowledge and research-based economy, we need highly trained young people, we need highly paid teachers and we need healthy and effective education.
as a result of incompetent governance and the disastrous policy of economic dismemberment carried out by the basescu-boc regime, romania's health system, especially that of health insurance, has reached the limit of subsistence. both the medical staff who work in this system and the patients who should be its beneficiaries have been treated below the bounds of decency and human dignity. solutions to improve and redress this situation exist, but they are not taken into account by the current governments. a collaboration between the trade unions of family doctors and the health committee of the chamber of deputies has recently been established, in the hope of obtaining better results in future discussions with the ministry of health and the national health insurance house. i wanted to bring this situation to the attention of the european parliament because if these initiatives supported by the romanian parliament also fail, this will constitute yet another test in the case of abuses of power in romania, where the democratic principle of the separation of powers in the state has ceased to exist.
in europe, cultural diversity is a value that we all need to work to preserve. however, this was not always the case. our continent is home to many unique cultures that are in danger of disappearing. the hungarian mongols of moldavia, who live in romania, are also an endangered community. council of europe recommendation 1521/2001 calls for the rescue of this minority culture of the cangô, providing for concrete steps. although progress has been made in this area over the last decade as a result of the recommendation, the situation is far from satisfactory. the council of europe does not have european law or the accountability mechanism to enforce it and ensure the effective functioning of the european union. the council of europe is ahead of the eu on many issues of ensuring a high level of human rights, but its recommendations and conventions cannot achieve the desired effect. taking seriously the principle of respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, which is enshrined in article 3 of the eu treaty, the european union will do its utmost to ensure that this principle is applied in concrete cases. let's start with the moldovan hungarian culture.
the main concern of rural women is the lack of jobs. the lack of these means reduced income for older people and therefore increased risk of poverty. the education of children and health services in rural areas are also essential for the existence of these communities. the precariousness of basic infrastructure in rural areas reduces the interest of entrepreneurs in developing farms and production units in these areas. i urge member states to use the structural funds to address the lack of basic infrastructure in rural areas and to implement policies to improve access to public infrastructure for all. i urge the commission and the member states to honour their commitment to improve broadband infrastructure in rural areas as a way of boosting their competitiveness. rural tourism based on family tourism units creates jobs, allows the combination of family obligations with work and encourages the rural population to remain in the rural environment.
i personally think that the most important parts of the report are those which concern rural living conditions, and in this connection i would like to make a few remarks. firstly, the important role played by the european agricultural fund for rural development in modernising the countryside - this fund must also be financed at a sufficient level in the future common agricultural policy to reduce the gap between rural and urban areas. secondly, i believe that we must start, especially in the new member states, with the modernisation of the basic physical infrastructure. it must remain a component of the eafrd. the last comment relates to the ageing of the rural population, and here i would stress the importance of programmes designed to provide for the early retirement of farmers and agricultural workers on the one hand and the establishment of young farmers on the other.
i would like to congratulate mrs jeggle on her approach to this report. i believe it is vital to recognise the significant role of women in agriculture, both in primary production and in diversifying economic activities on farms and in rural areas. i believe we need to draw attention to the high level of poverty and exclusion affecting rural women, emphasising the need for effective measures to guarantee equal opportunities for women in agriculture as a main objective of the common agricultural policy. in this context, improving the quality of life of women living in rural areas by ensuring their easiest access to education and training, lifelong learning, effective local public health services, as well as infrastructure and services for children and families is vital. i would stress that improving equal opportunities for women in rural areas requires greater promotion of their role, both in agriculture and in other areas of economic activity, including in protecting the multifunctional nature of agriculture.
in writing. i come from romania, where a high percentage of the population lives in rural areas. that is why i am aware that it is absolutely necessary to pay more attention to the status of women in these areas, taking into account the specific opportunities and challenges. as a member of the committees on culture and education and regional development, i want to stress the need to ensure a vocational training system that provides women with adequate training, both as producers and as entrepreneurs, all the more so as we can thereby achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this can also be achieved by improving farmers' access to broadband internet services. supporting women's entrepreneurship is able to provide them with a stable livelihood by giving them economic independence. we will thus eliminate the effects of social exclusion and poverty, which disproportionately affect women. it is also in this context that we are talking about the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy, in which we will have to take greater account of the role and needs of women in rural areas. increasing the attractiveness of rural areas and farming remains a challenge, and can offer rural women real opportunities for economic and personal development.
the reporter. − the accession treaties of three member states, slovakia, bulgaria and lithuania, included the requirement to decommission a number of nuclear reactors that no longer met safety requirements and could not be cost-effectively upgraded. the financial assistance provided by the european union was not intended to cover the full cost of decommissioning. assistance was intended for measures for decommissioning, maintenance and after-shutdown supervision, waste treatment, storage and decontamination of waste and spent fuel and dismantling works, in the energy field (for replacing the production capacity of closed units, increasing the security of energy supply and energy efficiency and other measures contributing to the necessary restructuring and modernisation of the energy infrastructure) and in terms of social consequences (for supporting the staff of the plant in maintaining a high level of safety after shutdown and retraining staff for tasks in the decommissioning process). the fact that the financial assistance was set without a ceiling, a situation which persisted after the development of decommissioning plans and strategies, made further financial supplements possible. the european union has funded this activity with large sums of money, some €2.8 billion since 1999. the report calls for the following to be clarified in future evaluations by the european commission and the european court of auditors: whether the funds allocated by the european union have been used to ensure the security of the decommissioning activity; whether the decommissioning ensures the safe storage of nuclear waste; whether there has been adequate coordination between the three existing programmes, thus making effective use of the experience gained and following the pattern of previously prepared and financed projects to generate cost savings; whether current plans and strategies are complete or whether there is still scope to add new activities and subsequently additional funds; whether additional amounts still need to be allocated to energy projects or whether it is necessary to focus more on decommissioning projects and whether the financing of these activities from community funds is necessary.
there are 143 nuclear power plants in the european union and, according to data published by the energy dg in march 2010, nuclear energy accounts for approximately 28% of the eu's energy mix. the events in japan have raised the alarm about the risks associated with nuclear power plants. early closure and decommissioning of nuclear facilities represents a major financial and economic burden and therefore the european union can provide financial assistance to the member states concerned - i am referring to lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. the lack of funding for decommissioning measures will delay this process, which would pose a threat to the environment and human health. we urge the national competent bodies to finalise the detailed decommissioning plans and the commission to report on this process, to clearly describe the scope of eu funding in these cases and to provide a detailed long-term financial planning of decommissioning projects.
in accordance with articles 206 and 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, foreign direct investment is an exclusive competence of the european union. the commission has already drawn up a list of countries which will become privileged partners for the negotiation of the first investment agreements: canada, china, india, mercosur, russia and singapore. we call on the commission, parliament and the member states to develop a coherent and integrated investment policy that promotes high-quality investment and makes a positive contribution to economic progress and sustainable development worldwide. we call for the future policy of the european union to promote sustainable investment, which respects the environment and encourages good working conditions in the enterprises targeted by the investment. we call on the commission to ensure reciprocity when negotiating market access with its main trading partners in developed countries and major emerging economies. madam president, as rapporteur for the air transport agreements between the european union and third countries such as canada and brazil, i would like to ask the rapporteur and the commissioner how the link between progressive market access and airlines and these international investment agreements will be ensured.
the european council took a significant step towards the creation of the european stability mechanism by adopting the decision amending the treaty on the functioning of the union. the future mechanism will ensure a stable and coherent response in the event of destabilising situations in the euro area. it's very good that there is such a mechanism. but it is preferable to avoid such situations, which means applying economic governance provisions consistently and disciplinedly. all member states must contribute to stability, whether they are part of the euro area or not yet. that is why the creation of the euro plus pact, to which countries outside the euro area, including romania, have joined, is an extremely positive thing. the implementation of the european semester will ensure the coordination of european economic policy by improving competitiveness, reducing red tape, promoting education and stimulating the workforce. these priorities, however, need to be translated very quickly into concrete measures at national level. the success of the new european structural reforms is closely linked to the strengthening of the single market. the union needs a strategy that contributes to job creation and covers shortcomings in the union's labour market. the commission's intention to present the single market act, which should be adopted by the end of 2012, is welcome. i regret, however, that among the priority measures to give a new impetus to the single market and competitiveness, the need for the free movement of all european workers is not mentioned, with the emphasis being placed on the free movement of services.
in writing. through the euro plus pact and the european stability mechanism, member states will receive the financial assistance they need in exchange for closer coordination of their economic policies. the two proposals thus represent a positive tandem, especially when we refer to the proposal for coordination of taxation policies - a necessary reform in a union of states aiming to share the same currency. the european stability mechanism, with its 500 billion euro intervention capacity, also functions as a european monetary fund, able to borrow money and buy bonds directly from governments, while acting against financial speculation. however, some of the covenant's proposals are not viable. fiscal austerity and extreme flexibility in the labour market will delay economic growth, keep unemployment high and create instability in the labour force. i believe that gradual fiscal consolidation and the safeguarding of the european social model are needed to lay the foundations for solid economic growth.
in writing. − the european union must cope with migratory flows generated by wars and armed conflicts, ethnic tensions, human rights violations and natural disasters in third countries. the union must respond appropriately to this challenge by taking preventive measures, using the most appropriate foreign policy instruments to address directly the causes of instability, so that emigration becomes a possibility rather than a desperate necessity. a european policy on migration regulation should combine development cooperation measures with a broader political vision, including bilateral agreements on security and regional cooperation with countries of origin and transit, protection of human rights and democratisation. european foreign policy should complement and generate synergies with immigration policy, focusing on the causes of instability and structural problems in countries of origin. the establishment of a continuous dialogue with transit countries should also be addressed with a view to regulating migration flows and the uniform application of international human rights rules on immigration.
in writing. − having focused on principles in previous conferences, i express my hope that the fourth un conference in istanbul will be results-oriented, formulating clear indicators to halve the number of least developed countries by 2020. of the 51 least developed countries, where 78 percent of the population live on less than $1.25 a day, only three have exceeded that threshold in recent years. the situation is worrying, as these countries are the most vulnerable to shocks such as financial and food crises, climate change, and also face extreme poverty, lack of infrastructure and rising unemployment. this reality shows that, unfortunately, the international community has not fulfilled its commitments in the brussels programme of action. i hope that at the conference, where i will be representing the socialist group, we will focus on policy coherence for development and on ways of implementing innovative financing mechanisms to help these countries more effectively, which must be encouraged to implement appropriate policies.
in writing. − respect for the principle of gender equality is a key requirement of the europe 2020 strategy and should be promoted with a view to increasing the number of women in economic and social activities and equal rights for women and men in the agricultural sector in particular. i think it is important to highlight the role that women play in farming and in rural areas. support policies therefore need to reflect more than ever the important role, needs and situation of rural women. i encourage member states to create incentives in rural areas to promote women as producers or entrepreneurs, their participation in the political process, including representation on the governing boards of institutions, to support gender equality. i voted in favour of this report which contributes to the fight against social exclusion in rural areas. rural development policies have the essential mission of ensuring equal rights between women and men, equivalent living conditions in all regions, avoiding unilateral development of highly populated urban areas, so that villages are no longer abandoned en masse.
in writing. − the problem of rural women is a current and real one for the union. however, it is very acute and urgent for some new member states, such as romania, where the share of rural areas is very high, with an extremely low employment rate. we need a sound and financially supported approach in the future cap to achieve results in creating attractive living conditions for women and men in these areas. i agree with the idea put forward by mrs jeggle of a european network of rural women, also supported as a result of the measures under the second pillar of the cap, but also with the idea that the cap reform should give priority to rural women's access to services and assistance, in line with the needs of each member state.
in writing. − given that the principle of gender equality is promoted by european legislation and is one of the fundamental requirements of the european 2020 strategy, i consider it appropriate to include this aspect in the future common agricultural policy, including through the use of new instruments to promote this principle. i believe that the future common agricultural policy must be a fair policy, including for women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the jeggle report, which i appreciate as a member elected in romania, where there are a large number of people involved in agricultural activities. i would, however, like to say that i think the report should have been more firm on the rural living conditions. we need a strongly funded european agricultural fund for rural development to help bridge the gap between rural and urban areas. the compulsory component of this fund should remain investments in upgrading basic physical infrastructure. further references to the ageing of the rural population and the importance of early retirement schemes for farmers and the establishment of young farmers would also have been useful.
in writing. − women are very important for the agricultural sector and the rural world and their presence there is increasingly obvious. it is therefore important to highlight the role that women play in farm businesses and in rural areas, taking particular account of its multifunctional nature. if we want to keep women of all generations living in the countryside or encourage them to move there, then support policies must reflect their needs and circumstances more strongly than has been the case in the past. in rural areas, as elsewhere, women expect to be able to realise their own plans for their lives, to be economically independent and to meet family challenges. the european commission should increase the budgetary allocations for the esf in order to provide adequate resources for measures to improve education and training for improving labour market access and combating unemployment and measures and activities under the social inclusion strategy and the eu 2020 flagship initiative on combating poverty and social exclusion in favour of disadvantaged and vulnerable persons, especially women, including those confronted with precarious and insecure contracts. the member states should contribute in particular to a definite improvement of the social situation of women in agriculture in europe.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to thank mrs jeggle for this excellent report, which highlights the extremely important role of women in agriculture. i know that many of us want women of all ages to stay in the countryside or think that we need to encourage them to move here, to ensure the future of rural areas and agriculture in europe. but to facilitate this, we need to improve women's access to education and training in agriculture and allow them better access to direct payments and on the other hand ensure their access to decent pensions and social security. for example, in romania, some rural women do not receive farmer's pensions and have a very difficult time starting a business in agriculture. it is therefore very important that we pay increased attention to women working in family or subsistence farms and guarantee them both a decent living and adequate pensions.
in writing. - i voted for mr marinescu's report because i believe that a lack of funding for decommissioning measures will delay the process of financial assistance for the three member states concerned: lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. this would pose a threat to the environment and to human health. future evaluations by the european commission and the european court of auditors should clarify issues such as: the allocation and use of funds by the eu to ensure the safety of decommissioning, the provision of safe nuclear waste storage and the existence of coordination between the three existing programmes. in this respect, the experience gained should be used effectively and the model of previously prepared and financed projects should be followed in order to generate cost savings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by our colleague on the granting of financial assistance requested by lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria for the closure of nuclear power stations. it is clear that if we do not allocate the right resources, we can face extremely serious consequences for the environment and human health. of course, the resources allocated must be managed fairly and transparently. it is serious that we do not have a single eu coordination and expertise team for all three projects to oversee the development of a clear plan and timetable, the correct use of the amounts already allocated and what is needed to complete the closures safely.
in writing. − compliance with nuclear safety standards and the protection of the population against nuclear risk is a particularly important element, which justifies the eu funding of the three member states for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants that could no longer be upgraded to meet the highest safety standards. however, i fully support the view expressed in this resolution, as i believe that there is a need to monitor how the funds are spent to ensure that they are effectively contributing to ensuring the safety of the decommissioning process. unfortunately, there was a lack of clarity in the strategies, which also led to the lack of ceilings for the financing of decommissioning activities by the european union. in future, such a way of working should be avoided, and a comprehensive plan covering all actions to be funded is needed. transparency on how this money is spent is essential to guaranteeing the effectiveness of funding and ultimately the responsible spending of european taxpayers' money.
in writing. − the european union is concerned about the possible safety consequences of decommissioning old nuclear power plants in the new member states and the possible poor management of the radioactive waste they generate. operations are usually very expensive; the correct and as transparent as possible management of the eu's financial resources and adequate external oversight are therefore essential to ensure fair competition in the energy market. in parallel, the union should continuously promote the development of alternative energy resources with low emissions and competitiveness in order to remedy the negative economic and social consequences of the decommissioning of old nuclear power plants.
in writing. − undoubtedly, it is in the interest of the safety and health of all european citizens that the eu and its member states give the highest priority to decommissioning the nuclear power stations concerned in the new member states. but equal attention should be given to eliminating the dangers in the immediate vicinity of the european union, and here i draw attention to the urgent need to identify and mobilise the funds needed to build a new massive sarcophagus over the reactor of the chernobyl power station which exploded in 1986.
in writing. - i voted for this report because export controls on dual-use items are a key factor in the non-proliferation of weapons, including weapons of mass destruction. given the high volume of cross-border trade in the european union, the implementation of eu export controls on dual-use items is based on preventive measures such as the imposition of export authorisation requirements and customs registration procedures. export controls have a strong impact on eu trade policy, as they can affect over 10% of total eu exports.
in writing. − i voted for the proposal to amend the regulation because i believe that the new points introduced will lead to greater transparency and democratisation of the eu regime for dual-use goods. the european parliament will thus be able to be involved in updating the lists for products subject to control by international regimes. currently, these lists are almost automatically transposed into eu law, without parliament having a say. the dual-use coordination group is also called upon to submit an annual report to parliament so that the latter is fully informed of developments in the control of products and technologies with both civil and military uses.
in writing. - the official figures on violence against women are much lower than the sad reality in each member state. officially, between 2004 and 2009, there were about 60 000 cases of domestic violence, of which almost 800 resulted in the death of the victim. of all the abused women, 70% tolerate abuse silently and only 30% decide to report it to the police. in this context, i support the provision and facilitation of access to free legal aid for victims of violence against women and i believe that the declaration of a european year to combat violence against women has the potential to raise awareness among europeans of this problem in the daily lives of a considerable number of women in the european union. i voted in favour of this report because i support the importance of a european charter providing for a minimum of support services for victims of violence against women, in order to reduce this phenomenon in all member states.
in writing. - i voted for this report because violence against women is a problem both at international and european level. this report presents a package of measures that are absolutely necessary to guarantee a decent life for women in europe. comprehensive and coherent legal protection of women's integrity is of paramount importance. it is imperative that legislation at eu level takes into account the extreme vulnerability of women and children who face violence in the family. it is not enough to introduce or pass a series of laws to protect women; prosecution must become more effective. a key area where resources could be multiplied is the training of police authorities in europe. the police are the first law enforcement agency to contact women who have been victims of violence. one practical measure that can be taken is the establishment of a gender-based violence hotline in the member states. female victims of violence could call this number for immediate assistance.
in writing. − the european parliament has in the past adopted a resolution on violence against women in which it stressed the need for a comprehensive legislative act to combat all forms of violence against women. the commission has taken some important decisions which are principally aimed at this objective, in particular by drawing up a new action plan for gender equality, in which it underlines that gender-based violence is one of the main issues to be addressed. the commission also announced that it would present a proposal for a strategic plan to combat gender-based violence in 2011. gender-based violence causes serious harm to people's physical and mental health. this entails high costs for society, generating social problems and costs for the legal and health systems. the costs to society of gender-based violence are estimated on the basis of medical care costs, legal costs and social services costs. gender-based violence is also a serious problem from the point of view of democracy. the very fact that women are subject to violence restricts their opportunities to participate in social and professional life.
in writing. - as a liberal mep i can only support this report, as the member states need a new strategy to combat violence against women, which is a serious threat to women's physical and mental integrity, which is a fundamental right. violence against women has a negative impact on both the victims and the children who grow up in such an environment unsuitable for their human development. gender equality is one of the eu's core values, which is of particular importance to the liberal family. a modern society, based on equality of rights and equality before the law, cannot tolerate such phenomena, even when they have cultural or religious motivations. i believe that the eu and the member states must use all the tools at their disposal to combat gender-based violence. i support the idea of a directive providing for criminal sanctions for perpetrators of violence against women and i believe that this must be accompanied by the creation of a sufficient number of victim support centres and adequate training for those who work with them, such as police officers, judges, doctors, etc.
in writing. − i believe that at european level, member states should make further efforts to produce more comprehensive national statistics, covering more violence against women in all its forms - rape, sex trafficking, forced marriage, death, forced prostitution, and violence in the family or by former partners - and to improve data collection on this, with a view to finding the most appropriate solutions for punishing the perpetrators.
in writing. − despite the fact that violence against women has been a topic of debate over several decades, the international community has not managed to put an end to this extremely destructive form of criminality. it is a complex problem which involves protecting the integrity of individual victims of crime but also protecting important common social interests, such as freedom and democracy. shelters for women must be provided at national level in order to enable women and children to live a self-determined life free of violence and poverty. such shelters should offer specialised services, medical treatment, legal aid, psychosocial and therapeutic counselling, legal support during court procedure, support for children affected by violence, etc. the member states should ensure appropriate funding means in order that women’s shelters can fulfil international standards in working with women survivors of violence and their children. the member states should provide the required means for women’s organisation and ngos in order to protect and prevent women and their children from violence and poverty, should guarantee social and economic rights of women so that they do not depend on a partner/husband financially and should promote and develop an integration of women on the labour market.
president of the commission. − first of all, to know the result of the test we must make the test before. should any installation fail the test, the question of remedial actions remains open. in cases where an upgrade is technically or economically not feasible, reactors will have to be shut down and decommissioned. however, it is possible to envisage situations where safety upgrades are economically meaningful and technically feasible, so this is what we can commit to at this stage. mr schulz, i believe it was important that the european council, after intense discussions, agreed on the role of the commission. i can tell you that the beginning of the discussions was just about the coordination of national regulators and, after i insisted, the commission was asked to come up with scopes and modalities and also given the task of presenting, before the end of the year, a full report on the findings. we are going to do this for all the nuclear sites in europe. we are going to do this in full transparency. it is important to acknowledge that fact. i believe this is progress in terms of nuclear safety.
president of the european commission. − commissioner oettinger gave a very precautionary and very prudent statement. it may happen, but to check if it can or not, we have to make serious, credible tests. this is what we are going to do, in full transparency and based on the best available expertise. as you know, it is not within the commission’s competence to shut down the tests. this is a national competence. what we are going to do – and, unlike previously, before the last european council, we have a clear mandate to do it – is work with the national independent regulators to conduct very serious, credible state stress tests. we are now defining the modalities and the scope of those stress tests. i would like to tell mr schulz that, in these various sensitive matters, we have to be extremely responsible and not create panic. we have to proceed in a technical way, based on the best scientific expertise.
president of the commission. − we certainly agree that the european union is not just a common market: it is about values and it is a condition for any member state to become a member of the european union to respect those values. one of the values is the rule of law and we have to respect our law. as you know, the adoption of a national constitution is a key step for every member state, a crucial process which belongs entirely to the people and institutions of that member state. it is for the hungarian institutions to decide on the content of, and the adoption procedure for, the new constitution, in line with their own national rules and, where relevant, with international and union law. we will follow the developments on this issue from an eu-law standpoint, but of course we hope that the hungarian authorities will ensure that the new constitution which is finally adopted will reflect the values upon which the european union is founded.
president of the european commission. − the constitution of any country has to reflect and be in accordance with european values: basic european values of democracy, the rule of law, human dignity and respect for fundamental rights. this is a matter that should not even have to be discussed. i have not yet seen a constitution of a european union member state which is against those values, but if, theoretically, that were to happen then we would have to act. as you know, mr verhofstadt, we have a very good record on that matter. we recently acted on several very sensitive issues regarding, for instance, the hungarian media law. the hungarian government said at the beginning that, if the commission identified any kind of incompatibility, it would amend the law, and it has done so. in other member states where there have been issues of non-discrimination, the commission has also taken a very strong stance. from that point of view you can be sure that the commission will follow these matters very closely.
on behalf of the ppe group. – the application of the european semester, starting with this year, will help strengthen budgetary discipline, macroeconomic stability and growth and it will oblige the member states to change their economic and budgetary policies. in the short term, these new policies could have a significant impact on european citizens’ lives in most member states. has the commission identified, or is it planning to conduct an evaluation of, the consequences that the necessary national procedures will have on the european economic, social and political landscape in the future?
president of the commission. − we are taking that exercise very seriously. it was very important to agree on what we called the european semester, because member states have now agreed unanimously that matters of economic policy of one may also have an effect on the others, and that those of the others have an effect on their own policies. we are going to make recommendations on this matter, depending also on the programmes that the member states present to us. but we are doing that to make the lives of our citizens better. we are making it clear that all the efforts of fiscal consolidation, all the efforts of structural reform, are in fact for growth – for sustainable growth, for inclusive growth – which is the goal of the european union. this was the overall agreement on what we have called the europe 2020 strategy. it is in the light of these priorities that we are going to judge the national programmes that are now going to be presented and on which we are going to work in partnership with our member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. – the most important aspect of this policy is discipline. if the member states all apply these requirements, the results will be positive. if there are differences between member states, the results will not be as we all expect.
in writing. the new european roma inclusion strategy only reiterates old goals that have proven unattainable over time. these could have been credible at the time of the launch of the decade for roma inclusion in 2005, but now, with extremism and violence against roma on the rise in the eu, we would need a strategy with much more concrete elements. tensions in hungary are escalating, the actions of the militias are becoming more and more virulent and without firm positions; in the future the situation will worsen. it is therefore inexplicable why the commission did not try to bring about real solutions, which would relate to concrete problems, all the more so since it also had the resolution adopted in the ep at its disposal.
in writing. the new strategy for coordinating national roma strategies presented by the commission today is an important step for the eu. the creation of national roma integration contact points, simplification of funding procedures, evaluation of national plans by the european institutions and monitoring of progress on roma integration in the member states are measures that will help to improve the economic and social situation of the roma population in europe. member states should carefully examine this strategy and designate as soon as possible an administrative body responsible for implementing the strategy and coordinating with the other member states. i hope that the commission will take the lead, starting this summer, in strategic coordination of developments in key areas such as the promotion of civic education, vocational guidance and employment. i regret that the new strategy does not clearly propose types of programmes for roma to be developed and implemented in a similar way in all member states, with certain deviations. i ask the council and the member states to come up with such proposals for model programmes which the commission will centralise. without such model programmes, adapted to the nomadic nature of the roma, the eu will never be able to fully contribute to the increase of added value at community level.
in writing. – the eu framework for national roma integration strategies provides an opportunity to join forces at all levels and with all stakeholders to put an end to the exclusion of the roma. the goals set up at eu level, covering four important areas for roma integration – access to education, employment, healthcare and housing – will only be reached if there is a clear commitment from member states. it is now crucial to step up a gear and ensure that national, regional and local integration policies target roma in a clear and specific way and that explicit measures address the needs of the roma to prevent and compensate for the disadvantages they face. the member states should ensure that all roma children have access to quality education and establish a concrete target for raising roma employment rates within the context of europe 2020, increasing the proportion of roma households with access to water, sanitation and electricity, and promoting non-discriminatory access to housing, including social housing. the member states should establish concrete targets with concrete timelines for raising the life expectancy of roma, raising child vaccination rates to the level of the non-roma population, and lowering infant and maternal mortality rates to the level of the non-roma population.
the reporter. − this report on the protection of the european union's financial interests is based on the report of the commission under article 325 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the fight against fraud is very clearly spoken of in this article, whereas the commission report is not very clear as to what proportion of the irregularities are fraud and what proportion are simple errors. it's very important to define fraud very clearly because we're talking about voluntary illegal behavior, we're talking about corruption in the true sense of the word, whereas mistakes are unintentional mistakes. if we can accept a tolerance for error, we can in no way accept a tolerance for fraud. there must be zero tolerance for fraud when it comes to european funds and the european union budget. another very important issue is that of data and information gathering. we need to have a very serious discussion about how member states communicate to the european union, and more specifically to the european commission, information about how european funds are used. i believe that national management statements will have a higher quality content when they come with a much greater national political responsibility. i ask the commission once again that these national management declarations be signed by the minister responsible or by a minister in the national government. on the other hand, €16.7 billion of the eu budget is own resources and mainly revenue from customs duties. 70% of imports go through the so-called simplified procedure. i will quote here from the court of auditors' special report no 1/2010, which highlights the following: 'the control over these simplified procedures is very low and the number of errors identified by the court is alarming.' it is very important that in this case the commission assesses the financial impact of these irregularities. i would like to congratulate olaf on operation diablo ii, which is not only aimed at protecting the financial interests of the european union but also at combating counterfeiting. beyond the damage that these counterfeit products cause to the fiscal framework and the budget of the european union, we are talking about the safety of european citizens, we are talking about the negative effects on the economy of the european union. i shall continue to refer to expenditure and i shall speak on the one hand about the use of european funds and on the other hand about the recovery of funds which have been misappropriated. if we are talking about the use of european funds, we are talking here of course about the integrated system for the administration and control of european funds, a very good system, but which, once implemented, faces very great difficulties, because it is based on incorrect data bases and also suffers from the identification of the parcels to be used. i would also like to say that it is worrying that 42% of agricultural funds are recovered and only 50% of cohesion funds. these are very worrying figures and we have to be very careful about recovering funds.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ivan, for his constructive report. i will concentrate my remarks on six very important elements of it. firstly, the question of the information provided in the report on the protection of financial interests. the 2009 report already includes new detailed information on levels of fraud and irregularities, and indicates the suspected fraud rate per member state for the 2000-2006 cohesion programmes. further improvements are always possible, and i will take due account of your suggestions. secondly, on the issue of the convention on the protection of financial interests, i am preparing a communication for next may, together with vice-president reding. it will present a strategy for the protection of eu public money against all forms of illegal conduct, including fraud, and will look at procedures, substantive criminal law and the institutional framework. thirdly, turning to own resources, in 2010 the commission started to visit all member states to examine simplified customs import procedures. it will report to the parliament as soon as enough information has been gathered for a meaningful analysis of their implementation and performance. fourthly, on cigarette smuggling, agreements have now been concluded with four tobacco manufacturers. we will continue to push for a protocol on the elimination of the illicit trade in tobacco products under the who convention on tobacco control. on the fifth point, i fully agree that failures in applying public procurement rules are an important source of errors and fraud. the commission vigorously implements financial corrections with rates of up to 100% of the allocated funding, depending on the gravity of the irregularities. we propose simplification and clarification of eu procurements directives by 2012, in line with the green paper published earlier this year. finally, i share the view that the recovery of unduly paid funds is a key element in protecting the eu’s financial interests. for multiannual cohesion programmes, the commission is making extensive use of the interruption and suspension of payments, avoiding payments to member states where management and control systems are found not be effective. in 2010, more than eur 2.4 billion of payments under the regional and social funds were preventively interrupted. the commission will continue to push member states towards more efficient management of recovery from final beneficiaries. the situation is improving. in the agricultural sector, for example, the recovery rate at the end of 2010 went up to 53% for new 2007 cases, compared to 10% for cases dating from before 2006. let me stress, however, that for multiannual programmes the full picture is only seen when the programmes are closed, after any irregularities have been satisfactorily dealt with by the member states. to conclude, the commission will endeavour to actively follow up the actions which parliament has proposed. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i believe we have to talk about what we need to correct, so i will refer to the critical issues. the first of them is the fact that the commission’s report did not provide information on the estimated level of irregularities and fraud in individual member states. therefore, we lack a clear picture of the problem at member state level. in addition, the commission dealt broadly with irregularities but failed to look at fraud in detail. we expect that to change in the report for the following year. the second issue concerns public procurement, which, as we all know, is the area with the highest risk of fraud and corruption. what we call for in this report is for the commission to focus on regulating public procurement: to apply uniform systems of procurement; to define and implement clear conditions for participation in public procurement; to implement criteria for decision-making on public procurement and bring transparency to these decisions; and also to review public procurement decisions and ensure transparency and accountability in public finances. we expect the commission and the council to finalise the adoption of the public procurement reform and to consult with us on this. the third issue concerns the transparency of beneficiaries’ funding. there is a page on the commission’s website where we can see some of the beneficiaries of european funds in the member states. however, we need to improve this greatly. we need one-stop transparency. we need a single website that publishes all the beneficiaries of eu funds on the basis of standard categories of information to be supplied by all the member states in at least one working language of the union. otherwise we will be lost in a lot of diverse information that fails to provide any overall picture and cannot offer transparency. as the commissioner said, there is always room for improvement, and i hope to see improvement in the areas i have mentioned.
economic and financial crime must be reduced in each member state. large sums of eu funds are being spent for other purposes, and vat recovery fraud is on the rise. i have said it before and i will say it again: an effective way to eliminate corruption in the public procurement system is to introduce electronic auctioning. as a border state with the eu, romania has a greater responsibility in mitigating the impact of illicit activities. in this regard, the state authorities have undertaken extensive actions over the past two months to eliminate customs corruption. increased cooperation and exchange of experience with the western balkans region is needed to protect the eu's financial interests more effectively. i am referring, for example, to cigarette smuggling, which is a direct and significant burden on the european budget.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like once again to thank mr ivan for a very constructive and good report and also all members for the contributions made during this debate, which will certainly be taken on board by the commission when preparing the report for 2010. the commission will further improve the format and content of the article 325 annual report on the protection of financial interests and will take into account the suggestions that were made during the debate. as i mentioned, we have already improved the statistics, but of course there is still room for more improvement. we are asking member states to present more information and also to distinguish better between fraud and irregularities in order to be able to present clear information on both fraud and irregularities. i fully agree with mrs grässle that we can make improvements in the irregularities management system, and we are working on it very seriously. the issue was raised of transparency of beneficiaries as well. we are improving this and the ideas that were presented here will also be analysed by the commission. the commission also shares the view that, although measures have been taken by the member states to make control systems in the fight against fraud and corruption more efficient, there is still room for further improvement. regarding the points made by mr geier: fraud has no specific national borders. it is not just a problem for several member states or new member states but also for the member states that you mentioned in your intervention. of course, we have to address this issue seriously throughout the european union and my intention is to really improve the content of the report for 2010. i and my services have been working seriously on it and i believe that the report for 2010 will be of the highest possible quality.
the reporter. - i too would like to thank the commissioner and all the colleagues who have contributed to this report, either in the debate today or through amendments. i also want to thank the alternate rapporteurs, with whom i have had a very good relationship. this report is the result of the very good work and collaboration we have had. i would like to say again that we must clearly define the difference between irregularities and fraud. if we can accept a tolerance for error and irregularity, we must have zero tolerance for fraud. secondly, the national management declarations must be signed by the national political leader, the minister responsible. thirdly, we look forward to the commission's control of the simplified procedure, because it is very important that the european union's own resources are collected as efficiently as possible and that the budget is consolidated as efficiently as possible. fourthly, as regards the law on public procurement and the bureaucracy involved in the use of european funds at national level, we are faced in many member states with excessive bureaucracy which is designed, on the one hand, to combat fraud but which, on the other hand, creates opportunities for corruption and fraud of european funds. in another sense, being highly politicized, the funds go to the political clientele. last but not least, i should like to welcome the proposal by mr jens geier to introduce a system of systematic suspension of european funds when fraud is suspected. i think that this will also make it much easier for the member states to react more quickly when we sound the alarm.
i would like to ask: as regards national health programmes and the fact that unfortunately many member states have cut their health budgets as a result of the economic and financial crisis, what measures does the commission envisage so that the member states do not cut their health budgets? every person who's not treated on time is an additional cost to the health care system.
transparent funding of european political parties is fundamental to supporting democratic values. we need a european space where political parties are active and citizens are at the heart of the european union's concerns. the adoption of the european legal status is a step towards improving the regulatory framework for european political parties. as for my country, we have the law no. 334 of 2006, revised in 2010. in the public sphere, however, there is debate over whether it would be more appropriate for the funding for candidates for mayor and parliament to be borne by the state budget. the proposed ceiling is approximately eur 11 600 per candidate. by assuming these cost standards, electoral bribery and illegal financing would be eliminated. parties would put competent candidates first, not people capable of promoting their own campaigns.
in writing. the european union has been repeatedly criticised for its democratic deficit. for genuine democracy we need a european political space in the true sense of the word, and political parties at european level are an essential instrument for achieving this goal. the proposals for reform of the regulation on the statute and funding of political parties, presented in this report, are a step towards making the work of european political parties more efficient. i believe that they can do their job much better if they have a uniform political and legal status based on european law. the current system in which these parties have legal personality under national law does not provide the most favourable conditions for effective communication of these parties with the electorate in the 27 member states. the introduction of a european statute would help political parties at european level to adapt to a possible reform of the electoral system for european elections, which is currently under discussion. i also welcome the facilitation of the involvement of european political parties in the campaigns for referendums on european issues at member state level. most of the time, these referendums are dominated by purely national issues. the involvement of european parties could help to refocus the debate on the real issues of these referendums.
i would like to congratulate all four rapporteurs on their work on this fisheries package. i would like to stress that community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy are a major instrument of european union funding in this sector and must be continuously adapted to the needs of the citizens involved in the sector and closely in line with current challenges. the financial means required for the implementation of the common fisheries policy also include funding for projects in areas such as international relations, governance, data collection, scientific advice and control systems, as well as the implementation of the policy. i believe that fisheries management must be based on current scientific information on the state of stocks, precisely in order to allow the provisions of the regulation in force to be adapted as effectively as possible to real needs.
(parliament adopted the resolution) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is perhaps one of the most important achievements and an undeniable strength of the european union, of which we can all be proud. i think it is no exaggeration to say that the internal market is at the heart of the european construction. the internal market has over time shown its benefits for european consumers and businesses, and has contributed to our economic growth. however, in recent times there has been a certain fatigue in the integration of the market. we therefore need to give a new impetus to the internal market. we need to restore the confidence of european citizens in it. we need a new beginning. i very much appreciate the work of the commission in this respect, and particularly the good work of commissioner michel barnier, whom i would like to congratulate once again on his firm commitment and efforts to relaunch the internal market. the commission has proposed an ambitious programme which is at the same time realistic and necessary to restore the strength of the internal market. i am convinced that if these measures are implemented, they will make the internal market more attractive to our citizens and businesses and will bring more efficiency to its overall functioning. concerning my report, i have to say that we did not have an easy task. our task was ambitious because we had to find a consensus on the measures laying the foundations for a strong and modern single market which would contribute to future growth and which would, above all, meet the expectations of our citizens and businesses. we considered whether the emphasis should be on innovation, what should be done in the field of intellectual property rights, and what fiscal measures are appropriate in order to enhance the single market while respecting the sovereignty of the member states. following our discussions, and after many contributions for which i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs for opinions and all the other colleagues who tabled amendments we managed to identify a set of five priorities to be implemented immediately. the first priority refers to the means to support innovation and creativity in the single market, which is essential if we want stronger and more sustainable growth. the creation of an eu patent and of a unified litigation system, which is already under way, as well as the improvement to management of copyrights, are of paramount importance. if we want innovation, we also need to come up with a solution for financing it, such as long-term investment and a framework that would make it easier for venture capital funds to be invested effectively. eu project bonds can also be a great opportunity for infrastructure investments in the field of energy or telecommunications. our third priority seeks to bring the single market in line with our digital agenda by stimulating e-commerce. this requires measures that would enhance consumer and business confidence in e-commerce, such as fighting counterfeiting and piracy and facilitating cross-border deliveries and cross-border debt recovery. the fourth priority aims to make the single market a better environment for smes, given their importance for economic growth and their job creation potential. they need better access to capital markets. fiscal measures such as the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base, a clear vat framework and reducing administrative burdens could encourage smes to do cross-border business. finally, public procurement procedures need to be rationalised. they need simplification to allow smes to take part in procedures, and they should be better used in order to support smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
mr president, as a liberal i welcome the launch of the single market act. removing national barriers should create an effective single market but is this really applicable in all sectors? it seems obvious to me in the energy sector, and even more in terms of scarcity of resources and international tensions. i strongly believe that europe has to throw its weight to push member states to interconnect and invest in their infrastructure as a precondition for a common energy market and security of supply. however, this new brussels mantra is only desirable so long as it reinforces competitiveness and lower prices for consumers, and there are sectors where it might not be possible. i doubt whether creating european telecom champions, establishing pan-european licensing in the audiovisual sector or a single market for on-line content will bring more competitiveness in the long run or stimulate creativity, culture and growth. so maybe we should take time to sit down and think, and should not charge like bulls into an easy-market concept.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the quality of their work, and in particular mr campos on the ambitious proposals to meet the challenge of reconciling two seemingly contradictory objectives, the relaunch of the single market and the restoration of european citizens' confidence in the proper functioning of the market. in my view, the single market act must be synonymous with a coherent and balanced package of measures, in line with the grech and monti reports, which will lay the foundations for a europe that creates added value for citizens and businesses alike. the concerns and rights of citizens must be at the heart of the measures to relaunch and strengthen the internal market. in this respect, i welcome the proposal to have a european citizens' card containing multilingual information on the right to live and work in any of the member states.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank you all for your contributions to this debate and for your positive remarks. i would also like to congratulate my colleagues, mrs kalniete and mr correia de campos, for their good work. we now have on the table three reports which are the result of a couple of months of hard work. despite the difficulties we have encountered, i am pleased with the results we have achieved. we have identified the right challenges and a set of viable solutions. they are also a clear expression of the european parliament’s commitment to deepen and strengthen the single market. i strongly believe that the three reports will be a useful complement to the broad public consultation organised by the commission, which generated almost 750 responses. i welcome the interest that enterprises, individuals, ngos and public authorities have shown in the single market act, since it is crucial that we have a broad consensus on measures to tailor the single market according to the expectations of our citizens and enterprises. i am pleased to see that the commission is really active and that some of the initiatives are already under way. i have no doubt that the commission will take due account of the views of the european parliament, because in the end the most important question is: can we make a significant difference with our actions and our efforts? my answer is, yes we can, but to do so we need courage and not shyness. we need to take action immediately and not after some years. we need to all act together in our efforts and not separately with some isolated actions. it is time to act.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis we are going through has shown us that if we move away from the fundamental objective of the economy which is to ensure the well-being of citizens, we risk pushing the whole society towards collapse. this is also true for the single market. we must not forget that its role is to enable every european citizen to enjoy throughout the union equivalent economic and social rights that ensure his well-being. the single market must be deepened and reoriented towards citizens and their interests. i think that in this time of crisis it is important to make the most of what europe has most precious, namely human capital. the mobility of workers within the eu is the key to economic recovery and the development of the single market. we must encourage this mobility, and the first thing worth doing is to remove any barriers to the movement of labour within the eu. restrictions on workers in the new member states are an obstacle to the harmonious development of the single market and must be removed immediately.
in writing. – in my opinion, a single market for europeans should also mean a single market of quality. unfortunately, this report does not make any kind of reference to this issue. in the european union, products are sometimes offered under the same brand names, but with a different product formulation, in different countries. products reportedly have the same brand name but are available in different concentrations or strengths. situations have been reported where products of four different quality categories were sold under the same brand, depending on the destination country. as a result, the – apparently – same product is of different quality depending on the country of purchase. as a brand name is associated with perceived quality, this practice could result in misleading the public. businesses must avoid misleading consumers about the advantages related to the brand of goods. if producers want to reduce the quality of the goods they offer, they should use a different brand name. our citizens believe that the quality of brand goods should be identical on every market, based on the principle that one brand equals one level of quality. as my constituents are preoccupied by this issue, i would like to see it raised in our discussions in this house.
in writing. − i supported the report because the inclusion of €182.4 million is expected by member states that were affected by floods caused by torrential rains. the countries concerned are poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania. like the rapporteur, i believe that the interventions from the solidarity fund should be able to be mobilised much more quickly and efficiently than is currently the case.
in writing. − the solidarity fund is a very important instrument for the eu. beyond its financial impact, it is also an expression of european solidarity. but the council has just shown us that this solidarity is beginning to wane. today, the council is forcing us to cut funding from very important programs to help citizens who have already suffered so much from last year's floods. moreover, if we look at the member states which are blocking the idea of 'new money' in the council today to cover the needs of the fund, we note that they are the ones which in previous years have also benefited from large sums of money. the union is based on the concept of solidarity. without it we could not have built europe as it is today; without it we cannot build the europe of tomorrow.
in writing. - the european union's main feature is solidarity. in the light of this solidarity, i consider it appropriate and necessary to report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the 2010 floods in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania. this solidarity will be all the more necessary as climate change continues to cause disasters across europe. in this context, strategies should be developed that also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the european community's efforts must be directed towards strengthening the action taken by the member states to prevent and reduce the effects of major floods in europe, which are becoming more frequent. the assessment by member states of activities that increase flood risks and the increase of the responsiveness, mobility and flexibility of interventions should be a priority in this regard. last but not least, i would like to stress the importance of informing and involving citizens in flood management actions and plans.
in writing. − last summer, most of romania was affected by severe flooding and landslides. the damage was estimated at almost eur 900 million, i.e. almost 0,7% of romania's gdp. aid under the solidarity fund is welcome and will help both to mitigate the effects of the disaster and to prevent other events of the same nature. the solidarity fund is one of the concrete examples that can be offered to our citizens about the importance of joint action at european level.
in writing. − the direct costs of the 2010 floods in poland, slovakia, the czech republic, hungary, croatia and romania amount to eur 5 512 719 662. i voted for this report to approve the mobilisation of eur 182.4 million from the eu solidarity fund for these floods. i did not agree with the source of funding, the so-called 'negative reserve' proposed by the council, but i voted in favour of the council's proposal because i believe that citizens, victims of floods, cannot become victims of an interinstitutional battle between the member states and the european parliament.
in writing. − i supported this report because it represents a commitment to promote responsible and sustainable fishing practices in all areas where eu vessels might operate, based on a careful analysis of available resources and after it has been established with certainty that the fishing opportunities applied have been guaranteed by credible scientific advice and that there is no risk of depleting local fisheries resources. the union of the comoros is considered one of the least developed countries, with an economy that is highly dependent on foreign subsidies and technical assistance. while the exploitable stocks of the union of the comoros, mainly large pelagic fish, are estimated at 33 000 tonnes per year, the annual catches of local fishermen amount to about 16 000 tonnes, which are completely absorbed by the local market. the main objective of the new protocol is to define the fishing opportunities offered to eu vessels in terms of access rights and sectoral support and to continue the cooperation between the eu and the cu with a view to extending the partnership framework, developing a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros's fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
in writing. − improving the euromed trade agreement can contribute to the economic and political stability of this region with a view to consolidating a single space where values such as peace, justice, equity, freedom and democracy govern. the establishment of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is intended to ensure streamlined and effective remedies with strict deadlines, which could lead to security and predictability of bilateral trade relations, thus establishing a better functioning euromed free trade area. i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. − given that the current dispute settlement rules are based on a diplomatic approach and can easily be blocked by the party that does not fulfil its obligations, i believe that the adoption of this agreement will improve the security and predictability of trade relations between the european union and morocco, and the agreement will benefit both companies and consumers. its adoption is in line with the post-2010 euro-mediterranean trade roadmap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of our rapporteur's proposal and believe that by fulfilling the obligations assumed under this protocol, both sides will benefit. the union a solid, stable and democratic partner on the eastern border, and the citizens of ukraine a somewhat clearer european perspective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council decision on a framework agreement between the european union and ukraine on the general principles for the participation of that country in union programmes. this document is part of the european neighbourhood policy, but also meets ukraine's desire to participate in several current and future eu programmes. in addition, ukraine will be able to request union assistance for participation in a specific programme in accordance with the general provisions on the establishment of a european neighbourhood and partnership instrument or under any other similar regulation providing for external assistance. in this way, romania's relations with ukraine can also benefit from a new breath. we need to develop these links in a pragmatic way so that citizens are the direct beneficiaries of our political decisions.
in writing. − despite the efforts to harmonise asylum over the past decade, there are still significant differences between national provisions and their application. such discrepancies are incompatible with a common european asylum system and constitute obstacles to its establishment. they contradict one of the basic principles of the dublin system, which is based on the presumption that the asylum systems of the member states are comparable. regardless of the member state in which persons apply for asylum, they must enjoy a high and equivalent level of protection throughout the union. if legislative harmonisation will not be sufficient to reduce these differences and will need to be complemented by a strengthening of practical cooperation between member states, the adoption of a sound european legal framework is a sine qua non condition for the union to implement a common european asylum system in an adequate and effective manner, as it has repeatedly committed to do. the commission's proposal is to make up for past mistakes, as the previous approach to asylum has encouraged a number of shortcomings in the procedural guarantees for asylum seekers.
in writing. − tourism statistics are a major aspect in the development of more effective tourism policies at european, national, regional, regional and local levels. however, these statistics are not only used to monitor tourism-specific policies, but at the same time play a key role in the context of regional policy and sustainable development. i believe that the european union's tourism sector needs to be strengthened by coordinated measures at community level to complement the initiatives of the member states. i welcome the updating and optimisation of the legal framework for european tourism statistics to better respond to the challenges facing the sector, such as climate change, environmental constraints, global competition, demographic trends and the seasonal distribution of tourist trips. this new common framework for the systematic production of european statistics on tourism should be established by the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by member states of harmonised statistics on demand and supply. i voted in favour of this report because tourism is an important economic activity in the european union, contributing to employment and growth.
in writing. − europe ranks 7th in the top 10 destinations in a statistic covering the 50 most admired countries in the world. it is a very good proof that europe has a great tourist and cultural potential, but that there are still opportunities for exploitation, including for european citizens. i believe that one such possibility is the participation of older people, but also of young people and families with difficulties, as well as of people with reduced mobility, in the programmes developed by the union in the field of social tourism. however, this requires appropriate statistical data - based on common collection methods - for the development of programmes for these categories of tourists in all member states of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european statistics on tourism report today. it is a positive step to establish a regulation that will take account of tourism statistics from all member states. the importance of tourism in european law was greatly elevated when it was made a competence under the lisbon treaty in december 2009. going forward, member states will have to ensure the accuracy of statistical data transmitted in order to achieve quality results. while european-level coordination will be very beneficial for the european tourism sector, any pan-european initiatives should seek to complement member states’ initiatives and tourism strategies. by providing statistical data, the eu will be in a better position to help the tourism industry, including smes, and to improve the overall marketing of europe as a highly desirable tourist destination. the distinction between internal and national tourism is drawn in the report. internal tourism covers the capacity of tourist accommodation establishments, and national tourism covers participation in tourism, including excursions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must do everything we can to remain the world's number one tourist destination and, to do so, we must make the most of all possible funding opportunities. the development of sustainable, responsible and quality tourism requires updating and optimising the legal framework for european statistics in this field. by achieving better quality statistical reporting, based on comparative and reliable data, we will benefit from a solid basis in the decision-making process for the development of community policies and financial instruments.
in writing. − i supported this report because regulation (ec) no 861/2006 laying down community financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea is an important instrument for eu funding in the fisheries sector and one of the two main instruments used to implement the cfp, the other being the european fisheries fund. like the rapporteur, i believe it is becoming increasingly clear that fisheries management must be based on the latest scientific information on the state of stocks. this is an indispensable condition for the sustainable development of the fisheries sector. as regards control, its importance for the future and sustainability of the fisheries sector and as a means of promoting a culture of compliance is certainly more widely recognised today. member states and their control authorities play and must continue to play a central role in the process of monitoring and enforcing control measures in their territorial waters. this is a key way to ensure compliance and stock levels.
in writing. − i believe that the aquaculture sector is growing in importance, as this report shows, which highlights 'a new impetus for the sustainable development strategy for european aquaculture' and offers real opportunities for the development of this sector. properly conducted environmental and health monitoring and surveillance thus contributes to the sustainability of this important sector.
in writing. - i voted for mr fernandes' report. this report allows us to analyse the 2012 budget for the european parliament objectively. surely, it will have to be a rigorous budget of austerity. it is important to take inflation into account, and this means that the 2012 budget actually implies a reduction in the amounts available. all expenditure must be justified and substantiated. variable costs must be processed in cost-benefit analyses in order to avoid any additional costs in the future. in 2012, we have to improve the situation of young people. the objectives set must relate primarily to young people. i would like to stress that young people must be helped in vocational training and in the fight against school dropout. in this respect, more money must be made available for projects aimed at young people. they need support to integrate into the labour market.
in writing. − i supported this resolution because i believe that health claims can influence consumer choices and that these claims must be used responsibly on the basis of the highest quality scientific evaluation. it is very true that the presence of adh in breast milk has positive effects on the development of visual function in infants up to 12 months of age, but this does not automatically mean that synthesised adh, included in other forms of infant milk, has the same effects. in breast milk, adh is accompanied by other co-enzymes and co-factors, which together have this effect on the development of visual function. there is currently no scientific consensus on the positive effects of adh-enriched milk products for infants. therefore, i consider it premature to authorize the use of such a term until we have tangible scientific evidence to that effect. a health claim of this kind may mislead consumers and may have undesirable effects on the health of children.
in writing. − future european policy must promote sustainable, environmentally friendly investment, especially in the extractive industries, and encourage good working conditions in the enterprises targeted by international investment. i believe that any investment agreement should be accompanied by a set of social and environmental rules, both in the case of negotiating a chapter in a free trade agreement and in the case of an autonomous investment agreement. european policy must protect biodiversity and promote technology transfer and infrastructure improvements. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs a coherent investment policy that makes a positive contribution to economic growth and sustainable development and to employment.
in writing. - my vote was for this report. we all know that under the lisbon treaty, foreign investment is the exclusive competence of the eu. on the basis of this new competence, both the commission and the member states can, together with parliament, develop a policy to promote high-quality investment with a positive impact on growth and employment. the crisis naturally reduced the volume of foreign direct investment, which in 2007 had reached eur 1 500 billion. i also welcome the proposal to introduce the term 'eu investor' and believe that the protection of all eu investors should be the top priority of investment agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must guarantee external competitiveness and the equal treatment of all eu investors and we must have maximum leverage in international investment negotiations. they must cover all types of investment and the eu must ensure that no eu investor is treated worse than under bilateral investment treaties between member states. investment liberalisation and protection are becoming fundamental instruments of a common international investment policy. however, member states will continue to implement investment promotion policies which are complementary to and compatible with the common international investment policy.
in writing. - i voted with all my heart in favour of the report and the proposals put forward by our colleague. beyond criticism of the ambiguities in the commission's assessment, i support the rapporteur's idea that we cannot draw conclusions on the situation of the union's financial interests and the results of the fight against fraud if we add to them the data from the 2009 annual report of the court of auditors and that of olaf.
in writing. − taking into account the amount of fraud compared to irregularities in the own resources sector for the member states austria, spain, italy, romania and slovakia, where fraud constitutes more than half of the total amount of irregularities in each member state, and also the shortcomings in national customs supervision, i consider it necessary to strengthen customs supervision systems. in parallel, the european commission must exercise its responsibility to ensure that member states comply with their reporting obligations in order to provide reliable and comparable data on irregularities and fraud.
in writing. − this report summarises the statistics on irregularities reported by the member states in the areas where they implement the budget (agricultural policy, cohesion policy and pre-accession funds, i.e. about 80% of the budget) and on the collection of the eu's traditional own resources. i consider that the protection of the eu's financial interests and the fight against fraud are particularly important areas and that the responsibility lies with both the european union and the member states. the report also provides an estimate of irregularities in the area of expenditure managed directly by the commission and an overview of the operational work of the european anti-fraud office.
in writing. − the european union is a mosaic of diverse nations, cultures, opinions and beliefs which, in the current social and political context, must be uniformly represented and equally supported in legislative forums, whether national or european. the concept of representativeness is at the heart of the european construction and it will have to be maintained and supported because only then can the project of a united europe make sense. i believe that relaxing the funding regime for political parties at european level can lead to strengthening and promoting in the future the principle of representative democracy and, consequently, the interests of all european citizens who contribute to the union budget. in the process of moving from the concept of the european polis to the sense of european political identity, we must strive to simplify direct contact between citizens and european political parties. in her report, mrs giannakou stresses that this is not possible without a rethinking of the statute and funding of european parties. the emphasis should be on the de-bureaucratization of the procedures for granting funding, as the report rightly points out, but with the introduction of drastic sanctions in the event of irregularities or non-compliance with existing rules. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that european political parties are the basic instruments of parliamentary democracy, even if at this stage they are only 'shadows' of the affiliated national parties. i also support the idea that only parties represented by at least one member of the european parliament can receive funding. i think that the idea of asking the commission to propose a draft statute for european political parties, in accordance with the tfeu, is correct and i support, together with the rapporteur, that we need changes in the financial regulation on the funding of european political parties and foundations and that the funding should be fully granted at the beginning of the year.
in writing. − the development of european political parties is essential to generate public interest in eu affairs. addressing the issue of european party regulation is a deeper concern, related to how to create a transnational civic space of free and equal citizens, and what a 'collective constitution' in the form of a 'civic contract' between different peoples might mean for the future of integration. developing a reform package for european political parties as a means of mobilising the democratic energies of individual citizens and their organisations is not an easy task, not least because of the systemic complexity of the eu. strengthening european political parties is a way to improve participatory governance in the eu and ultimately to strengthen democracy. the future of the eu lies in european political parties, as complicated as that may sound. creating a secure and transparent environment for their operation and funding is a first step. we need a space, a european space, in which political parties can be active and bring citizens to the centre of the union's concerns and help them in their daily lives, where there is a marked detachment of the european citizen from the union.
in writing. − i supported the proposals of the rapporteur and the approach in the commission communication 'towards a single market act', but also the idea that an annual single market forum is necessary. local and regional authorities should be more involved in creating the single market, and dialogue with social partners and civil society helps to restore confidence in the single market. and i think that using regulations instead of directives would create a clearer regulatory environment and reduce the costs of implementation. i also think it is useful to have an assessment of the single market situation at each spring european council and that we need a legislative proposal from the commission on alternative dispute resolution by the end of this year.
in writing. − member states must adopt a firm common position to improve the functioning of the european single market and avoid the re-emergence of economic protectionism, which would lead to the fragmentation of the internal market and harm competitiveness. the single european market act aims to develop administrative cooperation between member states, including by increasing the role of regional authorities to achieve coordination at their level. unfortunately, registration of such programmes at regional level is relatively difficult to achieve due to economic disparities between eu regions. to revitalise the less developed regions, we need to focus on human capital. the prosperity of a region is determined in part by the productivity of its people, their skills, together with the scale of capital investment and the capacity for innovation. however, there are major differences even between regions within the same member state. i believe that adapting the european single market to the needs of european citizens is achieved primarily by improving the mobility of workers. the free movement of labour can make a considerable contribution to reducing disparities between regions. another key aspect is the education and continuing training of human capital. skilled workers and workers made redundant can more easily meet the specific needs of the market, due to their high degree of mobility.
in writing. − a barrier-free and competitive single market should be completed to bring tangible benefits to workers, students, pensioners and citizens in general, as well as to businesses, in particular smes. good governance and legal certainty are essential to achieve the economic and social objectives of the single market, such as the free movement of workers, the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, a high level of education and training and the transferability of pensions. the european executive should further promote the one-stop shop, integrating all existing services into a single point of access and providing citizens and businesses with information and support on their rights in the single market, as well as practical information on national rules and procedures. i call on the member states to make the public better aware of the one-stop shop and its component services. the ec must integrate fundamental rights into all single market legislation. the implementation of the fundamental economic freedoms of the single market should not affect the rights to collective bargaining and the right to strike as defined in national law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because we need progress. there are indeed too many obstacles to citizens wishing to study, work or move and buy in another member state. it is still difficult for small and medium-sized firms. european citizens need not only more information but also simpler, clearer and better communicated legislation.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for a communication on restoring european citizens' confidence in the single market is somewhat unclear when viewed in relation to the eu 2020 strategy. many of its proposals overlap with various other initiatives. in this context, there is a need for better coherence, effectiveness and governance if the revised single market is to support growth, employment and competitiveness in the eu, as well as respect for citizens' and consumers' rights. the council and the member states must jointly support the european and national commitment to deepening and consolidating the single market. efforts to achieve the single market have focused on its organisation and little on the concerns and rights of citizens, workers and consumers, which could explain the reluctance and lack of enthusiasm of european citizens towards the internal market. citizens must be at the heart of the single market. this is clearly stated in the introduction to the document. however, the proposals to achieve this objective are insufficient to achieve it. the grech report, adopted by parliament in may 2010, recommended a comprehensive approach to relaunching and strengthening the internal market, including sectors such as industry, energy and infrastructure.
in writing. - i voted for mr de campos's resolution because i think that the final text proposed by him is balanced. in addition, i appreciated the fact that the proposals in the grech report, as well as those in the monti report, were recalled by the rapporteur. regaining the trust of european citizens in the proper functioning of the single market should be the european commission's main concern. however, dividing the proposals into three different chapters does not give an overall view of the single market act. moreover, this criticism was incorporated in mr de campos' final report. also, as shadow rapporteur of my political group for the econ opinion on the report 'a single market for europeans', i tabled an amendment calling on member states which still impose labour market restrictions on workers from the new member states to abandon these barriers in favour of clear economic benefits, especially in times of economic crisis. i am glad that this amendment has the support of the majority of my colleagues.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ‘single market for europeans’ report. it is the duty of the european institutions to facilitate a highly developed, highly competitive social market economy that will seek to create full employment and stimulate social progress. i believe that the single market is one of the key drivers for european growth. market fatigue is a cause for concern and this must be examined in detail. most importantly, this report reaffirms citizens’ fundamental social rights in the field of collective action, labour law, employment protection and industrial restructuring in line with primary european law. i am in favour of the short-term strategies suggested in this report including the enhancement of european market surveillance, the creation of a single integrated mortgage market and the removal of tax obstacles and double taxation. implementing a sound e-commerce policy will increase citizens’ and consumers’ confidence when shopping online. i would like to also welcome the proposal to create an action plan to reduce illegal counterfeiting of goods. this will contribute to a rapid return to growth in the goods sector.
in writing. − the single market for europeans is primarily about jobs and job creation, which helps to create an environment in which businesses and citizens can fully exercise their rights. a more ambitious approach is needed with regard to the proposal for a directive on the posting of workers, aiming at a revision of the directive to ensure, in addition to economic freedoms, the protection of labour law rules, the most advanced industrial relations practices and standards, and the respect of the rights to representation and collective bargaining, to collective action, including the right to strike, and the full application of the principle of equal pay for work of equal value. it is essential to develop a european transport network through a common european funding framework, boosting competitiveness, integration and facilitating the mobility of citizens and workers by providing affordable services. i consider the training and qualification of workers to be of vital importance, as it is fundamental to job creation, social integration and the success of the single market. calls on the member states to remove barriers to the mobility of workers from the new member states, taking into account the positive effect of their mobility in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the single market must provide the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as regards creating the economic conditions for businesses to benefit from the opportunities offered by the single market to develop and become more competitive, there is a need to improve the economic governance of the european union. removing barriers to mobility and harmonising institutional arrangements in order to promote integration, growth and european solidarity are important benefits for the single market. i voted in favour of this report because i encourage confidence in the single market at all levels and the removal of current barriers to entry for businesses. the single market based on free and fair competition is the key objective of the european union's economic reform and a fundamental competitive advantage for europe in a globalised economy.
in writing. − i believe it is good for europe to improve access to information for all companies, including small and medium-sized enterprises, on the financial support they can call on for innovation, for better involvement in research programmes and, in particular, in public-private partnerships for the development of research and innovation programmes. i believe that the potential of these businesses is still under-exploited, which is why the eu must support this sector to expand its activities, including cross-border, and to exploit all the opportunities within the single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on a ‘single market for enterprises and growth’, because i believe it will greatly enhance our internal market for the benefit of all citizens. this report will in reality seek to strengthen industrial competitiveness, sustainable development and job creation. the european union has a unique economy, boasting 500 million consumers. by maintaining, enhancing and promoting europe’s internal market this will ensure greater movement of goods and services without barriers to trade between member states. it is critical during times of austerity to increase growth in our economy. i agree that further steps should be taken to ensure adequate implementation of the services and professional qualifications directives. through proper implementation for these directives, european citizens will be able to travel to other european member states for work and to provide services without high administrative burdens. one of the core objectives of the european union is to have an area without barriers. this report is also in favour of supporting smes which require a lot of support at this time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the single market is undoubtedly a key asset to our international competitiveness. without it, we would not play such an important role in the global balance of economic forces, especially at a time characterized by the emergence of new powers on the international scene. the evolution of the internal market and the continuous development of the regions are complementary and together lead to a strong europe, characterised by cohesion and competitiveness. in this connection, i would like to stress the particularly important role that regional policy plays in integrating the single market and i consider that an essential condition for a dynamic and strong single market is greater accessibility for all regions of the european union. the new member states are in a special situation, where accessibility is still low. supporting and improving infrastructure investment will help to increase the competitiveness of the regions lagging behind, ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and thus significantly improve the overall competitiveness of the european union as a whole.
in writing. − the single market must be relaunched and completed in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy to contribute to higher economic growth for businesses, including social economy enterprises (cooperatives, associations, mutual enterprises and foundations) and to the creation of more and better jobs, as well as to the adequate protection of the rights of european workers and consumers. call for a more sme-friendly regulatory environment by carefully assessing the impact of all new legislative or regulatory measures on smes in order to reduce red tape, increase competitiveness and promote quality jobs. it is also necessary to maintain existing provisions on the health and safety of workers. the commission's proposal to publish a vat strategy is essential, as better tax coordination between member states is needed to avoid unfair tax competition and market distortions. i believe that the proposal for a directive on the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base will boost the competitiveness of smes, in particular by reducing the obligations arising from administrative complexity and by reducing the high costs of complying with different national tax systems, thus realising the potential positive impact on public finances and employment.
first of all, i want to express my sympathy to the japanese people and i think it's important now that we give them our full support. the fukushima accident showed us that some of the existing nuclear power plants are not safe. that is why we must give greater importance to nuclear safety and i believe that the immediate conduct of safety tests for nuclear power stations is essential. on the other hand, we must not fall into the trap of making emotional and unfounded decisions about whether to keep nuclear energy or to give it up. the decision on the composition of the energy mix must remain the responsibility of the member states, while the european union must play its part in ensuring that safety standards are of the highest standard. however, any action taken at european or national level on the energy mix and nuclear regulation must be based on a high degree of scientific objectivity.
first of all, i would like to express my admiration and respect for the attitude of the japanese people towards the extraordinary situation they are going through. this situation has led to heated discussions about the future of nuclear power continue or stop. i think we need to have a balanced approach, which takes into account all the aspects: the demands of the economy, the security of citizens, climate change. i believe that the future energy policy must be based on a balance between renewable energy, new technologies for conventional resources and nuclear energy, under safe conditions. we need to invest in research for efficient renewable energy production. we need to invest to secure new sources of conventional raw materials and new supply routes for europe the southern corridor. at the same time, research and innovation is needed for new technologies that eliminate the polluting effect of conventional energy production on the environment. the nuclear safety directive needs to be revised to make it more stringent. the commission's proposed stress tests are needed. the criteria must be developed taking into account all aspects: age, technologies, natural hazards. the tests shall be carried out with the participation of the commission. the results of the tests are to be used in the revision of the directive. the consequences of the tests must be very clear. whoever falls in, keeps going, whoever doesn't, doesn't stop. i would draw attention to the need for a european policy for the treatment and storage of nuclear waste and for decommissioning power stations. last but not least, the public must maintain its confidence in atomic energy and must be properly informed.
i welcome the commission's decision to subject nuclear reactors in the european union to stress tests. we call for these checks to be carried out on the basis of common and detailed evaluation criteria, in order to further improve nuclear safety in the european union. today, there are 143 nuclear reactors in the union, with nuclear energy accounting for 30% of the european energy mix. member states are responsible for their own energy mix, but nuclear safety is our responsibility, everyone's. that is why it is important that we have a resolution on nuclear safety in the european union. i would stress that for each nuclear reactor, the investment for nuclear safety must be ensured by the end of its planned operational period. as a result of the stress tests, the standards for future nuclear reactors and, by implication, the cost of nuclear power will rise. the union therefore needs to invest substantially in energy efficiency measures and in the production and use of energy from renewable sources, in particular for the buildings and transport sectors.
in writing. in the wake of the fukushima nuclear disaster, safety rules in the nuclear industry need to be re-examined. we're talking about the more than 400 nuclear reactors around the world. it is therefore advisable to set up a stress test as soon as possible. but this is not enough - a nuclear safety culture is needed. i am reminded of the chernobyl accident in 1986, which introduced the concept of 'nuclear safety'. as regards romania, i would stress that there is no risk that an earthquake will endanger the operation of the cernavoda nuclear power plant. preventive checks have shown that the two reactors are operating safely. they produce about 20% of the country's energy consumption. the unit is resistant to earthquakes with a magnitude of eight on the richter scale, and the earthquakes that can occur in romania have an average intensity between 7 and 7,5 degrees.
in writing. – the nuclear accident in japan has raised fresh concerns about the safety of nuclear power across the globe. in romania, the nuclear power plant at cernavodă has been assessed by various bodies, including the european commission and the international atomic energy association. a study in 2004 identified seismic hazard as being the single biggest risk factor for safety at the plant. this risk must be managed effectively and, as the tragic events in japan remind us, as a matter of urgency. i therefore welcome the recent proposal to introduce stress tests for nuclear installations, as well as the entry into force of the directive on nuclear safety. regardless of what we decide about the future energy mix and how we meet our low-carbon objectives, the safety of nuclear facilities, including long-term depositories, will continue to be of the upmost importance for both current and future generations.
in writing. nuclear energy is a resource that the global economy cannot do without in the long term. the fact that dangerous accidents occur in the operation of nuclear power stations should not lead us to the conclusion that nuclear energy is rejected. the solution is to allocate more resources to research in this area and to improve nuclear technology so that we reduce the risks of accidents.
the fourth un conference on the least developed countries is a good opportunity to review international trade policy. this group of countries is facing difficulties in the context of the global economic changes that followed the financial crisis. the continuing rise in the price of basic foodstuffs is a pressing problem that cannot be ignored. the main purpose of trade aid is to increase the competitiveness of the 48 countries at home and abroad. in this context, i stress the importance of eradicating poverty and making effective use of financial assistance in achieving the millennium development goals. i consider it useful to involve developing countries in this process, given their experience in trade facilitation reform.
i am convinced that this parliament is a parliament responsible for the results that the european community is achieving in the project of global solidarity in the fight against poverty. at the same time, i am very confident that we are a responsible parliament in terms of the use of european taxpayers' money. i would like to try to justify the idea that this conference should be an opportunity for us, too, to evaluate the model of solidarity that we have promoted. because if we look at what we call the less developed countries, we see that the poor countries remain poor, and the rich countries maintain a certain standard of living. we need to re-evaluate the model of donation, the support that we give, because we risk that this aid becomes fatal to the countries that we give it to.
the president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i very much appreciate the european parliament's active involvement in the enlargement process and its constructive participation in the general enlargement debate and, in particular, of course, in the icelandic accession process. the enlargement of the european union, one of the most successful policies of the union, is one of the most important priorities of our presidency in the history of the eu. on 17 june 2010, the european council unanimously decided to grant iceland the status of candidate country. the first meeting of the ministerial accession conference was held on 27 july 2010 and the screening process was launched in november 2010 and is proceeding as planned. the next ministerial accession conference is scheduled for 27 june, so that we can take stock of the progress made and hopefully open as many chapters as possible. there are a number of areas which are particularly important and i would like to draw particular attention to them. your draft resolution does a good job of identifying these issues. in its 2010 progress report, the commission concluded that iceland fulfilled the political criteria for membership and that, despite being severely affected by the economic and financial crisis, it was sufficiently prepared to take the necessary measures to meet the requirements of eu membership. on 14 december 2010, the council concluded that iceland has a long history of well-functioning democracy, strong institutions and close links with the union. it also concluded that iceland was generally well prepared to transpose and apply the union acquis, in particular as a member of the european economic area and a party to the schengen agreement. iceland is considered to be a functioning market economy and may regain its ability to withstand the competitive constraints and market forces in the single market in the medium term. the council recalled that the negotiations aimed at iceland's full transposition and application of the union acquis. the course of the negotiations will be determined by whether iceland fulfils all its obligations under the eea agreement, taking fully into account, inter alia, the conclusions of the european council of 17 june 2010, and by the outcome of the other deficiencies identified in the commission's opinion. in parallel, the council recalled that the eea agreement remains the fundamental contractual basis for relations between the eu and iceland as long as accession negotiations are ongoing and that iceland has been an active and constructive partner within this framework and with regard to the schengen area over the past two years. it also has a good track record in applying the evolving eu acquis. the council therefore encouraged iceland to continue this practice. the european parliament's draft resolution gives an overview of the achievements and the challenges to be tackled. in the latter case, i would like to draw their attention to our common task, the need for fair and in-depth communication with the public, both with the icelandic and the eu citizens. in the light of the above, i would like to point out again that there is still a lot to be done under the hungarian presidency. as for the presidency, we naturally expect all the member states, the commission and, of course, the european parliament to help iceland in this endeavour. it is essential to keep the momentum going and to make the most of the negotiations this semester. i am convinced that iceland's accession can be a success story. it can give impetus to the whole of enlargement policy and increase its success. the motto and goal of the hungarian presidency is a strong europe. any progress in iceland's accession process will contribute to this.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate on iceland and the next steps in its accession process is very opportune. i would like to thank the house for its support for icelandic membership and to congratulate the rapporteur, mr preda, for his high quality report. the resolution under discussion is a helpful contribution to the process: it delivers the right messages to iceland at the right moment. the assessment of iceland’s compliance with the acquis – the screening exercise – is on track. since november 2010, 24 chapters have been discussed and 23 bilateral screening meetings have been completed, covering fisheries, agriculture, environment, regional policy and financial services. screening is an important technical process and the meetings have already identified sensitive issues and challenges in key chapters, such as agriculture, environment and fisheries. this stage of the negotiation process will be completed by june 2011. i can confirm that we expect actual negotiations to start towards the end of the hungarian presidency, with the opening of some chapters at the accession conference scheduled for 27 june 2011. this is an ambitious but achievable timetable and all sides are committed to moving forward. the commission stands ready to take iceland’s specificities and expectations into account, within the existing approach on accession negotiations and fully safeguarding the principles and rules of the union. we therefore aim to work in an open and constructive spirit to find solutions acceptable to both sides, in a way that reflects the high level of cooperation between the european union and the icelandic authorities. as with any accession so far, it is to be expected that this will not always be an easy task but we trust that we have embarked with iceland on a successful journey. as regards icesave, and as referred to in your resolution, the commission would welcome a swift resolution of this matter in the interests of all the parties involved. on the economic front, iceland’s banking and fiscal consolidation in the framework of the imf programme has been impressive. the adjustment programme is on track and the government is committed to further consolidation. enhanced debt restructuring will help to strengthen economic recovery. the government is also working on a strategy for the gradual lifting of capital controls. this will contribute to an improved business climate. let me also briefly mention the support measures we are putting in place under the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). there is provision for a total indicative envelope of eur 28 million for the next three years to support strengthening of administrative capacity and to prepare iceland for management of the structural funds. good progress is being made on finalising the national ipa programme for 2011 and a number of specific activities have started in the framework of the technical assistance and information exchange (taiex) programme. i fully share your views on the need for a fact-based public debate on eu accession. it can indeed play a decisive role in increasing understanding of the realities of the policies and actions of the european union, and can help to dispel myths. furthermore, i warmly welcome the fact that the icelandic authorities have started intensive communication activities. it is encouraging to note that public opinion in iceland has improved significantly in favour of the eu over the past year – both in relation to support for continuing the accession process and in terms of the attitude towards membership of the eu and its image. the commission is stepping up its own information and communication activities to facilitate well informed public debate. the european union delegation in reykjavík is fully operational and actively involved in communication activities, and an eu info centre is planned. with the screening period almost over, i am very much looking forward to starting to open the various chapters with iceland.
on behalf of the epp group. i would first like to welcome the presence of the commission and the council and the good cooperation we have had with these two institutions so far, including in the drafting of this resolution. as we did nine months ago when we decided on iceland's application to join the union, we have chosen to address four main issues in this report. the political criteria. iceland excels in this, with a strong democratic tradition. moreover, i believe that the progress made in recent months in strengthening the independence of the judiciary, removing the dominance of the minister of justice in the appointment of magistrates and strengthening their independence should be welcomed. at the same time, rigorous implementation of these measures is required. the economic criteria. as a member of the european economic area, iceland already fulfils many of the obligations of a member state. i welcome the new agreement on the icesave legislation and hope that, as the polls indicate, the people of iceland will decide to support it in the referendum in three days' time, thus marking the disappearance of this bilateral dispute from the process of negotiating accession to the union. 3. regional cooperation is also an important aspect. iceland's accession to the union represents a unique opportunity for the union to strengthen its presence in the arctic in general and in the arctic council in particular. last but not least, public opinion is essential for the success of the accession process. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
as we also noted during the visit of the official delegation of the european parliament that i attended last year, iceland has invested heavily in education, research and development, and i congratulate the icelandic authorities on their support for and participation in the lisbon strategy, including the adoption of an iceland 2020 strategy that highlights the importance of these areas and outlines objectives for the coming years. i believe that joining the european union will bring benefits to all parties involved, namely that iceland will gain economic and monetary stability, and that the european union will become stronger in the arctic region and in areas such as renewable energy and climate change. i strongly believe that it is of major importance to improve the dialogue with civil society as well as the dialogue between the european union and iceland. my simple recommendation to the icelandic people is to wait for the final outcome of the negotiations before taking a position.
on behalf of the alde group. consistent with its view on enlargement, the liberal group supports the immediate opening of negotiations. we would not, mr president, like macedonia to join turkey in the ranks of those states which, to paraphrase talleyrand, are more dancing than moving forward in their european aspirations. although this report - and i would like to thank former rapporteur thaler for the balance and objectivity he has shown in drafting it - concludes that there are a number of improvements in the situation in macedonia, i believe that the opening of negotiations will be one of the solutions that will stimulate the acceleration of reforms, the creation of a democratic framework and a real chance for this country to be a member of the european union. it is a paradox that in this country, unlike iceland, the population is motivated to attach to european values. there, the number of people who are interested in sharing these values with us is very small, but the judgment on the performance of the political leadership does not favor them. i don't think this trial should take priority.
in writing. i'm both happy and sad that we're having this conversation today. i am saddened that it has already been six years since the council granted the republic of macedonia candidate status without setting a date for the start of negotiations, despite the progress made. analysing the report by mr vigenin, i recognise many of the demands made on my country, romania, during the pre-accession period. however, i note that despite the prompt and concrete response of the republic of macedonia to these requirements, we have not made any progress in opening negotiations. the road of the republic of macedonia towards membership of the union is taking, in my opinion, far too long for its citizens not to lose their optimism and hope one day. i agree with our rapporteur that the commission, the council and the high representative should start an applicable general arbitration mechanism to resolve bilateral issues, including those with greece over the name of that country. this is an important test for the common foreign policy after the lisbon treaty, but also for the union's ability to settle disputes at its borders.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, last monday the united nations operations in côte d’ivoire and french licorne troops proceeded to neutralise the heavy weaponry that was concentrated in the hands of former president laurent gbagbo. these weapons had during the last weeks frequently been used to terrorise the civilian population in abidjan, resulting in numerous dead and wounded. the neutralisation of these weapons was thus necessary to protect civilians, and was carried out in accordance with the mandate given by the un security council in its resolution 1975. shortly afterwards, the republican forces loyal to the democratically elected president alassane ouattara launched a ground offensive on laurent gbagbo’s last stronghold in abidjan in order to force him to hand over power. due to these ongoing operations it is our hope that the whole of côte d’ivoire has now been brought under the control of its legal government. i can only regret that this transfer of power could only be achieved at the price of human life and suffering, and that the verdict of the ballot-boxes alone was not enough. this, however, is a victory for democracy in africa and sends an important message to many countries undergoing political elections in this continent. since his defeat in the presidential elections on 28 november 2010, mr gbagbo has refused to hand over power despite the fact that international observers described the elections as free and fair and the entire international community, through the un certification, recognised his opponent alassane ouattara as legally-elected president. during the four months that have passed since, several initiatives have been made by ecowas, the african union and the un to negotiate a peaceful handover of power. i would like to commend these organisations for their efforts made in the name of peace and democracy. unfortunately, all proposals for a peaceful handover of power were rejected by mr gbagbo, who insisted on clinging onto power illegally. the eu therefore holds him personally responsible for the sufferings and bloodshed that the ivorians have endured during these last four months of post-electoral crisis. mr gbagbo should therefore be brought to justice to answer for his acts. the eu, through the high representative, baroness ashton, has congratulated president ouattara on his victory, but we are aware of the numerous challenges ahead of him. he has won the war but must now win the peace. law and order must be restored so that those hundreds of thousands of people who have fled their homes and even left the country can now feel safe to go home again. the economy must be relaunched to end the last ten years of recession and provide for growth and jobs. the administration must start functioning again so that public services can be provided. the eu has stood by côte d’ivoire throughout the long years of crisis. eu cooperation has provided for humanitarian assistance but also for post-conflict aid for reconstruction and reconciliation. some eur 500 million has been disbursed since 2003. during the last dramatic months the eu has taken a number of restrictive measures against individuals and entities supporting mr gbagbo, and this is recognised by our african partners as having substantially helped throughout the crisis. the eu should continue to accompany côte d’ivoire at this crucial moment. an aid package is being prepared, to be launched at the earliest possible opportunity. it is now time to start working to implement peace in côte d’ivoire.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the last 24 hours have been particularly confusing in côte d'ivoire. we saw the announcement of an imminent surrender of laurent gbagbo, and then there was a denial. now, tired of waiting for the results of endless negotiations, president ouattara's republican forces have launched an offensive on abidjan. i think that all this confusion should not make us forget what has brought us to the present situation. i would remind you that in the last four months several hundred people have died and a million people have been displaced. we can't let the tree hide the forest. we are here because laurent gbagbo stubbornly refused to listen to the vote and accept his defeat. i think it is finally time, as his regime collapses following the defections of his loyalists, that he hands over power to the legitimate president, alassane ouattara. the violations of human rights and humanitarian law in the country, which could amount to crimes against humanity, should also not be forgotten. every effort should be made to bring the perpetrators to justice, including at international level. finally, i would like to welcome the intervention of unoci, with the support of the french forces, to implement the mandate given by the un security council to stop the use of heavy weapons and protect civilians.
mr president, i simply want to ask mr gollnisch whether he thinks that the verdict of the ballot box means anything, if, in that sense, outtara's victory is to lead ultimately to his coming to power. it is simply a question of democratic legitimacy. i was in côte d'ivoire as head of the election observation mission, and i can assure you that the elections were fair and that the victory is clear and unambiguous.
i come from galati, a romanian city on the border of the european union with moldova and ukraine, and i shall therefore refer to the revision of the neighbourhood policy, but with the eastern dimension. i would like to stress its importance both for the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region and for the energy security of the european union. i call on the commission and the member states to launch a comprehensive european union black sea strategy and to ensure adequate financial and human resources for its effective implementation. welcomes the accession of ukraine and the republic of moldova to the energy community treaty, which will play an important role in achieving the union's energy security objectives and contribute to the security of these countries. as regards the union's priority energy projects, i stress the importance of the southern gas corridor and consider that the nabucco pipeline, together with the trans adriatic pipeline, the pan-european oil pipeline, the turkey-greece-italy interconnection or the interconnection... (speaker was interrupted)
in writing. the joint discussion on the two reports on the european neighbourhood policy is welcome, as we need a coherent approach in our relations with our southern and eastern neighbours. i want to stress, first of all, that it is counterproductive to put the two geographical areas in competition. this is not about competing for resources, but about efficiently channelling resources to those partners who are making progress against the common criteria that underpin our neighbourhood policy. i am thinking in particular of respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. that is why i think we must have the courage to recognise the positive results of our neighbourhood policy - as has happened with georgia and moldova - but also the negative developments, as has unfortunately happened with countries like belarus or ukraine. differentiation must be the basic criterion, and this also applies to the southern neighbourhood. our level of demand for our european partners to respect the union's common values must, however, be uniform and very high.
in writing. – the european neighbourhood policy should remain european, not french, romanian or polish. a distinction between neighbours in the south and in the east, followed by a transfer of funds from east to south, could benefit the agenda of a sponsor state, but it would put an end to the european neighbourhood policy. the pressure brought to bear by france to fund the south while starving the programmes for the east could set an unfortunate precedent. europe should deal with its neighbourhood, and not with prioritised neighbours. a transfer of funds from east to south would send a disastrous signal to our eastern partners. it does not make sense to support democracy in the south by weakening it in the east. the european aspirations and democratic values of eastern partners could be further damaged by an impulsive visa liberalisation policy. there is no place for a 'russia first' policy in this domain. russian citizens have a right to free travel, but not before our partners in the east. granting a visa-free regime to russia would transform the russian passport into a golden document sought after in georgia, moldova and ukraine. it would internally destabilise these countries. i insist that the eu should seriously consider these problems.
the reporter. − the presentation of this report on the activities of the european investment bank is part of an annual democratic exercise which is part of the bank's responsibility to the european parliament. although it is a regular exercise, it should not be taken lightly, as it contains recommendations on important points for the future of the european union. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in december 2009, the european investment bank has become an instrument to support the european union's external policies and an important partner in boosting the union's economy. i'd like to thank my colleagues for the improvements they've made to the report. i would also like to thank the bank's staff for their very good cooperation and in particular president maystadt and vice-president kolatz-ahnen. we are all looking for a way to reconcile the growing debts and deficits of member states with growth targets illustrated, for example, in the eu 2020 strategy, targets that require major investments in education, health, technology, sustainable energy and infrastructure. i believe that the solution to this problem is a european one and the european investment bank has an important role to play in this context. i will take two major examples here of how the european investment bank has stimulated and will continue to stimulate the european economy. first, loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and project bonds. we must not forget that 99% of european enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises. investing in smes is a way of making a significant contribution to innovation, research and development activities taking place in the european union. the european investment bank provided finance to smes in 2009 and 2010 in excess of its annual target of eur 7.5 billion. the european microfinance facility was also created in 2010, bringing together €200 million of funds for those in need of microcredit. however, we note that some difficulties persist at the stage of access to funds by entrepreneurs. i believe that there is a need to improve the transparency of the bank's procedures for selecting financial intermediaries and lending to them. the european investment bank is also required to provide technical assistance and co-financing to convergence regions to enable them to absorb a greater share of the funds at their disposal. another subject i want to touch on is that of project bonds. are we justified in placing such high hopes in this financial instrument? i think we are. its objective is to raise the credit ratings of bonds issued by companies by attracting private investment to supplement national investment and that made through the cohesion funds. this multiplier effect will give companies more money to spend on infrastructure projects in the fields of transport, energy, information technology and sustainable development. it is important to focus on certain key projects, such as sustainable development, road and rail infrastructure, connecting ports to european markets and those that will enable energy independence, such as the nabucco gas pipeline or the itgi project. because we're talking today about possible solutions to the financial crisis, we come to the topic of transparency and tax havens. the lack of transparency of financial intermediaries has taken the form of tax evasion and fraud and has contributed to the difficult situation we are facing today. the european investment bank, as a european bank, has a duty not to engage in operations conducted through non-cooperative jurisdictions, such as those currently identified by various international bodies. at the same time, these lists are not yet satisfactory. the european investment bank can contribute in this area by conducting its own evaluations and publishing its results regularly. last but not least, i would like to mention the role of the bank outside the european union, in the acceding countries and in those affected by cooperation and development policies. in these countries, the european investment bank supports the european union's foreign policy objectives. i therefore believe that there is a need both to allocate more staff specialised in this area and to increase the participation of local actors in the project. i'm happy to hear the opinions of those in the room and come back to the end.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr cutas, on the very well-structured report he has produced. the european investment bank's work needs to be better targeted, selective and result-oriented. the bank must associate itself with responsible and transparent financial intermediaries. a significant increase in long-term strategic european investment is needed. we need to focus on infrastructure and cohesion at the european level. i welcome the bank's focus on the areas most affected by the crisis, smes, convergence regions and climate action. the eib shall apply an active information policy through its website with regard to the loans granted. emphasis should be placed on the amounts paid, the number of transfers made and the regions which benefited from these funds.
the focus of eib investment on convergence regions, smes and climate action is responding to the effects of the crisis in the most affected areas. convergence regions receive substantial eib support. structural programme loans are designed to increase the absorption, efficiency and multiplication of european financial support resources, especially in regions with low rates of access to funds. joint eib and commission initiatives in support of convergence have aimed to promote access to finance for smes, the development of microcredit for growth and job creation and support for sustainable investment in urban areas. the jessica, jeremie and jaspers financial instruments have shown real interest. due to the success of their use, i support the scope extension and the identification of innovative financial products in the future. i congratulate mr cutaş on the excellent report he has presented.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, several honourable members referred to the issue of proper regulatory supervision. i would like to assure them that the commission is giving careful consideration to the question of eib regulatory supervision. indeed, there is a need for an appropriate supervision framework to ensure that the eib’s excellent credit standing can be preserved at all times. however, the supranational nature of the eib and the eib statutory provisions, which form part of the treaty, should be taken properly into account. the eib has recently taken concrete steps to address the situation, in particular through the enforcement of its audit committee, which has significant banking supervisory experience. in addition to this, since the eib has been granted refinancing from the ecb, it complies also with the necessary reporting requirements vis-à-vis the ecb. on the other hand, we believe that the european banking authority and the ecb cannot ensure the regulatory supervision of the eib but, of course, we will not rule out the possibility for the eib to fund other types of arrangements based on a voluntary approach by the eib with other bodies. as regards cooperation and the role of the commission in cooperation with the eib, here i would like to underline that the commission already has a significant role in the governance of the eib in that it delivers an opinion on all eib loans, on own resources, and has representatives sitting on the board of directors of the eib. i can assure you that cooperation between the commission and the eib is exemplary and excellent. as regards the supervision of the external eu programmes and the related discharge procedures, apart from the eib activities under the aegis of the european development fund, meaning mostly the acp investment facility, which are carried out under the specific edf financial regulation, we are not aware of any other eu budget activity carried out in combination with eib resources which are not subject to the usual discharge procedure. in response to mrs hübner, of course we fully agree with the calls to maximise the potential of the eib by opening new leverages for increasing the potential to offer credits and help smes, especially at this time of post-financial crisis and pressure on credits. therefore, we are also looking for innovative approaches on how to do this. i would just like to remind the house that the eu financial regulation has recently been modified to recognise explicitly this call for innovative instruments. we are already using it, especially in the programmes that are oriented towards financing research and innovation. i am sure that with the experience gathered from this project the innovative financing tools can be used in other areas as well.
president of the eib. - mr president, i thank all the speakers for their comments, although i found one of them particularly wrong. i cannot, of course, in the time allotted to me, answer in detail all the very interesting questions that have been raised. i think that some of them could be examined in more detail in committee. there is, in particular, the important question raised by mrs hübner. if you really want the eib to be able to make a significant contribution to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular by developing joint instruments with the commission, the regulatory framework must of course allow for this. as you are now discussing the new draft financial regulation, i think you must be careful to ensure that the european investment bank will indeed be able to make this contribution. the commission's proposal seems to us to be quite appropriate in this respect. the council and parliament still have to accept the commission's proposal. but then, you have a role to play in the review of financial regulation. i think that a more detailed examination would also be of interest for other issues that have been raised: the question of tax havens, which has caught the attention of mr canfin. i can confirm to him that the european investment bank has a stricter policy in this respect than other international financial institutions, which is why we have recently had to refuse to co-finance certain projects with the african development bank, the world bank or the ebrd because they did not meet the stricter criteria we have in this respect. and i can tell mr canfin that there is no way that we are financing a promoter who is located in a country that is on the oecd blacklist, but i am quite willing to look at this issue in more detail, as well as the issues raised by mr klute, particularly on loans to small and mediumsized enterprises and transparency in this respect. i think there are not many financial institutions which are willing to give as much information on allocations to small and mediumsized enterprises, and i would point out that the number of small and mediumsized enterprises which have actually benefited from the loans provided by the european investment bank to intermediary banks has increased significantly. it was over 60,000 small businesses in 2010. i would like to highlight three features which make the european investment bank a rather unique institution. the first is that, contrary to what has been said by one of you, we do not use taxpayers' money. - to be clear, we do not ask the uk taxpayer for one single cent. we don't use taxpayers' money, we use resources that we take every day from financial markets around the world. and that's why it's essential that we retain the triple a rating. we borrow in asia and the united states, and with the resources thus collected, we can finance projects on good terms. the only budgetary impact is the guarantee given concerning the political risk for the implementation of the external mandate that the council and parliament give us. there is a guarantee which has a provisional cost to the european budget, since 9% of the total loans made on the basis of the external mandate are provisioned - provisioning is made two years after the first disbursement and, of course, this provision is reduced as the repayment proceeds. so, since we do not actually use the guarantee, the cost to the european budget is zero. i'm not going anywhere. so it is clear that we are not an institution that costs the taxpayer. secondly, we are the only financial institution which is truly european. the shareholders of which are all member states and only the member states of the european union. we are the only financial institution that is legally obliged, under the treaty, to financially support the political objectives of the european union. we are the only financial institution that can finance a project only if it has received the european commission's favourable opinion beforehand. and the european commission gives this opinion after an examination by all the departments, by all the directorates-general, of competition and the environment. we are therefore obliged to strictly apply european rules and policies. we are subject to the control of the court of auditors to the extent provided for in the tripartite agreement. we are in constant cooperation with olaf, and i would add that we are on the verge of accepting supervision by the new european banking supervisory authority. in any case, we in the european investment bank would be very happy to be officially subject to some form of banking supervision. we do this indirectly, in particular by involving people with experience in banking supervision in our audit committee. but i would like to confirm once again that we are quite open to proper supervision by this new european authority. and finally, the third feature i would like to stress in conclusion is that the european investment bank is quite unique also in the type of expertise it has developed. we are - and this is rare for a bank - an institution which employs permanently over a hundred engineers, plus a number of specialist consultants. in some areas we have experience, expertise which is recognized. i want to see proof of this that we are called upon to give technical advice on projects which we cannot finance because they are located in a region outside our mandate. so i think it would be a shame not to use that expertise. in some areas, such as urban transport, energy efficiency, the water cycle, sme support, it is clear that the eib has developed a level of expertise that is quite unique. i therefore conclude that it would be a pity not to exploit this potential to the full, and perhaps in a more systematic and structured cooperation with the european parliament. we asked some legitimate questions. we are financing more in turkey simply because our mandate, which was decided jointly by the council and parliament, has given us the mandate to finance more in the applicant countries, which means that we are actually financing proportionately more in turkey and croatia than in other countries. we are here to implement the mandates given to us by the european authorities, in particular by the council and parliament. i therefore think that this would perhaps justify systematic cooperation with the european parliament in a more structured form. (applause) i would like to thank
the reporter. - i would first like to thank all those who have taken part in this constructive debate and i must admit that, despite some criticism, mr president maystadt, all the colleagues who have spoken have recognised the important role that the european investment bank can play in the current context of the economic and financial crisis. it is clear that we need investment, we need sustainable development projects in the european union and that is why i believe that we must implement and consider ambitious ideas and we must not be afraid to come forward and propose such ideas. finally, i would like to stress, as a conclusion, that we must not forget transparency and better communication with all the european bodies. finally, mr president, i think i can say on behalf of my colleagues that you can count on the support of the european parliament in the future.
epidemics such as bluetongue seriously affect livestock farmers, consumers and the european economy in general through animal mortality and trade disruption. restrictions on the movement of animals have a serious impact on the economic resources of the localities or regions where they are imposed. in the case of a preventive vaccination campaign, for example, under current legislative conditions, a restricted area must be maintained even if there has never been a case of bluetongue. the commission's proposed measure is therefore fair and economically advantageous for producers and consumers. at the same time, the measure is in line with the principle of using all scientific progress in agriculture. i also note the important contribution that european funds have made so far to improving the situation with regard to bluetongue epidemics. the union has co-financed important vaccination campaigns with 370 million euro over the last three years, as the commissioner has mentioned. i believe that it should continue to co-finance vaccination programmes in the years ahead, given their effectiveness and the new, much simpler legislative framework we are debating today.
i would like to replace:urges the people of iceland to support this agreement with encourages the people of iceland to support this agreement.
i'd like to substitute in the second amendment. enter into constructive talks with continue the constructive talks.
in writing. − i believe that we must avoid making radical and immediate political decisions on the role of nuclear energy in the medium to long-term energy mix. it's important that we have a clear picture, based on accurate data, of what happened at the fukushima nuclear plant. we must not lose sight of the advantages of nuclear energy, which generates low carbon dioxide emissions, has relatively low costs and ensures energy independence. to date, nuclear energy has been statistically the safest with the lowest casualty rate in accidents compared to other energy sources (e.g. gas, oil). it is also essential to respect member states' decisions to determine the composition of their energy mix. the role of nuclear energy is important for the achievement of the union's objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy and the energy strategy for the current decade.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on nuclear safety in europe which is being called for in the wake of the nuclear accident in japan. the reason for the vote against is the resolution's request to institute a moratorium on the development of new nuclear power plants. i believe that the production of nuclear energy under safe conditions is extremely important. i'm fine with the stress tests. i do not think it is appropriate to impose a moratorium on a period that cannot be determined in time. this period can be very important for power plants that are currently under development, especially in terms of financing. the structure of the energy mix is the responsibility of the member states and therefore i do not think that such a decision can be imposed at community level.
in writing. - i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions on nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan for the following reasons: at least seven of the amendments tabled are scientifically unrealistic; many parts of the text are mere slogans without any real basis, and those who are against nuclear energy do not even offer alternative solutions to its use. last but not least, i regret that the european parliament has not adopted a position on this subject, but such a position, if it is to be adopted, must be balanced, pragmatic, based on scientifically documented facts and realistic solutions.
in writing. − i voted for the european parliament resolution on the lessons to be learned on nuclear safety in europe following the nuclear accident in japan, because its objective is to increase nuclear safety in the eu, and not to ban the production and use of nuclear energy. that is why i voted against all the amendments which aimed to remove nuclear energy from the european energy mix. although i did not vote for a moratorium on the construction of new nuclear reactors, i considered that if such a moratorium were to be introduced, it should be limited to the period of 'stress tests' to which eu nuclear reactors will be subjected. the construction of new reactors would thus benefit from the findings of the stress tests and nuclear safety would increase. today, nuclear energy accounts for 30% of the european energy mix. the achievement of the european union's 20-20-20 target depends to a large extent on the energy mix of the member states. we cannot decide to phase out nuclear power without establishing sustainable sources of energy that can meet the eu's energy demand in the coming years at prices that are affordable to citizens. the eu needs to invest in energy efficiency measures, particularly in the buildings and transport sectors, and in the use of renewable energy.
in writing. − the nuclear crisis in japan set into motion a number of ideas that amount to an irrational tsunami. nuclear energy is now demonised and there is growing pressure demanding a complete switch from nuclear to so-called alternative sources of energy. but this school of thought is bordering on outright superstition. the nuclear reactor of fukushima was hit by an unprecedented combination of catastrophes. this proves that nature is unpredictable and that tsunamis cannot be banned, but it does not prove that nuclear energy is at fault. nuclear energy has a much safer record than any other source of energy. while oil arguably generates exploitation, dependence, wars and dictatorships, nuclear energy is historically much safer. our main concern with nuclear energy should indeed be risk assessment and unitary safety procedures at a european level. with these criteria fulfilled and observed, nuclear energy could put an end or severely limit the politics of energy dependence. and while natural disasters cannot be prevented, nuclear energy is not a serious risk per se. the real danger does not come from well serviced nuclear reactors, but from nuclear reactors under the wrong political control. in other words, look iran, not japan.
in writing. − i believe that the european union must now more than ever promote democratic values and stand with the peoples of the southern mediterranean countries in their aspiration to a democratic society. the situation in the arab countries reminds me of the fall of the communist regimes in central and eastern europe. we have been through similar times and we can understand the demands of these peoples, for which we have a moral duty to show solidarity. the protests that have been taking place in these countries for several weeks are clear evidence that undemocratic regimes do not meet the expectations of the population and that they cannot provide political stability and prosperity for these societies. the high representative and the commission should take a firm stand against the use of violence against protesters and pressure the authorities in syria, yemen and bahrain to engage in constructive political dialogue to resolve the situation. i also believe that the conclusion of the eu-syria association agreement should be conditional on the willingness of the syrian authorities to make democratic reforms. the union has this instrument at its disposal and i believe it should use it as much as possible to support the democratization of the arab countries.
in writing. − bahrain risks becoming the scene of a confrontation between iran and saudi arabia. in this context, we cannot overlook the religious component of developments in the area, as the shiite opposition is supported by iran and the sunni dynasty enjoys the support of the monarchies in the region. also, the close relations between iran, syria, hamas and hezbollah, as well as the religious tensions between sunnis and alawites in syria should urge us to be cautious, because there is a huge risk that the escalation of violence will push syria into a civil war, too, with foreign interference. the massacre of hama in 1982, in which 20,000 syrians were killed, is a tragic warning in this regard, as are the failures in somalia, afghanistan and iraq in terms of how the west must act in a space whose very pronounced particularities cannot be overlooked. i think we need more diplomacy and less armed force, more concern for the defense of human rights and the protection of civilians and less concern for the electoral potential of foreign intervention, and more attention to the poverty and corruption that these societies, especially the yemeni one, are facing.
in writing. − the situation in syria, bahrain and yemen is an unpredictable ongoing process and not a bloody but unstoppable march toward democracy. the political background in syria and yemen has been for a long time authoritarian or outright dictatorial. yet this is not making the opposition a fully democratic alternative. especially in yemen, a lawless, fragmented polity, the forces gathering under the opposition umbrella are hosting or could give way to terrorist or radical anti-democratic forces. in the past, ‘stability’ in the foreign policy for the middle east was a substitute for inaction or the status quo. it was certainly an overrated concept. now it could become underrated. the european and largely the democratic interest would be better served by a rational, non-emotional approach. the need for democracy in countries with a long record of political oppression should not become the undoing of future democratic process. this does not mean that the assad or saleh regimes should be propped up, but it means that the solution should be a negotiated exit strategy rather than a violent and uncontrolled regime change. caution and clear headed policies are much more appropriate in countries and regions that could turn from one system of oppression to another.
in writing. − having focused on principles in previous conferences, i express my hope that the fourth un conference will be results-oriented, formulating clear indicators to halve the number of least developed countries by 2020. of the 51 ldcs, where 78 percent of the population lives on less than $1.25 a day, only three have exceeded that threshold in recent years. the situation is worrying, as these countries are the most vulnerable to shocks such as financial and food crises, climate change, and also face extreme poverty, lack of infrastructure and rising unemployment. this shows that the international community has unfortunately not fulfilled the commitments made in the brussels action programme. i hope that at the conference, where i will be representing the socialist group, we will focus on policy coherence for development and ways of implementing innovative financing mechanisms to help these countries more effectively, which must be encouraged to implement appropriate policies.
in writing. − i voted for the 2010 country report on iceland, drawn up by my colleague cristian preda, because i believe that the time has come to assess the european prospects of this country. the icelandic authorities have demonstrated a real commitment to this process and a strong political will to fulfil all the accession criteria in a timely manner throughout the negotiations with the eu. first, iceland has a long democratic tradition. the protection of human rights and cooperation with relevant international organisations are high on the icelandic political agenda. in economic terms, the authorities have already drawn up a pre-accession strategy to ensure diversification of sectors of activity and exit from the recession. i consider that iceland has the capacity to assume the obligations arising from its membership of the eu. i would remind you that the conditions for 10 chapters of negotiations are now met. in this context, i welcome the european commission's initiative to open accession negotiations with iceland in june this year.
in writing. − i voted for the 2010 country report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because i believe that the european perspective of the balkans is essential for the stabilisation of the region. in this context, cooperation with greece is very important. the dispute over the name of the former yugoslav republic is at the heart of the discussions on the accession negotiations, and is one of the obstacles to the opening of negotiations. good neighbourly relations are essential in the process of transition to eu membership. therefore, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and greece must find a solution to the state name issue. the commission has also been able to provide a number of additional information to the greek authorities. it is time for the two countries to reach a consensus so that future accession negotiations can be conducted with the support of all eu member states. in this regard, the use of neutral external mediators, such as the intervention of the un secretary-general in the dispute, may be useful.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution in order to acknowledge macedonia’s progress towards european integration and highlight the remaining goals to be achieved for the benefit of its people. it is essential to send macedonia a positive signal regarding its future within the european union in order to maintain the european momentum and further the political dialogue that has been initiated. the name issue existing between macedonia and greece is exclusively a bilateral issue that should not interfere with the opening of accession negotiations. moreover, under the 13 september 1995 interim accord between greece and macedonia, greece agreed not to object to the application of macedonia to international institutions, this covering also the eu-macedonia negotiations process. in the committee on foreign affairs, i contributed amendments concerning the public administration, the justice system and anti-corruption action. the adoption of a national strategy for public administration reform and the creation of the stabilisation and association agreement’s subcommittee are positive steps to ensure the capacities and professionalism of the public administration. i stress that the unification of jurisprudence and publishing of all court decisions are highly important for predictability of the judiciary and public trust in the system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the commission and council initiative to review the european neighbourhood policy - the eastern dimension. this policy has worked because of its flexibility and now needs to adapt to the new realities in the european region. this is why better adjustment to the specificities of each country included in the programme is needed. i believe that it is not the geographical location but the commitment of the partner countries that should play the most important role. but the people are at the heart of reforms in a state. the east and the south must have the same chances, and a rebalancing of the neighbourhood policy is needed. the former soviet states also need cooperation with the eu, something that joe biden also advocated during his recent visit to chisinau. i would like to point out that the republic of moldova is the leader of reforms in the eastern partnership.
in writing. − the commission's reports on the enp provide a picture of the real benefits of good neighbourliness policy, but also of the challenges. a review of the enp is needed and a different approach to how the union responds to the progress made by neighbouring countries in socio-economic reforms, by providing financial and political support and by adapting to the specific needs of each country. the eastern partnership provides a political framework for strengthening relations between the eu and its eastern neighbours and for pursuing socio-economic reforms in partner countries. an assessment of the progress made by each country is required by means of a benchmarking based on pre-established criteria, but not without taking into account the particularities of each country. a european perspective, including article 49 of the treaty, is a driving force behind reforms in these countries. parliament has an important role to play both in setting the evaluation criteria and in strengthening freedom and democracy in the neighbouring partner countries.
in writing. − i have always encouraged the eastern neighbourhood policy of the european union and this can be seen from my previous activities. i endorse the review of the european neighbourhood policy, mainly because it is needed to make a substantial contribution to ensuring that human rights and political principles are more strongly integrated into the analysis of the political situation in third countries. it underlines the positive developments concerning human rights and democratisation in some partner countries and some negative developments in others, particularly in belarus. i also found important the fact that it pays particular attention to the mobility of students, academics, researchers and businessmen by ensuring that sufficient resources are available and by strengthening existing scholarship programmes. for all these reasons i support the review of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − the revision of the neighbourhood policy must continue to ensure that the specific problems faced by the regions on the european union's border are addressed. i believe that it takes significant administrative capacity to be able to manage such a diverse range of issues. in addition to demographic challenges, climate change, economic competitiveness and quality of life, regions bordering non-member states face a number of consequences of poorly managed problems. this is the case with how natural disasters are managed, for example. emergency response is extremely difficult if neighbours do not have the capacity to respond and the region itself cannot respond to the whole situation. i have therefore proposed that eu border regions which border at least 2 non-eu countries should be considered platform regions and supported accordingly. neighbourhood policy needs to take into account the capacity of regions within the eu but with external borders to deal with problems that are much more complex, and financial support needs to be tailored.
the author. - more than a year ago, we were talking in this room about the imprisonment of liu xiabo, and now we're talking about a second signatory of charter 08 who was detained by the chinese authorities. as mentioned earlier, ai weiwei is not only a well-known artist but also one of the most prominent critics of the communist regime. he was arrested on sunday and there is no prospect of his release, and we have seen that today the chinese authorities claimed that it was economic and not political, which is clearly a blatant lie. as is well known, ai weiwei was prevented from attending the nobel prize ceremony and his arrest is part of a wider crackdown on human rights defenders. we have included in our resolution a whole series of people that i think mrs ashton should speak about whenever she has the opportunity and i think that, more generally, we need a reassessment of the human rights dialogue.
on behalf of the epp group. the ban by the nepalese authorities on holding elections for a tibetan government in exile calls into question the human rights situation in the country. i would like to point out that members of the tibetan community have organized this process in order to democratize their institutions. such an initiative should be facilitated wherever it takes place. now is the time for nepal to demonstrate that its democracy is functional both internally and internationally; this is all the more so as the votes cast can be sent to the central electoral commission by april 15th to be validated. i call on the government of nepal to take this opportunity to restore the fundamental rights situation in its territory. this is important to ensure an effective neighbourhood policy.
under pressure from the chinese government, the nepalese authorities prevented some 20,000 tibetans in nepal from voting in the election for the prime minister of the tibetan government in exile. the right to vote, the right to free elections and the right to peaceful demonstration are fundamental to individuals and communities. the more obstacles there are to the exercise of these rights, the more people are willing to exercise them. i am convinced that the desire of the tibetan people in nepal to elect their leader of the government in exile is even greater, and the attempts of the nepalese and chinese authorities to rule them through fear have the exact opposite result. i ask the high representative of the european union to make these demands and the approach of the european parliament clear in his dialogue with the nepalese and chinese authorities.
let me start by saying that whenever i hear about robert mugabe, i see nicolae ceausescu, the romanian dictator, in front of me. indeed, in the 1980s, alongside gaddafi, mugabe was one of ceausescu's regular guests and i am grateful to mr van orden for mentioning the connection between mugabe and gaddafi respectively. besides, i think mugabe learned something from ceausescu, which is hatred for civil society activists. the 46 members of civil society who were arrested on february 19 by zimbabwean security forces are currently facing charges of treason and the risk they are taking at this time is that they will be sentenced to death. that's the punishment and the only "guilt" they have is that they discussed what happened in egypt and tunisia. the solution to the mugabe regime is basically a free and fair election. let's hope this time it's possible.
as a member of the delegation for relations with the pan-african parliament, i strongly believe that the european union and, in particular, mrs ashton should take a firm stand against the mugabe regime's acts of intimidation and harassment against human rights activists and encourage respect for public rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression and assembly, as zimbabwe has formally committed itself to internationally. zimbabwe must respect its international commitments, including the african charter on human and peoples' rights, by repealing all national laws that are contrary to international human rights protections. i also sincerely believe that the countries in the region and, first and foremost, south africa could get involved in supporting the return to democracy and respect for human rights in zimbabwe.
the current events in zimbabwe are a wake-up call for the human rights situation on the african continent. in the run-up to the june elections, president mugabe is waging a campaign of intimidation against his opponents. hundreds of government officials, human rights activists and opponents of the regime have been arrested in the past two months. this situation cannot be tolerated. moreover, the drafting of a democratic constitution was delayed by mugabe for a year. the new fundamental law would have guaranteed the conduct of elections in conditions of transparency. i stress that the economic situation of the country is deeply affected. the president is pushing for the nationalization of the mining sector, zimbabwe's main economic sector. such a measure is abusive, as it was foreign investment in this sector that stabilised the state in the aftermath of the economic crisis.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think we would all agree that zimbabwe and its human rights violations have been on our agenda for far too long. every glimpse of hope of some positive development is immediately crushed by outbursts of political repression and violence. this is exactly what happened again just a couple of months ago. the european union therefore had to proceed to renew its restrictive measures, for the eighth time, in february this year. by this clear gesture, we wanted to underline the critical importance of an agreement between the government parties on the necessary steps leading to elections in the country. in this context, the eu emphasised its willingness to revise its decision in response to further concrete developments on the ground. the eu is deeply concerned at the upsurge in political violence seen in recent months in zimbabwe. on 11 march, together with 21 embassies and representations, the eu issued a statement to express its concerns over the increase in what appears to be politically-motivated intimidation and violence. in this context, the eu welcomes the outcome of the recent sadc summit on 31 march 2011. the sadc communiqué calls for an immediate end to violence, intimidation, hate speech and harassment and calls upon the government of zimbabwe to complete all necessary steps to hold an election. it offers assistance so that elections can be organised in accordance with sadc principles and guidelines governing democratic elections. for that reason, the sadc will appoint officials to join the south african facilitation team and work with the joint monitoring and implementation committee. the eu believes that strengthened facilitation and mediation efforts by sadc and south africa are key to preventing further instability in zimbabwe. the eu welcomes the region’s efforts to mediate in the zimbabwean crisis. south africa, in its capacity as facilitator, together with the sadc, as guarantor of the global political agreement, has decided to accredit the zimbabwean ambassador. at this point in time, keeping a formal channel of communication open with zimbabwe and maintaining a dialogue with the inclusive government is vital, and we should not jeopardise the position of the eu ambassador in harare. the eu will act and proceed in close coordination with all eu member states. the eu remains the largest provider of development assistance to zimbabwe. we want to clearly express that we are tough on the regime, but we try to assist the people. with the disbursement of approximately 365 million since the establishment of the global political agreement in 2009, we are – as i said – the largest donor. resources are only channelled through un bodies and specialised ngos. since 2009, the eu has also supported governance reforms, as stipulated in the global political agreement, including the constitutional reform process. the eu also funds human rights programmes, including programmes from human rights defenders. we just have to hope that all the international pressure will finally lead to free and fair elections in zimbabwe and to the gradual normalisation of the very difficult situation in this country.
in writing. we see once again that mugabe's weapons against his political opponents and civil society are intimidation, arrest, violence and even torture. forces loyal to mugabe have intimidated opposition ministers in the national unity government, harassed leaders of human rights organisations, arrested 46 civil society representatives on treason charges, some of whom were beaten and even tortured in custody. nothing lasting can be built on fear and terror or against civil and political freedoms. i call on the high representative of the european union to support efforts to ensure that elections in zimbabwe are free from violence and intimidation. what is needed is a legitimate government that respects fundamental rights and freedoms, that is, that respects the human person. the intensification of the union's restrictions on mugabe's people must be one of the measures.
we have to be aware that oil prices will remain high and that we will never go back to the $30 to $40 a barrel. the era of cheap oil is over. for 2011, at least, the average will still be $80 to $100 a barrel. under these circumstances, the negative impact on the economy is expected to continue. in the fisheries sector, new measures are needed, especially as european fishermen face strong international competition. in many regions, fishing is the only viable economic activity and is important for maintaining employment. as we have seen, high oil prices are still to be expected, and this economic situation primarily affects those involved in small-scale fishing. an important question in this context is: what is the future of the common fisheries policy and what is the future of the european fisheries fund? if this fund is underused, it means that it needs to be analysed and reformed.
the decision discussed today establishes the first european programme for radio spectrum policy. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations necessary for the operation of the european space station and the related technical equipment, including the replacement of equipment and installations, and the replacement of equipment and installations for the maintenance of the space station and the replacement of equipment and installations for the maintenance of the space station. in practice, the programme will facilitate ensuring availability and maximising flexibility of spectrum, increasing efficiency of spectrum use through general authorisations, avoiding distortion of competition and harmful interference and disturbance, harmonising technical conditions and ensuring health protection. according to the decision, the commission together with the member states will carry out an inventory of existing spectrum uses and possible future spectrum needs in the union, in particular in the 300 mhz-3 ghz band. in the amendments tabled, we called for the digital divide to be closed so that all union citizens have access to broadband communications infrastructure of at least 30mbps by 2020 and for opportunities to be guaranteed for both the commercial sector and public services through increased broadband capacity. i also called for new equipment and technologies to be accessible to consumers so that the shift to digital technology and the effective use of the digital dividend is supported by consumers. i welcome the importance attached to ensuring the availability of the radio spectrum needed for monitoring the atmosphere and the earth's surface, enabling the development and exploitation of space applications, and the improvement of transport systems, in particular for the galileo system, the gms system and intelligent transport safety and management systems.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, today we are discussing a legislative proposal for emergency autonomous trade preferences for pakistan. this proposal was tabled by the commission at the express request of the european council in the immediate aftermath of the floods that hit pakistan in the summer of last year and brought widespread devastation to the country and to its people. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on international trade for their hard work and their support for the proposal. the commission proposal aims at the introduction of a unilateral and temporary suspension of import duties on 75 export items from pakistan. these trade preferences would liberalise about a quarter of pakistani imports to the eu and be available for two years, with a possible extension for another year. the european union is aware that such trade concessions, especially in sensitive sectors such as textiles, might have an impact on eu industry, and therefore we have ensured that a balance is kept between the needs of pakistan and the interests of our own industry and other supplier countries. the number of products selected is limited. we have set a ceiling on the liberalisation of very sensitive items, and liberalisation would only be of limited duration. in the meantime we have also requested the world trade organisation to grant us a waiver of the applicable wto rules to enable us to implement the proposed measures. as you know, we are still discussing this issue with other wto members and hope to come to a solution soon. the images of people having lost their livelihoods might not be present any more in everyone’s mind, but we should not forget the immense cost of those devastating floods, both in terms of humanitarian needs and economic devastation. these trade measures are not ‘stand-alone’, and come on top of the significant humanitarian and development assistance – amounting to eur 480 million – that the eu has granted to pakistan. however, ambitious trade measures are essential for the sustained economic recovery of pakistan’s economy and should be part of our medium-term response to those unprecedented natural disasters. i therefore hope that parliament will support the proposal. let me now turn to some of the amendments that have been proposed. i will not go into detail on all of them, but let me highlight the most important ones. i know that there are requests for making the granting of autonomous trade preferences conditional upon pakistan respecting certain fundamental principles. i understand the concerns that may exist in that respect, and you are aware that human rights issues are an integral element of our long-term relationship with pakistan. however, given the temporary nature of the waiver to address an emergency situation, the commission believes those conditionalities would not be appropriate. our human rights dialogue, in the context of our partnership and cooperation agreement with pakistan, is the appropriate forum to address such issues with pakistan and reach sustainable solutions. as regards provisions that would oblige pakistan to abstain from maintaining, introducing or increasing duties or charges having equivalent effect, or any other restriction on the export or import of certain products, i believe that such conditions would seriously undermine the granting of the preferences and are contrary to the spirit, the nature and the purpose of our regulation. moreover, we cannot prohibit pakistan, through this regulation, from implementing measures that are consistent with its international obligations. on the other hand, we could agree to the introduction of a mechanism allowing the imposition of limits to duty-free imports for pakistan tariff rate quotas where volumes of imports of products liberalised increase beyond certain levels. i also agree that preferences should be removed for any product causing or threatening to cause serious difficulties to a union producer of like or directly competing products, as determined by an investigation carried out by the commission. we could also agree with mechanisms to establish customs surveillance on imports covered by the regulation, linked with quarterly reporting. however, a prior surveillance mechanism would create an undue burden in terms of administrations’ licensing requirements. i note, finally, that there are requests to limit the duration of the trade preferences to one year from the date on which the waiver takes effect. i think that would be very problematic. the commission initially proposed applying exceptional measures for a period of three years. in its compromise proposal, which was reflected in the wto waiver request, the council limited the duration to two years, with the possibility of extending it by one more year. however, to limit the duration even further to one year would erode the advantages of the autonomous trade preferences measure, and they would become meaningless. let me also point out that a compromise reached in the council on 10 november was based on subjecting seven textile and clothing products to tariff rate quotas rather than full liberalisation. this compromise became the basis for the subsequent request for a wto waiver. however this is not reflected in the european parliament amendments, and as a result of the consultation with wto members it might be necessary to subject a few more products to tariff rate quotas. the waiver, if granted, would constitute a maximum of preferences the eu could grant to pakistan on those terms and, as a consequence, the regulation will have to reflect the content of the wto waiver once it is agreed in the wto. let me also reassure you that the commission will conduct an annual impact assessment on the autonomous trade preferences granted to pakistan and present it to parliament and the council, and that is another reason not to reduce the duration of application of this instrument. i thank the european parliament for its cooperation on this sensitive issue. the commission stands ready to work closely with parliament in order to have this proposal adopted and show the eu’s determination to act responsibly towards countries in need.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - i think it's appropriate that we discuss this moreira report. why would you do that? because we are currently waiting for a decision on the derogation requested by the european union to the world trade organization on the very subject under discussion. for my part, i think it is important in this context to send a clear message to the other trading partners of the union: the union must remain committed to complementing the generous emergency humanitarian aid it has initially provided to pakistan with trade measures aimed at a sustainable economic recovery. the diplomatic consultations at the world trade organisation certainly require time, because the concerns of the union's trading partners must be taken into account. the outcome of these consultations is currently uncertain, but as recent events have reminded us, what is clear is that we need a stable and prosperous pakistan that does not slide into extremism and that can be a partner in the fight against terrorism. as an opinion rapporteur in afet, i would like to thank my colleagues in inta for taking up the main elements that i developed in the opinion. i shall stress two such elements here. the first, and perhaps the most important for the afet commission, was the need not to decouple conditionality linked to respect for human rights, including basic labour law standards, from the granting of trade preferences. i think we have a difference of opinion here. as human rights are an essential element of the agreement linking the union to pakistan, the proposed autonomous trade preferences must be conditional on respect for human rights in that country. on the other hand, a full impact assessment of the proposed measures was not carried out in advance by the commission. i think it would have been important, in particular, the effect on the population of pakistan and the effect on the budgetary resources of that country.
as some of our colleagues have said, you have noticed that they argue that granting special trade preferences to pakistan would not be a suitable solution to help the flood victims, because they do not consider trade to be a suitable tool to respond to such emergencies. i agree, trade preferences may not directly help the people who suffered from the floods, but by complementing humanitarian aid measures, we can help pakistan's economic recovery. and international trade and humanitarian aid are not two completely opposite fields. there is virtually complementarity between all the policies of the european union, and when we give trade preferences to developing countries, we do not do so for purely pragmatic, commercial reasons, but to show solidarity with these countries.
the free trade agreement with india will become the most important agreement of its kind if the negotiations are concluded in a satisfactory manner for both sides. the european union is india's largest trading partner, and the gsp is one of the eu's instruments for promoting india's economic development. although india has an emerging economy, social inequalities persist. more than 800 million people live on less than two dollars a day. india's efforts to build a strong economy must be matched by the political will to improve the human rights, social and environmental situation. the european commission must therefore advocate in the negotiations for the introduction of legally binding clauses in these areas. india can be not only an economic example for the rest of the developing world, but also a model of democratization.
india is a country on the rise, with enviable economic growth and one of our most important trading partners. the free trade agreement with india is extremely important for the future of our trade relations, which is why i am in favour of concluding this agreement as soon as possible. an important aspect is the liberalisation of services, especially in modes 3 and 4. services are particularly important for economic growth, both in india and in the european union, and this needs to be reflected in the free trade agreement. as regards module 4, the problems of recognition of professional qualifications need to be solved, which is, however, a rather difficult matter, given that we have problems of mutual recognition of professional qualifications even between the member states of the european union. i would ask the commission to tell us what the state of play is on this subject. the second aspect is related to reciprocity in access to public procurement markets. access for european companies to the public procurement markets in india can help our businesses develop. and there is a need for india to develop and implement transparent and clear rules on public procurement and to allow european companies access to it.
as a member of the eu-india delegation, i am in favour of a free trade agreement between the eu and india. india is an important developing country and an important trading partner of the european union. however, it is important to know in detail what the content of this agreement will be. i would remind you that the european parliament will ratify this agreement and we therefore ask to be kept informed of the state of the negotiations. i would like to ask the commission how this agreement will reflect both the future industrial policy of the european union and the industrial policy of india? particular attention should be paid to the respect and protection of intellectual property rights and patents. last but not least, i would like to know whether this agreement will ensure a convergence of the positions of the european union and india on the fight against climate change and the reduction of polluting emissions.
the european union and japan account for 35% of the world's gdp. i believe that a free trade agreement between these two economic powers could bring benefits to both, but it first needs to remove the underlying difficulties and, in practice, prepare the way for a truly mutually beneficial agreement. the japanese market is currently subject to barriers, as my colleagues have said, non-tariff barriers which restrict access to imports, affecting trade and investment as a whole. in the negotiations led by the european commission, it should seek to promote a more transparent regulatory policy, which would enable european companies to fully understand the rules for doing business with japanese partners, as well as liberalizing access to public procurement. finally, i believe that an impact study should be carried out to analyse the effects of a possible agreement, particularly in the area of vulnerable european industries such as the automotive, electronics and aerospace industries.
since 2009, trade policy has become an exclusive competence of the european union, and for foreign investment policy, for a significant part of it, we now need to find a common denominator. there will thus be a transitional period during which the competences relating to bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries will be transferred to the european level. in this context, i consider that the adoption of a community-type procedure for the verification and review of bilateral investment agreements is preferable to an intergovernmental formality. the role of bringing the changes to fruition must be that of the european commission, not the member states, in order to ensure that the common interest is protected. the european executive must therefore guarantee both legal certainty for investors who will be affected by the transitional process and equivalent investment conditions for companies from all eu member states.
the investment policy of the member states must be harmonised at european level as part of the common commercial policy. member states should ensure that bilateral investment treaties are compatible with union development policies. the commission must gradually replace existing agreements with new ones that provide an optimal system of investment protection. due to the risky nature of foreign direct investments, it is necessary to ensure a high level of legal certainty during the transition period. in this respect, i welcome the commission's and the rapporteur's approach based on coexistence. it is essential that bilateral treaties remain in force and that member states are able to conclude or open new negotiations. finally, i support the establishment of a timetable with a deadline for the transition from the bilateral treaties of the member states to the eu's international treaties.
it is well known that where the international monetary fund commissioners have passed, there have been great popular uprisings. today, these gauls are imposing an aberrant agreement on romania, under which of the 400 existing hospitals in the country, between 150 and 200 will be liquidated. so far, 71 hospitals have been closed and innocent people have died. the pretext is embarrassing. they say these hospitals are not profitable, but nowhere in the world do hospitals make money, the benefits they bring are of a different nature. that's why, alarmed by this genocide, i filed a criminal complaint against the imf representative in romania, jeffrey franks, as well as the indigenous axe tails. i call on the european parliament and the world health organization to take action to prevent the transformation of a european union member state into an extermination camp. today, big finance trying to establish a new world order is exterminating us, but tomorrow it might exterminate you. i'm hoping the imf doesn't want to take the place of al-qaeda.
we, the members of the romanian hungarian national community, imagine a future europe of regions and communities, in which roma communities will also find a home. on europe day, the president of parliament said: 'let us not retreat into our inner circles, but face the challenges together.' i have been following with concern the conflicts in transylvania, where small local communities are turning inward, under the influence of tension, harassment or fear, to the exclusion of the communities they live with. in a european region, it is clear that the future of the roma community lies not in short-sighted measures but in forward-looking european action based on solidarity and dialogue. the roma integration strategy being developed under the hungarian presidency can create the europe of the future for roma communities as well. the commission, parliament, the member states, the competent authorities and all the local communities concerned, all of us have a responsibility to make this a reality.
the healthcare reform proposed by the current government in romania continues the line of anti-reforms that are slowly but surely leading this country to a real social disaster. through so-called health reform, the boc government in bucharest is seeking to close hospitals, reduce investment in medical equipment, put thousands of nurses and doctors out of work, drastic measures applied to a health system that already suffers from a chronic lack of resources. romania ranks last in europe in terms of the quality and quantity of health services. the further reduction of health services is a serious attack on people's lives and integrity. the pseudo-reform proposed by the boc-led government is a direct attack on the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. on behalf of the romanian citizens, i ask the european commission to take a stand and block these inhumane measures that endanger their lives, their fundamental rights.
the european union is a global community of citizens, and we are all members of it. in his declaration of 9 may 1950, robert schuman, the french foreign minister, pointed out that europe would not be built all at once or according to a single plan, but through concrete achievements which would first of all generate a de facto solidarity. the schuman plan aimed to merge markets, modernize and expand coal and steel production, and level and improve the living standards of workers in these industries. today, member states are facing economic, financial and social crises and solidarity and respect for the union's fundamental principles are needed more than ever. call for the removal of barriers to the free movement of workers from romania and bulgaria. i also call on the member states to support a new industrial policy and a new innovation policy capable of creating jobs that guarantee a decent living for european citizens.
this report is intended to re-launch the debate on forest protection at european level. both forest protection and information work are based on cooperation between the european institutions and the authorities of the member states. i would like to draw attention to article 23 of the report on combating illegal logging. i would remind you that the implementation of sustainable forest management is essential for the conservation of biodiversity in europe. completing this process requires additional financial resources and the removal of legislative barriers. research on climate change needs to be encouraged, especially in the context of multinational projects. i also welcome the initiative to organise training programmes for employees.
, in writing. i was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development for this report and i tried to highlight the close link between forests and rural communities, through the economic and social role of forests as an important source of income and also their role in agricultural production. i consider it important that the forest should be included in the future common agricultural policy. as european forestry action is currently mainly taking place through the second pillar of the cap - rural development - it must be maintained as a strong and effective instrument and funding must continue at an appropriate level in the post-2013 cap programmes. support for the establishment of forest plantations must be maintained within these programmes. forests are also an important provider of public services that are not remunerated by the market. that is why i think that a flat-rate payment should be made available to forest owners. the role of forests in the eu's energy strategy is another important point, because their potential as renewable energy sources is currently under-exploited.
, in writing. – european forests are major contributors to climate change mitigation and the adaptation of european societies through the continuation of their economic, social and environmental functions. therefore eu forest-related instruments need to be updated to address new threats to their sustainable management and conservation. it’s underlined the central role of sustainable forest management (sfm) and the importance of forests for competitiveness and employment, in order to achieve eu’s climate targets and deliver necessary ecosystem services such as biodiversity conservation, protection against natural disasters and co2 capturing. requests for: 1.reporting through national forest programmes to be enhanced and sfm to be better implemented throughout the european union. 2.the immediate adoption of legislation on forest fire prevention as well as on forest information taking into account climate threats and the need for collection and dissemination of comparable data. moreover it calls for a white paper on forest protection, addressing financial resources, knowledge exchange and promotion of research. 3.there is recognition of the importance of forests for rural development and the need to remove obstacles to funding for forestry and biodiversity. a call for access to funding of the relevant measures for public bodies and rural producers has been agreed upon.
on behalf of the s&d group. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for this very good report and the very good cooperation we had in producing it. i would also like to thank the commission for the dialogue we have been able to have, because this discharge report is not just an annual discharge report, but sets out new lines of cooperation for the next period. i'd like to address three themes that i think are very important. first of all, i would like to talk about those national management statements, national management statements that should show how european money is being used. over 80% of the european union's budget is managed at national level, but almost all the responsibility for managing this money is at community level. national management declarations would be very helpful in seeing how european money is used by national authorities and who is responsible for the use of this money. it's very important that a minister takes on this responsibility, that there's a signature of the political decision-maker on these national management statements. secondly, i want to address the issue of the systematic blocking of european funds when european money is being mismanaged or when there are signs that this money is being mismanaged. it is very important to act quickly when the mechanisms for managing and implementing european money do not work very well. thirdly, we are talking about taxpayers' money, european citizens' money, so it is very important that the recovery, when we talk about fraud in the use of european money, be much more efficient and that this recovery does not come from the pocket of the european citizen. it is money that european citizens give to the european union. when they are defrauded, it is the european citizens who pay for the damage. it's not fair. european citizens are being doubly harmed and this must be remedied quickly.
madam president, the first issue i want to discuss is that of our concerns about the functioning of the european agencies. these are areas of concern in which we need to make changes in the future in order to prevent and avoid bad management, irregularities, fraud, conflicts of interest and, at the end of the day, bad expenditure. one of our concerns is institutional transparency. all the eu agencies should make available on their websites a list of all contracts awarded over the previous three years at least, and the commission should undertake to integrate this information into its financial transparency system. transparency is also needed with regard to the rotation of staff between agencies, and i have asked for an overview of all staff members who change working place from one agency to another. a second area of concern is conflicts of interest, and many of my colleagues have referred to this already. proper management of current and potential conflicts of interest in the eu agencies requires a major effort, and cases such as that involving the european medicines agency must be prevented and avoided, and penalised wherever they occur. the third area of concern is rationality and efficiency in the functioning of the eu agencies, especially at a time of financial crisis. i propose discussing and finalising a merger of cepol into europol, as this would be the best solution to cepol’s structural and chronic problems. moreover, it is undeniable, beyond the cepol case, that a number of eu agencies with common fields of intervention are performing similar or complementary activities from headquarters located all over europe. the commission should therefore evaluate the possibility of merging agencies with overlapping or complementary activities. the second issue i would like to address very quickly is the fact that we decided to postpone the discharge, and will vote to postpone the discharge, for two agencies – cepol and ema. there have been serious violations in terms of public procurement, recruitment and conflicts of interest and also, with regard to cepol, appropriations and the cancellation of appropriations. the last issue i would like to refer to is the transparency of eu beneficiary funds. i have been questioning the commission about this for a year and i will continue to do so. we need transparency in all eu beneficiary funds, and i would draw attention here to the national companies which benefit from and use such funds. there must be a single website, in one or two languages, with common criteria, on which all these beneficiaries can be identified and compared.
in writing. − i support the report of georgios stavrakakis on the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies because mainly it stresses the need to encourage the agencies to develop, and then regularly update, a comprehensive situation outlining their financial circuits and the responsibilities of the financial and operational actors. in addition, it reminds the agencies of the importance of fully guaranteeing the independence of their staff and experts. it argues, overall, for a more constructive and transparent process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report ‘2009 discharge: performance, financial management and control of eu agencies’ in order to acknowledge that the functioning of all eu agencies needs to be further improved. the discharge procedure for the financial year 2009 revealed that immediate actions are required with regard to transparency and efficiency. for transparency in eu agencies to be improved, all 21 agencies and the commission must publish a list of all contracts awarded over the last three years as well as a report of the staff members changing jobs from one agency to another, and they must enact stricter rules regarding conflicts of interest as soon as possible. moreover, for the future discharge procedures, the director of each eu agency should make available to parliament its report from the internal audit service. to enhance greater efficiency in the functioning and expenditure of the eu agencies, genuine consideration must be given to the possibility of merging governing boards for agencies working in related fields. furthermore, the commission should deliver an assessment of the feasibility of merging eu agencies with overlapping activities.
in writing. − the report on the 2009 discharge for the european police college provided for the postponement of the discharge. i voted in favour of this report in order to acknowledge the structural problems that the college has been facing for many years now. for the financial year 2009, almost half of the money carried over to 2009 was not spent, and 43% of the 2009 budget was carried over to 2010. the european court of auditors stated that implementation of the college’s budget is hampered by severe and recurrent weaknesses in its programming and monitoring. moreover, serious and repeated violations of public procurement rules were identified: five procurement procedures – worth a total of eur 455 111 – failed to comply with the rules. transparency also remains a matter of concern, since irregularities continue to affect staff selection. likewise, i consider unacceptable the lack of investigation of the former director in relation to his responsibilities concerning college appropriations that have been used to finance private expenditure. therefore, i advocate the merger of the college into europol as the best way of achieving greater efficiency in expenditure and tackling the college’s structural and chronic problems.
in writing. − the responsibility for public statements made by members of the european parliament lies primarily with the authors. parliament's intervention in analysing the context, the timing or whether the author of the public statement was entitled to do so is exceptional, but equally binding when the author of the statement is held accountable for the content of the idea expressed. one such exceptional case, but one which the european parliament had a duty to examine, is that of luigi de magistris, a member of the european parliament, who was sued by the courts of his country in connection with an interview he gave to an italian newspaper as a member of a political party represented in the european structures. beyond the formulation of the statement or its implications for domestic politics, the right of a member of the european parliament to express himself must be recognised as his freedom and protected accordingly. like luigi de magistris, any other member of the european parliament enjoys immunity from investigation or detention for expressing opinions or voting. in this respect, any attempt to prevent members of the european parliament from expressing their views on matters of public interest cannot be approved in a democratic society.
in writing. − last year the commission and the other eu institutions reflected on the fact that we have not met our biodiversity targets. this is a deeply regrettable situation which must be changed, quickly and effectively, in order to protect biodiversity and the invaluable eco-services it provides us with. cooperation with third countries is to be encouraged as much as possible, as this is also a global problem, so this agreement is to be warmly welcomed.
in writing. − illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is one of the main threats to the resources of the fisheries market, where the european union is a major player internationally. the development of a common european fisheries policy to protect the sustainable exploitation of living aquatic resources is therefore a natural concern. the agreement proposed for adoption by the council is designed to meet this international requirement to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing by means of effective measures by the port state. measures which, upon adoption of the agreement, should evolve from an optional model to a package of mandatory minimum standards for port states for the monitoring, control and inspection of foreign flagged fishing vessels using ports. the fact that the set of measures, the implementation of which falls under the responsibility of the port states, is, however, developed by an international instrument is a plus. the global view of the phenomenon of iuu fishing can lead to better monitoring of fishing activities at the level of the whole and is more cost-effective in terms of organisation and implementation.
in writing. − port state measures are an important tool in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. iuu fishing is an international criminal activity which is damaging our marine ecosystems, threatening our food security, and ruining the livelihoods of those in the legitimate fishing industry. but our action against iuu fishing must not only comprise port state measures; we must also campaign to end the use of ‘flags of convenience’, which often allow vessels to operate illegally and with impunity. a global registry of fishing vessels could also be an important step, as could traceability of fishery products.
in writing. − this report is important in the context of the expansion of the single market for crossborder lending. it is currently partially blocked because of the reluctance of creditors in one member state to grant loans to debtors resident in another member state. a concrete example is where a resident of one member state wants to take out a mortgage loan from a bank resident in another member state. this is currently not possible, which in effect results in the non-existence of a consumer's right to buy products (banking, in this case) in any eu member state. the reason why a bank only grants mortgage loans to residents of the same country (even if the bank - a multinational bank - has a presence in several member states, in the form of subsidiaries or branches) is that, in the event of default, the bank is obliged to follow a forced execution procedure according to the lex rei sitae (the law of the country where the property on which the mortgage was established by the lending bank is located) and not the law of the country where the creditor is established. if a 28th regime were to be established, according to this report, this would facilitate cross-border credit-based transactions.
in writing. − in the eu, many companies do business within the internal market and european citizens enjoy the right to settle, work and travel freely within the eu. as i also stressed when we discussed the single market act, in order to deepen the internal market and promote crossborder transactions, including electronic commerce, we need guarantees for the recovery of any crossborder debts. i fully support the idea in this report of asking the commission to propose more effective enforcement instruments to complement those already in place for crossborder claims, such as the brussels i regulation or the procedure for small claims. the courts should have the tools to act quickly to freeze the assets of the debtor or alleged debtor, but not under all circumstances. we have to strike a balance between protecting creditors and protecting debtors' rights, to avoid arbitrariness. the possibility of obtaining an aeo without prior notification and hearing of the interested party is an infringement of the debtor's rights and is contrary to the current case-law of the cjeu. the report therefore fails to strike the necessary balance, and better protection of debtors' rights is needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as i believe that some measures are needed to make the work of members more efficient and to improve the performance of the institution's officials and infrastructure in terms of safety, information technology, visitor access and reducing the carbon footprint. security policy needs to be reviewed by implementing a smart and modern security strategy for parliament, with measures both inside the buildings and access procedures and in the area of the european institutions. in the area of ict, improvements are needed in terms of access to wireless networks inside the institution's buildings. on the other hand, the ict department should propose concrete measures to replace administrative documentation with clean electronic versions. the european institutions are major tourist attractions in brussels. surveys show that the influx of tourists is higher during holidays and weekends. the visitor centre and the visit programme should be adapted to those requirements. achieving the 30% carbon reduction target by 2020 is a priority. i support the initiative to replace the existing fleet with environmentally friendly vehicles, taking into account the short distances travelled corresponding to the range of electrically powered vehicles.
in writing. − the report on the 2009 discharge for the european medicines agency provided for postponement of the discharge. i voted in favour of this report for three main reasons. firstly, the european court of auditors found serious irregularities in several procurement procedures, including in one it contract worth around eur 30 million. because of these errors, best value for money was not ensured. secondly, the european medicines agency breached personnel selection rules, and thirdly it failed to prevent conflicts of interest: a month after retiring from the agency, the former executive director joined a consultancy which, inter alia, advises pharmaceutical companies on developing new medicinal products and reducing the time period to their market introduction. although the european medicines agency management board eventually decided to set limits with regard to the former executive director’s new and future professional activities, the discharge authority needs further explanations from the agency on how cases of conflict of interest are actually handled.
in writing. − for member states, investment agreements remain binding following the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and they must be approached from the perspective of the eu's exclusive competence in the field of foreign direct investment. this proposal for a council and parliament regulation will allow for the maintenance of all investment agreements currently in force between member states and third countries and i believe that by doing so we will provide an explicit guarantee of legal certainty as regards the conditions to which investors are subject. the proposal also lays down the conditions under which member states will be able to negotiate and conclude new bilateral investment agreements with third countries, as an exceptional transitional measure.
in writing. − earlier this year i made some enquiries to the european commission in response to press reports about shipments of toxic waste from italy to romania. although no evidence was found for the shipments, what was clear from the outcome of my enquiries was that we could benefit from more regular inspections of cargo, as this would act as a deterrent to those involved in the illegal shipment of waste. such measures may have an additional impact in the case of developing countries because they may lack the capacity to properly monitor incoming shipments and therefore prevent the entry of toxic material into their territory. we should give serious consideration to the benefits of thorough, regular inspections coordinated at eu level, especially in the case of shipments to developing countries.
in writing. − georgia is one of the european union's partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the european union has a vital interest in ensuring stability on its eastern borders, which can be achieved through economic growth and political security. the macro-financial assistance package to georgia is a direct response to the economic and social difficulties faced by that country. although georgia's economy is showing signs of recovery, it is still fragile and vulnerable, requiring financial stability. the union's macro-financial assistance shall complement the other financial instruments and assistance provided to georgia by the imf and international and bilateral donors, providing short-term macro-economic support to georgia.
mr president, mr verhofstadt asked the commission to rewrite the communication but i wonder if, before it is rewritten, we could get a clear answer today as to whether or not you are aiming to improve the current existing system, to temporarily close borders, or to add something to the existing system. that would be a good way of solving at least one of our questions. having said this, it is fair to say that we concur with the commission’s aim of improving schengen governance by reviewing the evaluation mechanism on the basis of a community approach. parliament shares this view and, in this context, i have to say that we are deeply disappointed by the council’s approach. in fact what the council wants to do is simply to isolate the parliament. i really wonder why the council almost constantly seeks to undermine the great achievement that is the codecision role of the european parliament. we represent european citizens, and we should all work to serve european citizens. perhaps the council should also understand its role as an eu institution rather than a mere gathering of 27 member states. the truth is that the answer to this migration flow, whether or not it is due to what has happened in north africa and the southern mediterranean, is to come up with legislation involving a common policy on asylum and migration, which parliament has worked on and which is being blocked in the council.
the schengen area must not be threatened by exceptional migratory phenomena such as those in the southern mediterranean. the european commission must not promote the ideas of certain member states which call it into question. the commission's role is to protect the schengen area by promoting european solutions as referred to in the schengen acquis. member states must show solidarity in the management of the schengen area. the council should also contribute to strengthening the schengen area by approving the accession of romania and bulgaria to it without delay. the so-called schengen problems are false and have nothing to do with free movement within the union, but with the inability or unwillingness of some countries to deal with the problems of immigration from outside the european union. the solution for the future lies in improving the european migration management system, completing the common european asylum system, the legal framework on illegal and legal migration and enhancing the role of frontex.
, in writing. under the blows of the economic and financial crisis, as well as the consequences of the arab spring with profound implications for the needs to control the flows of migrants and access to oil resources, the eu seems to be increasingly divided, on the verge of abandoning one of its most valuable achievements - free movement in the schengen area. restricting the freedom of movement of european citizens by introducing new, even temporary, restrictions and imposing on romania and bulgaria criteria additional to those of the schengen treaty will lead to the erosion of european unity. i believe in a strong and united europe and i am among the supporters of the vision of the hungarian eu presidency expressed in the slogan 'strong europe'. but looking at the latest developments in the future of the schengen area, i see that we are on the wrong track. in critical times like the one we are going through, european leadership should show more vision and solidarity, be concerned about blocking the resurgence of rampant populism and domestic protectionism in europe. these will have dramatic, predictable consequences. restrictions and prohibitions will not lead to the strengthening and stability of the schengen area!
i come from romania, a country that produces nuclear energy and where the population still has unanswered questions and fears about the long-term impact of the chernobyl accident. this discussion with the european commission is important and welcome and i believe that we are obliged to pay particular attention to the problem of measuring the impact of nuclear accidents on human health. an expert group funded by the european commission has recommended an international study to investigate the full health effects of the chernobyl disaster. normally, the world health organization would be the best candidate to conduct this study. in reality, however, there is a conflict between the world health organization and the international atomic energy agency, and the interests of the nuclear industry seem to take precedence over human health. an agreement between these organisations, signed more than 50 years ago, allows the agency to withhold confidential information from who, even though this information can be of vital importance for monitoring and understanding the effects of nuclear accidents on human health. in other words, an organization that promotes nuclear technology denies who access to information about the health effects of this technology.
i thank the commissioner very much for his answer. in a global ranking of vulnerability to food price increases, of the 40 countries in the top of the list, 4 are european union member states. i do not doubt the commissioner's best intentions with the budget, but how far will the future budget be able to meet both food needs and new environmental ambitions?
on behalf of the alde group. i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr toine manders, on the work and perseverance he has shown in negotiating this proposal for a regulation with the council. i welcome the agreement reached with the council at second reading, which, although it is perfect, i believe will bring more competitiveness to the textile industry and, at the same time, guarantee better information for consumers. there are many positive aspects of this agreement. firstly, the procedure for the inclusion of a new fibre in annex 1 is simplified, which will allow the reduction of administrative costs for the textile industry and allow the reallocation of this money to innovation. this will also benefit consumers as innovation is encouraged. i also believe that this regulation brings benefits to consumers because of the labelling requirements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed in order to make informed choices. the discussions on labelling have gone beyond what the commission originally proposed, but i believe that this can only be to the benefit of european consumers. i agree that we need more time to assess the impact of additional labelling requirements, especially as regards their origin, how they are maintained, the introduction of a harmonised size labelling system, so the commission's study is a first step forward. finally, i think that the requirement to label non-textile parts of animal origin is a real step forward, since there are consumers who do not want the textile products they buy to contain such materials. i believe that, on the whole, this regulation is one that will help to deepen the single market for textiles, which is why i fully support it.
stress tests are important for assessing the health of the banking system, but two conditions are required, and they're essential. first, to ensure the quality of these tests and the accuracy of the evaluation process itself. i would like to mention that banks have had different business models in different countries. in romania, as in other countries, banks were not involved in toxic asset transactions, but instead, they practiced expansionary lending based on external resources attracted in the short term and making long-term financing. but the results were the same: losses, a particular vulnerability created in those countries, and, obviously, a lack of responsibility for risk management. the second condition is the transparency of the results of the tests we will carry out in the banking systems, transparency that is demanded by both the financial markets and the citizens.
the fact that the previous stress tests were not credible complicates the conduct of the following examinations. the irish crisis has changed the face of european banking. in this context, future tests need to be much more accurate in providing information. national authorities must already implement action plans. that would solve the problems with the stress tests in general. we don't have to wait to see which banks fail the exam. the new tests should highlight the weaknesses of the banking system and also identify where capital strengthening is needed. i would stress the importance of the commission's fair approach to the application of stress tests in absolutely all member states. finally, i also think it would be useful if the commission were to inform us of the major changes it proposes.
, in writing. – earlier this year i made some enquiries to the european commission in response to press reports about shipments of toxic waste from italy to romania. although no evidence was found for the shipments, what was clear from the outcome of my enquiries was that we could benefit from more regular inspections of cargo, as this would act as a deterrent to those involved in the illegal shipment of waste. such measures may have an additional impact in the case of third countries because they may lack the capacity to properly monitor incoming shipments and therefore prevent the entry of toxic material into their territory. we should give serious consideration to the benefits of thorough, regular inspections, coordinated at eu level, especially in the case of shipments to developing countries.
, in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague albertini on the preparation of this detailed report. it re-launches topics where more eu involvement is needed, and i am thinking here of the eastern partnership and black sea synergy. these two initiatives play a crucial role both in strengthening relations with the states in the immediate neighbourhood and from the point of view of energy security. the organisation of the eastern partnership summit in the autumn of this year and the establishment of the euronest parliamentary assembly are promising signs on the way to implementing these directives. strengthening relations with the republic of moldova is also included among the priorities of the common foreign policy, with a view to the conclusion of the association agreement with the eu. the mention of this point will ensure a positive development of the negotiations between the two parties. i would also like to stress the importance attached to resolving the frozen conflicts, in particular the one in transnistria. i welcome this move, especially in the wake of the failure of the vienna dialogue last month, and i support the continuation of the negotiations in the 5+2 format.
, in writing. the lisbon treaty provided us with a major opportunity to move forward in the field of defense and security. but, as evidence indicates, this is not enough. despite the relatively numerous operations, there is still an obvious divorce between the instruments we are equipping us with - see the battle-groups, for example - and the improvised collection of national means we actually employ, when the eu is required to intervene. take libya, for example: because the absence of political consensus and proper military assets, a "coalition of the willing" - a concept we were so adamantly opposed when others have used it before - had to be formed and nato had to be called in to take command!? practically, libya completely sidelined our csdp, exactly at a time it was needed and, therefore, had the chance to demonstrate itself in practice!? in consequence, my opinion is that we have to look again at our csdp, to see what it really needs to become a functional concept, both politically and militarily, so next time we would need to appeal to it, it will not let us down like this time.
, in writing. the situation in syria is very worrying. we do not have reliable and complete information, because access to the foreign press has been denied, but the repression by the assad regime is intensifying and has already led, according to figures released by non-governmental organizations, to the murder of 600-700 civilians and the arrest or disappearance of another 8000 people. syrian citizens have been demonstrating for almost two months and they must not be left alone in the fight for democracy. the brutal repression is unacceptable and must stop. the eu must take a leading role in finding a quick solution. i would therefore like to welcome the restrictive measures against the syrian regime adopted by the council earlier this week. but we must do more, in cooperation with the union's partners, to encourage the syrian authorities to end the repression. assad is isolated. only the gaddafi regime today denounces "the international conspiracy to undermine syria's national security", a statement that says a lot about the situation in syria. finally, i want to emphasize that in the current context, syria's candidacy for membership of the un human rights council is unacceptable.
, in writing. – the protracted violent actions against the coptic church in egypt and largely against christians in the middle east require an immediate response from the european union. an essential part of the christian-european heritage is under threat. people are persecuted in their hundreds of thousands because of their religious beliefs. the new egyptian authorities benefited from widespread sympathy and direct eu financial and political support. but now, after churches were burned and christians killed in a renewed wave of attacks, the time has come for the eu to make it abundantly clear to the egyptian authorities that they are responsible for the internal security of the country and for the protection of the rights and livelihood of all egyptian citizens. suspicions that the egyptian authorities turned a blind eye to or even encouraged religious violence should be dispersed by a firm undertaking that the christian community will be safe in egypt. the eu should ask for explanations from the egyptian authorities and make it clear that further violence will be followed by the cessation of european financial and humanitarian assistance. this unequivocal warning should condition all present agreements and should be included in all future agreements with middle east governments.
in writing. − i fully agree that the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission should be taken into account, as i consider that the proposal in question is limited to a simple codification of existing texts without substantive changes to them.
in writing. − making the allocation of radio spectrum in the eu more efficient is a prerequisite for keeping pace with other developed countries in moving towards the digital society. the elements of this report are also fully consistent with the eu digital agenda. both consumers and businesses in the eu are increasingly using broadband and mobile internet via smartphones or tablets, which requires fast connections. this implies the release of the 800 mhz band for mobile broadband internet services as soon as possible and even the band below 790 mhz if it proves necessary to cope with the growth of data traffic. the measures envisaged in the first radio spectrum policy programme are indispensable to reduce the digital divide and provide fast and reliable telecommunications services in rural and remote areas with a view to revitalising them. last but not least, they support innovation and the wider use of new technologies, which is absolutely necessary for the competitiveness of the european economy, as was also underlined in the single market act.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the radio spectrum report today. it will ultimately create employment in this sector, aid the completion of the digital agenda and lend itself to achieving wireless frequency targets by 2013. in romania, we have one of the fastest internet speeds in europe. by enhancing european broadband, this will increase our competitiveness. it is noteworthy that the international telecommunications union argues that capacity has to be opened up and preferably harmonised at a global level. we all use radio spectrum in our daily lives for listening to radio programmes, for using our mobile telephones, for remotely locking our cars and for using satellite navigation systems. this report will aim to coordinate the eu approach for the management of spectrum across the union. it is important that member states continue to engage in bilateral communications and negotiations with third countries in order to achieve their union frequency targets.
in writing. − the creation of a common transparency register is undoubtedly an important step forward, which european citizens have been waiting for. the european institutions, whether elected or not, take decisions that affect the daily lives of citizens, and in a democratic system, which the eu is striving towards, it is quite normal for there to be a high degree of transparency in the decision-making process. this common transparency register also simplifies things for lobbyists, as there will be one single registration instead of two as at present. on the other hand, it is very true that this register will not be a sufficient tool to solve the problem of corruption. i do not think that its primary purpose is exclusively to fight corruption, since cases of corruption have been very rare.
in writing. − the establishment of a common transparency register, as well as the improvement of all transparency-related rules in the european parliament, are necessary to increase citizens' confidence in parliamentary activities and to ensure the necessary transparency of these activities. i voted in favour of both casini reports and i am awaiting the strongest possible proposals from the working group on transparency and the regulation of lobbying in the ep.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr fox's report. as the shadow rapporteur of the epp group, i would point out that the very good result of the final vote once again demonstrates the close cooperation between the political groups. we have thus succeeded in preventing the european parliament from taking an excessively binding stance on corporate governance rules. it is very important that our group promote a balanced approach in solving the global financial crisis. that is why we must avoid introducing barriers to financial institutions. the final report gives greater importance and empowerment to the role of the european supervisory authorities. the most important compromise concerns the equality between the principle of 'compliance or otherwise justification' and the mandatory rules. i think that the introduction of rules should only be done when codes of good practice fail. the 'compliance or otherwise justification' approach is proportionate and can be applied to a large number of financial institutions. at the same time, however, it must be complemented by regular external evaluations and adequate regulatory oversight.
in writing. − the financial crisis has highlighted the ineffectiveness of current corporate governance principles and it is now essential to learn from the past to avoid a repeat of a similar situation in the future. the area of corporate governance is constantly evolving and the financial sector has a particular responsibility for sustainable and sound strategies in the economic environment. it is necessary to maintain the sound, stable and competitive character of financial institutions so that they can contribute to economic growth. in this respect, i consider that effective corporate governance must take account in a fair way of the interests of all parties involved and, at the same time, of the stability of the financial system. this will ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and increase consumer confidence in financial institutions and transactions.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the european commission decided not to wait for parliament to adopt its report on the future of european international investment policy and decided to go further by proposing a negotiating mandate for an investment chapter to india. it would be appropriate for european lawmakers to be consulted when it comes to an international negotiating mandate, as the ep's role in shaping eu investment policies is relevant. the commission must respond as quickly as possible to parliament's request to clearly define the investment deadline so that the investment protection provisions do not undermine the parties' ability to grant binding authorisations. in addition, the mandatory inter-state dispute settlement mechanism only empowers foreign investors to bring international litigation against the eu and indian governments, while domestic investors have access only to domestic courts. this could undermine national policy initiatives on environmental, social or fiscal legislation. the free trade agreement with india is going to be the most important of all the agreements negotiated so far and therefore more attention would not hurt.
in writing. − on the eu-india free trade agreement, i chose to vote in favour of the resolution proposed by my political group, considering it more balanced than the resolutions proposed by other political groups. the resolution of the european socialists and democrats underlined the importance of a free trade agreement with india, while recalling the persistence of social inequalities in that country and the need to include clauses on human rights, social and environmental rights in the agreement.
in writing. − in the votes on eu-japan trade relations, i decided to vote in favour of the resolution tabled by my political group. that resolution stressed the need to remove non-tariff barriers to the japanese market and to liberalise access to the japanese public procurement market before concluding a free trade agreement with that country.
in writing. − forests are the main carbon store and play a key role in combating climate change. 42% of the european union's land area is covered by forests and woodlands. forests form carbon-storing biospheres and are particularly important for environmental conservation and protection against natural disasters. all these elements are essential for the quality of life of european citizens, but also for agriculture and rural development. i would like to stress that sustainable forest management is a key component in achieving the european union's climate objectives and in capturing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. the forest industries also provide two million jobs, contributing to economic growth, to employment. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the european union reinforces its strategy to improve the sustainable management and conservation of the forestry sector.
in writing. − the forest action plan adopted in 2006 set four important objectives, which, however, were not given equal attention, as intermediate evaluations of its implementation have shown. the main shortcomings are in enhancing protection and conservation of biodiversity and show that 66% of forest habitats are in a poor state. in practice, the findings show that while attention has been paid to improving long-term competitiveness, the objectives of improving the environment, contributing to improving the quality of life and promoting coordination and communication have been rather poorly implemented. forests provide livelihoods for millions of workers, entrepreneurs and 16 million forest owners. the eu's forest industries provide over 2 million jobs, mostly in smes, and have a turnover of €300 billion. forest management, in turn, employs more than 350,000 people. from these perspectives, it is important to pursue the objectives set out in the forestry strategies. this, combined with climate change, is reason enough to mobilise all eu member states and make equal and united efforts to manage the union's forests. this must be coupled with the adaptation of energy, industry, trade, research and cohesion policies, including regional policy and the solidarity fund.
in writing. − the economic, social and environmental importance of forests in the international, european, regional and national context is generally well known and is partly legitimised in relevant international agreements and cooperation and funding programmes. climate change is having a very big impact on forests in all regions of europe, but with different intensities. a reform of the eu's approach to forest policies must not be limited to the challenges of climate change, but must take into account all aspects of the contribution of forests to sustainable development at regional, european and international level. another aspect is the support instruments and schemes for the forestry sector at union level, and these are far below those applicable to other sectors of activity and the current and prospective contribution of forests to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. however, a reform of the eu's approach to forest policies must not be limited to the challenges of climate change, but must take into account all aspects of the contribution of forests to sustainable development (environment, rural economies, etc.) at regional, european and international levels.
in writing. − due to the important contribution of forests to solving the climate crisis, sustainable forest management is of major importance for the eu to achieve its climate goals. the eu needs to strengthen its strategy to tackle the factors that cause forest degradation, such as uncontrolled deforestation, fires and air pollution. at the same time, ensuring biodiversity, protection against natural disasters and capture of co2 from the atmosphere are vital to improving the quality of life of our citizens and preserving the environment. i therefore believe that the protection of forests in the eu must aim at providing a guarantee that forests will continue to fulfil all their productive, socio-economic and ecological functions in the future.
in writing. - i voted against part of paragraph 36 because the provision is at least unrealistic. i don't think we should ban building on forest land that has been affected by fires, because some of that land is effectively unusable for other purposes. i do not think we should present some cases of abuse as a general rule and affect the property rights of forest owners who have already been affected by a forest fire. however, the idea in paragraph 37 is acceptable, which proposes the introduction of a ban in the event of a proven arson. but in this case, i think we can face the negative consequences that would result: the arsonist does not have to be the owner of the property and i do not see why the latter should be punished.
in writing. − forests provide us with many essential eco-services, ranging from regulating the water cycle to preventing soil erosion and sequestering carbon. the environmental and economic benefits of forests require that they be afforded urgent, continuing and long-term protection, and this is especially important in the context of climate change, in terms of both mitigation and adaptation. this report covers a wide range of issues and is the result of much hard work and fruitful negotiation involving all the main political groups. i sincerely hope the commission and the member states will act on its constructive suggestions.
in writing. − in a time of economic and financial crisis, the european union is called upon to strengthen its strategic autonomy to uphold its values and protect its citizens by developing a common vision of the main challenges and threats and by aligning its resources and capabilities to provide an adequate response. i consider that the new provisions on the common security and defence policy introduced by the treaty of lisbon represent a firm political expression of the union's intention to act as a stabilising force in the world and provide a clear legal framework for strengthening its capacity to pursue its foreign and security policy, through a comprehensive approach based on all the instruments at the disposal of the union and the member states, to prevent and manage crises and conflicts and to build lasting peace. i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the european union needs a strong and effective security and defence policy to prevent conflicts, to protect the security of its citizens, to assert its fundamental values, to contribute to the support of international law, to the promotion of respect for human rights and democratic values throughout the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important step towards implementing the lisbon treaty. the changes proposed in this document will improve the flexibility of european military capabilities. i would remind you that the diversification of global threats requires an adaptation of the common security and defence policy. cyberattacks, illegal immigration, and terrorism are just some of these. and the union has become a preferred target of international crime. i would also like to stress the importance of the financial resources that support this policy. i believe that the revision of the athena mechanism by the polish presidency will clarify the budgetary issue. this will make it easier to determine the member states' contribution to the common costs of european military operations. the dissolution of the western european union and the introduction of the mutual defence clause in the treaty marked a development in the common defence policy.
in writing. − i voted in support of our common foreign and security policy report, with the hope that such a policy would take shape at last. up to now our common foreign and security policy is a collection of disagreements and misguided initiatives. the recent euro-row over action in libya and the subsequent german opt-out made it clear to the rest of the world that the eu is still not able to project a real common foreign and security policy. moreover, the french initiative aiming at consolidating the financing of the southern neighbourhood at the expense of the eastern neighbourhood sent a disastrous message to our eastern partners. this is even more sensitive at a time when other quintessential european projects are in doubt, if not in crisis. the euro is under constant pressure and the problem is, in part, generated by the same lack of european ambition and coherence. the schengen area is rolled back on a daily basis and national barriers re-emerge as the european spirit and legislation are ignored or broken by fellow member states. a non-existent common foreign and security policy assisted by a huge external action service would seriously undermine european credibility in the world.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty strengthens the eu's capacity to join various international organisations, giving it a wider range of powers in the field of external action and giving it the opportunity to adopt a single, clearer and stronger position globally. the treaty also encourages cooperation with relevant international and regional organisations and groups of states and enables the union to become an effective global player. the eu's commitment to effective multilateralism is the guiding principle of european external action. i believe that the european union, based on its internal experience of cooperation between nations and institutions, has a global responsibility which it should continue to uphold. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs maría muñiz de urquiza because the union's presence in multilateral organisations is one of the main directions of its external policy. today, the eu has a legal personality, which gives it greater visibility on the world stage. moreover, the union has become by treaty a full participant in international politics. the lisbon treaty has improved instruments for external action, particularly in the un. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to article 12 of the report - the first step towards coordinated and effective action by the member states in the security council. i would like to stress that the un is currently in the process of reforming its structures, which also allows for a reorganisation of the eu's representation in this area.
in writing. − the eu's mechanisms for reaching consensus and taking concerted action make it a model for a rules-based international order. the eu must therefore cooperate with the major regional powers and actively participate in building and improving an international environment that allows it to promote its values and interests. the timing is all the more opportune given the sharp increase in the number of political and humanitarian crises worldwide, which means that the european union must make use of its foreign policy instruments to better exert its influence in international organisations and effectively take a leading role in resolving current and future international crises. on the other hand, globalisation processes also present a wide range of opportunities, challenges and threats to global governance, revealing social gaps and failures, including in the areas of financial markets, energy security, poverty reduction, climate change policy and human rights violations. and the eu must strengthen its role as a global actor and be a global decision-maker.
in writing. −the european union's commitment to effective multilateralism is of paramount importance. the union should take into account the enhanced representation of itself and of its member states in multilateral organisations. the rapid increase in the number of political and humanitarian crises today is worrying, indicating the need for such a strategy to be implemented in the eu. the union is not yet adequately fulfilling its role as a global actor and i consider that the strengthening and increasing importance of its role in multilateral organisations is real progress in stabilising its importance in the world.
first, i want to express my disappointment at the failure of the reconciliation. although it took months of work, years even, the result is disappointing, especially since the agreement was possible for many elements of the file. the reporting, however, deserves all our appreciation for its efforts. as regards food derived from cloned animals and their offspring, parliament was right to maintain its principled position. we are aware that we are representing the will of european citizens when we oppose the presence of cloned animals and their offspring in the food chain. during the negotiations, the council ignored these legitimate concerns, which is deeply regrettable. if we had accepted the council's final proposal, it would have been impossible to claim that we had defended the citizens' desire not to have cloned meat on the table. we were not prepared to pass laws that would allow food from cloned animals to enter the market without being labelled. looking ahead, i would like to remind the commission of the commitments it made in october 2010, firstly the ban on cloning techniques for food production in the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. these commitments have been made repeatedly and they must be reflected in the new proposals. i am confident that member states will pay more attention to the legitimate concerns of eu citizens.
at the end of march 2011, the unemployment rate in the european union was 9.5% and in the euro area 9.9%. even more worrying is the fact that the youth unemployment rate is almost double that of the general population. improving the business environment and access to finance, as well as facilitating smes' access to structural funds, will encourage the development of entrepreneurship. smes need legal and fiscal stability. repeated changes in tax legislation or in the conditions for access to different types of funds make their work more difficult. also, especially in times of crisis, smes are affected by the delay in paying their bills by public institutions. all of this affects smes' forecasts of the realisation of their business plans, their activity and, above all, their capacity to innovate. in the period 2006-2008, smes were able to obtain only 33% of the total value of public procurement contracts. given that public procurement represents 17% of the european union's gdp, we believe that the participation of smes in the public procurement market needs to increase. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that by 2015 at least 50% of public procurement is carried out by electronic means, as the member states' governments committed themselves to in manchester in 2005. i would point out that the single market in services is not yet operational and this is having a negative impact on the activities of smes in the european union. in 2008, the commission presented, as part of the european economic recovery plan, the programme in which the european investment bank participates with an overall package of €30 billion for loans to smes. the eib was to add €1 billion per year to its lending to medium-sized companies. i would like to ask the commission what the state of implementation of this programme is, whether it is considering supplementary funding and whether this funding is being distributed fairly to all the member states.
to improve the regulatory environment that is favourable to the needs of smes, the small business act needs to be aligned with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. the full and rapid implementation of the actions presented is therefore required, in particular the 'think small first' principle. i believe that special attention should be paid to large-scale financing of innovative companies. according to the commission's assessment, romania is an example of good practice in applying the principle of 'promoting entrepreneurship through the start business programme'. the programme has a budget of eur 21.2 million and aims to develop management skills among young people. we have also made progress in implementing the principle of 'access to finance for smes'. the government supports the creation and development of at least 1100 youth smes.
i start by welcoming the european commission's proposals for a revision of the small business act for europe. in fact, in its communication of 23 february 2011, the european commission notes the far-reaching progress that has been made since the adoption of the 'small business act' in june 2008, but draws attention to the remaining challenges. smes thus continue to face problems in expanding their activities, improving their capacity to innovate, accessing markets, obtaining financing and facing excessive bureaucracy. in many cases, when transposing directives into national law, the bureaucratic requirements set by the european union are practically exceeded. in order to ensure greater transparency, each member state should draw up comparative tables between bureaucratic measures at national level and those required by european directives. an assessment of the impact that new european legislative proposals could have on smes is also needed.
member of the commission. − mr president, many thanks to the honourable members for a very serious and substantive discussion. the commission is aware that more needs to be done; this has been underlined by several members, and i fully agree that the well-being of small and medium-sized enterprises is crucial for europe’s recovery, for growth and for employment. when our smes do well, the european economy does well. i can assure you that the implementation of the ‘think small first’ principle and the actions proposed in the small business act are a foremost priority for the commission. i want to thank you for your support in this regard. the commission is looking forward to working closely with all relevant players, especially the european parliament, to ensure effective implementation of the small business act at european level and at national level, in the member states. the european sme week in october will be a good opportunity to work together to raise awareness of sme policy and the needs of smes everywhere in the european union. we are organising this event together with the parliament and the commission.
the president of the council. - action here and now! - said mr bendtsen, and i share his view. smes - we have heard - are the main employers and the main employers of the european union, and it is particularly important to review them after the economic crisis, to see how we can help them to recover. the hungarian presidency believes in a work-based economy and society and counts small and medium-sized enterprises among its main partners. since 2008, the economic environment has changed dramatically and therefore there is indeed a need for a review. we welcome the six-party consensus mentioned by mr bütikofer and we are grateful to the fact that several speakers have confirmed the efforts of the hungarian presidency and that the hungarian presidency is indeed making this issue a priority. let me draw your attention to a few specifics. after listening carefully to the representatives, we are pleased to report that there is indeed complete agreement on the principles. small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of european economic growth and employment, and increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is therefore a priority for the council. to reflect this, the presidency will submit a draft to the council of ministers at the council conclusions to be adopted by the competitiveness council at its meeting of 30-31 may 2001. the main elements of this will aim to provide answers to the problems identified as a result of the review of the sme package. what are these? better access to credit, market access both at european and global level. these are improving market access conditions and reducing administrative burdens. it is important to the council - and we are happy to say it here - that the directive on late payment, which has been adopted, should be transposed as soon as possible. the council is striving for this, and encourages the member states to do so, because it would relieve smes of a great deal of the burden and would greatly increase their liquidity. i am also pleased to report that the council is close to agreement on the commission's objectives to reduce the burden of setting up a business. the idea is to set up a business in as little as three days at a cost of up to 100 euros and to get the permits in as little as a month. i would like to mention two other specific cases. the european patent case is one of them. twenty-three member states have now joined the enhanced cooperation and the basic regulation is already being discussed in the council. we consider this to be a major breakthrough for the competitiveness of the eu and in particular for the competitiveness of smes. mr. creutzmann asked about the european private limited company and asked that we treat it as a priority. we're making some serious progress. only a very, very small number of member states did not join the consensus. it would really be a turning point for smes to have this adopted, so we are working very hard on it and we also hope that the representatives will be able to exert some sort of political pressure, some sort of incentive through their own channels, to get the necessary majority to come forward. we've spoken to the legal committee and the high-ranking officials on this several times. finally, let me mention the connection with the europe 2020 strategy. we believe it is important to translate the objectives of the strategy into legislation and actions and measures that improve the situation of smes, but of course member states must also do their homework. the european framework is not enough on its own, and we believe that it is necessary, for example, to simplify tax systems and to make small and medium-sized enterprises friendly. several member states are also acting in this spirit. among them is the hungarian presidency.
, in writing. i welcome the commission's communication on the sba review, which largely addresses the issues facing smes and to which european and national policies will need to provide an answer. the single market act has placed a strong emphasis on supporting smes and much of the suggested measures, such as revising accounting guidelines, reducing red tape, improving access to capital markets and public procurement markets, etc., are reflected in this communication. one of the major problems of smes is the lack of access to finance, which is an obstacle to innovation and growth for these enterprises. in particular for innovative smes, there is a need for greater access to informal finance, equity finance and venture capital, which is a key source of finance for start-ups. smes can also be supported by fiscal incentives at national level, especially in the first months of activity. finally, i believe it is essential for smes that the late payments directive is implemented correctly. in addition, in order to help smes develop cross-border activities, cross-border debt recovery should be facilitated and the european private company statute should be adopted without delay.
, in writing. smes face difficulties in accessing finance and the market. the future mff must provide for measures to address these difficulties. increased support is needed for programmes and financial instruments that are already working successfully but have proven insufficient, such as the competitiveness and innovation programme. improving access to financial support for start-up innovative enterprises in the form of start-up funding is needed. the creation of a european venture capital fund, as well as the extension of the european investment bank's proposed risk-sharing products through the risk-sharing finance facility, will also benefit smes. as regards market access for smes, i ask the commission to propose a plan to ensure the introduction of innovative products on the market and their commercialisation. a set of measures is also needed to support smes in implementing the new energy efficiency plan.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will focus on one issue only because i need my five minutes for that. in recent weeks, and today in this house, many voices have spoken in favour of debt restructuring in greece. it sounds very easy and neat. however, i must say that the proponents of sovereign debt restructuring seem to ignore the potentially devastating implications for financial stability in the country itself and in the euro area as a whole, and the consequences and ramifications for economic growth and employment. let us think about what the consequences of debt restructuring could be. of course, we are talking about a counterfactual situation, as are the proponents of debt restructuring, but we have enough understanding of the channels of impact on financial stability and economic activity to make a likely and most possible scenario. this is how it could very likely turn out. bondholders would take a big hit – i.e. households through their savings instruments like pension savings, as well as institutional investors such as pension funds and insurance companies. banks would also bear the cost. from last year’s bank stress-test exercise, we know that the greek banks hold eur 48 billion of government securities, greek government bonds. what would happen? a restructuring of sovereign securities would seriously erode their capital base. for instance, even a 30% haircut would mean that a large part of the banking system would end up under-capitalised, while a 50% haircut, which many have advocated, would imply that a large part of the greek banking system would simply become insolvent. thus, a debt restructuring in greece would have major consequences on the soundness of the banking sector in greece, as well as on any banks having exposure to greek securities. now, i do not love banks, nor do i do my job in the first place in order to save them, but it is a fact that such a major banking crisis would lead to a massive credit crunch. it is not a kind of theoretical virtuality. it is a very likely result. a massive credit crunch. moreover, through rating actions, the collateral pool at the disposal of the greek banks would most likely be wiped out. it would melt down. a massive credit crunch, possible bank runs, a deposit freeze and/or capital controls could well be part of the consequences. what is absolutely sure is that the contraction of the economy would be unprecedented in greece. let me recall that argentinian gdp collapsed by almost half over five years. would that help greece or europe? i doubt it. even such a severe haircut as 50% would not reduce the debt ratio below 100% of gdp, assuming that the international creditors like the euro area member states or the imf were excluded from this haircut. greece still has a large fiscal deficit which it has to finance. who would be ready to lend to greece the morning after it wiped out 70% or 50% or 30% of previous investors’ financial wealth? who would be ready to lend to greece the morning after? debt restructuring would cut greece’s access to financial markets for a very long time, and the goal of the eu/imf programme is indeed a relatively rapid return to the markets to finance the greek sovereign debt so that european taxpayers do not have to guarantee loans to do that. that is the goal of this exercise. let us recall that in the final analysis fiscal solvency requires stabilising and then reducing the government debt ratio – i.e. achieving a primary structural surplus and achieving a debt-stabilising level. greece is still living beyond its means, and the key is that greece has to start earning more than it consumes and also be able to pay the interest rates on its debt burden. that is the primary structural surplus that greece needs, and debt restructuring would not solve this very fundamental fact. therefore, at the end of the day, the main determinants over the solvency of greece are of a political and social nature – the consistent rigour to keep the primary surplus stable at a high level of around 5% of gdp for a long period of time. we have examples of this. belgium successfully did so in the 1990s for almost a decade. moreover, six eu member states have been able to maintain a primary surplus of over 4% for at least four years, so it is not impossible. it is certainly very challenging, but it has been done before and it is doable also for greece if there is the political will and unity in the country. this is the only way for greece to avoid much worse alternatives. we really are at a critical juncture concerning the future of europe. this debate is about the sovereign debt crisis. it has implications for the euro, for the future of europe. you know this very well. i must say that i am extremely concerned about the divergence in the national political debates we have heard recently, which have also been reflected in this house. there is political fatigue in central and northern europe about supporting the countries in trouble; there is reform fatigue in southern europe about carrying out the necessary reforms. we need to find the energy together to beat this fatigue. we need to build bridges over these divergences in order to save europe, and we need to make the necessary decisions to avoid another, even worse crisis and to enable the whole of europe to recover from this extremely serious financial crisis that we have experienced in the last years.
the president of the council. - mr president, members of the house. i would like to reflect briefly on two lines of thought: while the banking crisis has undoubtedly contributed greatly to our current economic problems, it would be wrong to ignore that much of the problems in many member states before the crisis stemmed from a lack of fiscal discipline, economic policies that did not strengthen competitiveness, and a lack of coordination of european economic policies. it is clear that a comprehensive european response is needed, and two important elements of this are the implementation of the european semester and the reform of economic governance, which are also the top priorities of the hungarian presidency. the implementation of both priorities is at an important, critical stage. with regard to the european semester, we are committed to its successful completion in a timely manner. we are planning to discuss the member states' stability and convergence programmes and national reform programmes at the ecofin meeting in june, and i hope that these programmes will finally represent a real breakthrough in the budgetary and economic policies of the individual member states. there's a lot of work going on in the tri-med on the six pack. in this context, the hungarian presidency will present the main points of parliament's proposals at the meeting of the finance ministers next week, and at this meeting we will ask the council for a mandate to agree on the six pieces of legislation as quickly and successfully as possible in june. a responsible and flexible approach is needed from both the council and the parliament, and i am convinced that the agreement would also send a very positive message to the markets in the current situation and would reflect the ability of the european institutions to cooperate without delay and responsibly when this is very much needed in europe. with regard to the portuguese programme and the three adjustment programmes in general, i would first of all like to welcome the fin political agreement we all know that it is extremely important for the operation of the european financial stability facility. at the same time, i would point out that this is also reflected in the economic policy programme drawn up by the troika in the case of portugal, that in the case of greece, ireland and portugal, the programmes drawn up are adapted to the specific characteristics of the country concerned and are by no means thematic. in the case of greece, the emphasis is on fiscal consolidation. in the case of ireland, the consolidation of the banking system can be seen as the key element. in the case of portugal, the most important aspects are structural reforms, labour market reforms and commodity market reforms. we all know that it is extremely important for portugal to set its economy on a higher growth path and to strengthen its competitiveness in the medium term. i am convinced that while it is a major effort for individual member states to implement the economic policy programmes linked to the credit agreements, it is also an opportunity to confront long-standing structural problems and to provide solutions and responses in the short term, which can ultimately lead to more sustainable and higher growth in these countries in the medium term.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149) the president of the court of justice shall be informed of the decision of the court of first instance.
, in writing. the euro currency is depreciating, at a time when there is talk of greece needing a second loan from the european union. we have to ask ourselves whether the situation of greece, like that of other european states in difficulty, is not a consequence of the actions taken by financial speculators, according to the 'divide and conquer' tactic. not long ago, portugal became the third country to have to borrow from the european union. financial speculators have forgotten the problem of banks that could hardly be saved and are focusing their attention on the european states in difficulty. thus, the low credit rating of the public debt made it impossible to obtain loans to repay the debts. i believe that we need a european credit rating agency that will move away from financial speculation. on the other hand, the issuance of eurobonds is imperative to demonstrate the will to save the euro.
i congratulate mrs merkies on her extremely detailed report. the contribution of the 'innovation union' to sustainable development requires the modernisation of the education system, the simplification and convergence of rules on access to existing funds, the forecasting of skills needs and the promotion of partnerships between universities and enterprises, the promotion of standardisation and the protection of intellectual property. broadband access is, however, a key prerequisite for an 'innovation union' as it improves citizen participation. we are asking for more funds for innovation, but i believe that in order to be consistent, as we have done in other cases, we must not prejudge ourselves in this report either in relation to the future cohesion policy, the future agricultural policy or the future multiannual financial framework. i hope this amendment gets a majority tomorrow. finally, we call on the commission to translate the union's innovation policy into an action plan with specific objectives and measurable targets.
research and innovation are currently the preserve of the most developed member states, and this is detrimental to the union. the european union must take this into account and promote the balancing of innovation potential across its territory. it is necessary to support the new member states in developing their research infrastructure by allocating additional resources, as commissioner quinn promised not so long ago. only in this way can we be sure that the gap between the east and the west of the european union in terms of research and innovation will not be widened and that the goal of creating a real innovation union will be achieved. the idea of using the structural or agricultural funds to finance innovation and research is being floated. i believe that this is neither feasible nor fair. the realistic solution is to create specific tools that are dedicated solely to research and innovation.
meeting the europe 2020 strategy target of increasing investment in r&d to 3% of gdp could lead to the creation of 3.7 million jobs and an increase in annual gdp of up to eur 795 billion by 2025. but to do that, we will need an extra million researchers, as many of them are currently attracted to non-european countries where there are mechanisms to remove the bottlenecks that keep ideas from reaching the market. fragmentation of research systems and markets, under-use of public procurement to stimulate innovation, funding insecurity and the slow process of standardisation are issues that eu countries are still facing but which we hope will be taken seriously if we want the 'innovation union' programme to be one of the successes of the 'europe 2020' strategy. only then will we be able to achieve sustainable growth in europe and withstand the increasing pressure of globalisation.
the 'innovation union' initiative is promoting a strategic, enterprise-oriented european policy. particular attention should be paid to the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. innovation must be guided by the public interest, improving the quality of life and promoting social welfare. globalisation and research are thus key drivers of external competitiveness and economic growth. this is complemented by the active involvement of smes and the involvement of european citizens. the commission should focus on technologies that underpin smarter and more sustainable systems. all strategies related to the eu's post-crisis adjustment must aim at sustainable job creation. in this regard, member states should promote stable economic models based on creativity.
in a europe without borders and in a continuing process of globalisation, innovation can and must play an important role in strengthening social cohesion by improving the quality of services provided, regardless of their field. but better services also require improved training. as such, i believe it is beneficial to establish specific vocational training programmes, with a focus on innovation and encouraging creativity, which can be cultivated, learned and reinforced at different stages of the educational process. the european commission should encourage and support member states to include more elements such as innovation and creativity in their national education systems, and to encourage improved cooperation between education systems and the business world by developing new curricula and doctoral programmes, including at cross-border level.
i welcome the initiative to adopt an addendum to the international labour organisation convention by recommending homeworkers. i would remind you that they represent 9% of the total workforce, but they do not enjoy the same social guarantees. failure to declare these activities is detrimental both to the workers and to the state, which cannot collect taxes. i believe that this category is particularly vulnerable to abuse by employers. in many cases, home workers are undocumented immigrants, which prevents them from appealing to the authorities if they are exploited. i ask the commission to adopt as a matter of urgency a package of measures to protect and inform them. close cooperation between national authorities and the european institutions is needed to improve working conditions for this category.
the ageing population is driving the demand for home care services. the economic crisis has pushed unemployment to about 10 percent and among young people to 20 percent. in many member states, economic recovery programmes have meant cuts in health budgets, which have also led to the dismissal of many health workers. failure to declare the provision of home care or cleaning services deprives these workers of the chance to earn a decent living and, above all, a decent pension. given that these sectors are predominantly occupied by women, who are generally responsible in their own families for both child rearing and care of the elderly, i would like to ask the commission whether there are statistics at european level and at the level of each member state on homeworkers. i would like to ask what measures the commission is considering to ensure the necessary flexibility, but also to ensure that the rights of these workers are respected.
this year's world health day, april 7, focused on antibiotic resistance, which is seen as a global public health threat. at european level, 25 000 people die each year from causes associated with antimicrobial resistance. animals and animal foods could play a role in the development of antimicrobial resistance in humans, which is why the resolution we are debating today is an important document. the most important word in any discussion of this subject is caution. antibiotics are not bad, but their use without thought and moderation is dangerous. antibiotics should not be demonized, but only used with caution, both in humans and animals. the measures proposed by this resolution concerning better information for veterinarians and farmers should therefore be implemented as actively as possible. the ban on the use of antibiotics as additives in animal feed must be the subject of an international agreement. a recent study in the united states found that almost half of the meat samples tested in stores contained golden staph, half of which were resistant to at least three classes of antibiotics. this demonstrates the widespread use of antibiotics in animal husbandry and i have to say that european farmers are tired of being the only ones who take on and follow the rules at the risk of lowering their incomes.
there are countries in the european union where unemployment is 20 percent, but youth unemployment is 40 percent, and it's not just one country, there are many countries where the average youth unemployment is twice the national average. if we are talking about the construction of europe, if we are talking about the future of these programmes and projects that we are thinking about here, then all these young people must feel european. all these young people must find their future within the borders of the european union. that is why i think we should talk a lot more about young people's access to jobs, about the future that young people have in the european union, when we talk about the 'youth on the move' programme. i think we are not answering these questions well enough and i think we should also be much more attentive to the way in which the member states implement the projects and programmes we are thinking about here. i think the role of the european commission is to push the member states more to implement these programmes properly and to meet the needs of young people.
, in writing. the future of the european union lies in its young people, in their potential and capacity to take on the current community project and take it to a new dimension of inclusion and cooperation between states. the first condition for today's young people to become tomorrow's european citizens is to know each other. to come into contact with as many cultures as possible in the european area, to move freely and to learn in as many member states as possible. in this respect, i believe that lifelong learning programmes such as erasmus or leonardo da vinci should receive more substantial financial support from the authorities in the coming years. europe needs an increasing number of its pupils and students to come into contact with a new social, educational and cultural model. mobility programmes for young people will, in my view, succeed in bringing about a de facto change in the attitude of young europeans and in unifying their vision of all that europe means, from education, science and research to culture and our common values.
, in writing. i would like to stress that i strongly support the framework for improving education and training systems in europe, 'youth on the move', and i believe it is extremely important in order to develop concrete policies to support the mobility of young people and to facilitate a stable transition from education to employment. an important factor to consider is that young people are one of the social groups severely affected by the global economic crisis. it is our duty to support young people's entry into the labour market, both for their own sake and to support the european economy. today's young people are tomorrow's leaders and it is therefore essential that they have the opportunity to develop their skills, abilities and knowledge today, so that in the near future they can actively contribute to the growth and development of the european union. we need to lay the foundations for concrete policies to support young people and facilitate increased mobility and opportunities to study abroad. this mobility is intended to support the economy, but at the same time it plays a very important role in creating cultural cohesion at european level.
, in writing. in the context of the current economic crisis, the eu needs a global strategy based on innovation and creativity, which contributes to growth and job creation, and that is why cultural and creative industries are the ones that need to be encouraged. i therefore believe that at the present time in europe we must ensure greater dissemination of creations and free access to them in the digital world, without neglecting the fact that artists and their works must be protected and fairly remunerated. in this regard, we need to establish a legislative framework capable of supporting the development of these industries and of giving confidence to consumers and those active in the digital market, as this sector can lead to the creation of new jobs, exploiting the cultural diversity of the european union and its innovative potential. i also believe that we need new business models to support these industries, taking advantage of the benefits of the digital single market. in conclusion, i believe that this report is a first step towards developing this sector, but the commission and the member states must step up their efforts to make the cultural and creative industries a core sector of the european economy.
, in writing. i am pleased that in the europe 2020 strategy we are paying special attention to young people, given the demographic challenges facing our continent. in this context, youth on the move - the european commission's flagship initiative - comes up with concrete measures to increase the level of education and training, including through mobility and facilitating employment. in addition to reducing early school leaving and increasing the proportion of higher education graduates by 2020, i would like to draw attention to some aspects that can support young people. first, the importance of developing more flexible educational programmes compatible with parallel employment. secondly, the usefulness of a virtual mobility system as a complement to territorial mobility. also encourage scholarships offered to students by private enterprises. equally important is support for private initiatives by young people, which can lead to job creation and, by implication, social integration.
, in writing. other the main objective of the 'youth on the move' initiative is to promote the mobility of young people and to remove the remaining obstacles to this, but i welcome the fact that it also places a strong emphasis on reconciling education and labour market needs. perhaps the greatest problem facing today's graduates is that they often find that their education is not usable in the job market. alarming figures for youth unemployment support this, and the effects of the phenomenon are compounded by, for example, a decline in the willingness to have children, a drastic shift in the time for starting a family, and thus a strengthening of adverse demographic trends. the problem is well known both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states, but the solution is primarily in the hands of the latter, since only the member states can carry out the reorganisation, reform and adaptation of national education systems to the new economic and social reality. the eu's role is to provide a framework for the process and to keep it on track, while encouraging and stimulating its member states to carry out reforms that may be difficult to implement in the short term but that will pay off in the long term.
mr president, i would like to ask colleagues to vote in favour of amendment no 1 because it supports the idea of having more funds for innovation policy but delete the wording suggesting that funds from the common agricultural policy ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the zver report. too many young people today are not living up to their full potential in education and training. these issues require harmonised action at eu level so that young people are better prepared for the labour market. we need policies that cover the steps that young people have to take in the transition from education to the moment they enter the workforce. i consider it essential that young people and the various youth organisations are involved in the decision-making process. this strengthens their sense of belonging and ensures that they are actively contributing to a youth strategy. the 'youth on the move' initiative must have as its central objective the extension of european cohesion. the eu must use its own financial instruments to help young people, using the european investment bank and the european investment fund more effectively.
in writing. − support for the youth on the move report is automatic and principled. however, we have tried to make the necessary additions to the commission's proposal. in the report, which was adopted without any problems in the cult committee and in the ep plenary, i stressed the importance of member states being involved in implementation and being supervised by the european commission. in addition, i have called for successful programmes such as those in life long learning to get more funding under the new multiannual financial framework and for good coordination between programmes to be ensured. young people, who are at the heart of this umbrella programme, should be given the attention they deserve, jobs and opportunities should be created for them to assert themselves, because they are the european citizens we will rely on in the future.
in writing. − early learning in children lays the foundation for successful learning throughout their lives. in the first years of life, children show a special curiosity, receptivity and a desire to learn, and this is the age when the ability to speak and express oneself is formed. it is also at this age that the foundations of the child's future educational and professional path are laid, as well as the development of social skills. this period is crucial for cognitive, sensory and motor development, emotional and personal development and language acquisition, laying the foundations for lifelong learning. i would stress that the early development of healthy lifestyles, such as good eating habits and appropriate and balanced physical exercise, can have a crucial impact on physical and mental development. the european union is made up of a rich and diverse mix of educational traditions, with early childhood education being provided in a number of different ways across the territory. i voted in favour of this report which, while recognising that a community approach to early childhood education services would be difficult to achieve, encourages the development of a european framework comprising common objectives and values, including common rights and structures.
in writing. - i voted for mr honeyball's report. europe is made up of a diverse mix of educational traditions. it is therefore necessary to develop a european framework composed of common objectives, rights and values. the europe 2020 strategy should focus on creating an inclusive society through increased employment. reducing school dropout rates and reducing poverty can only be achieved by ensuring that all children have a future open to a better life. i remind you of the importance of early learning activities, especially foreign languages. cultural activities are an essential source of development for children, promoting intercultural dialogue. last but not least, consideration must be given to the variety of living conditions and family environments. to do this, we need flexible and innovative educational programs for preschoolers.
in writing. − europe is made up of a rich and diverse mix of educational traditions, with early childhood education being provided in a number of different ways across the continent. there is a clear difference between member states in terms of the quality and delivery of education, enrolment rates, approach to services, governance of services, and so on. for this reason, a single eu-wide approach to early childhood education and care is not appropriate and would be difficult to achieve. but the development of a common framework of common objectives and values, including common rights and structures is more than recommended. the period from birth to three years of age is critical for the brain, physical and cognitive development and language acquisition of a child. these early years also lay the foundation for children's lifelong learning. poor families are less likely to use early childhood education and care services, especially in privatised markets, compared to other groups. this is worrying given that disadvantaged children are those who have been shown to benefit the most from access to this type of service.
in writing. − it is known that children show a strong curiosity, receptivity and willingness to learn in the early years of life and that this is the age when the ability to speak and express oneself and social skills are formed and, as learning in the early years of children's lives lays the foundations for successful learning throughout their lives, a process that is essential for achieving the europe 2020 goals, i believe that the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to create an inclusive society by increasing employment, lowering drop-out rates and reducing poverty, can only be achieved if all children are given a proper start in life.
in writing. − it is very important to support a uniform policy and approach across eu member states on early learning. access to this type of learning has important economic, social and cultural benefits. in addition to a uniform policy at european union level, it is particularly important that there is good collaboration and coordination at local level between the various institutions and ministries involved in programmes for the education of young people. these programmes are very important because preschool children have a special capacity for learning and can determine their entire educational and professional path.
in writing. − early education has profound implications for the future development of the child and his or her chances of success. investing in this period reduces subsequent costs related to health, crime rate and anti-social behaviour. however, early childhood education is not provided in the same way throughout the european union. a one-size-fits-all approach would be difficult to achieve, however. i think we need to focus instead on a common framework with clearly defined objectives and values. the 2002 target requires eu member states to provide pre-school education for 90% of children aged three up to the age of compulsory schooling. the reason is also economic, given the increasing number of women in the labour market. it is essential to involve the minority population in early education programmes and, even more so, the roma population, which is often disadvantaged. we also need to ensure that there are enough places for care to avoid long waiting periods for the child to be enrolled in this type of institution. the qualification of staff working with young children, whose impact on the quality of education is decisive, should not be overlooked.
in writing. − early years learning profoundly affects the life-chances of every individual. in particular, development in the early years of healthy lifestyle behaviours, such as good dietary habits and regular exercise, are key determinants of physical and mental health. like all policies which work on the principle that ‘prevention is better than cure’, early years learning is also relatively cost-effective to deliver. i congratulate the rapporteur on a comprehensive report which raises some key points for further discussion and action.
in writing. − equal access to eu public sector markets and the revision of the legal framework on public procurement are absolutely necessary to stimulate the internal market of the union and the member states, which drives social and economic integration at european level. in view of the economic and financial crisis, i consider the strategy proposed in this resolution, namely to ensure a better coherence of the common european external trade policy, to be indispensable. i stress the importance of this legislative review for the revitalization and stabilisation of the economy in the european union.
in writing. − public procurement provides a unique opportunity to channel investment into projects for the common benefit of citizens whilst, at the same time, achieving wider public policy objectives. i would like to underline the importance of public procurement contracts in promoting environmental standards in buildings and transport, and the potential that this has to improve energy efficiency and therefore reduce carbon emissions, operating costs and air pollution. i urge the member states to use public procurement contracts to pursue these objectives, which will have wide-reaching and long-term social, economic and environmental benefits.
in writing. − given that energy is an important factor in the operating costs of the fisheries sector and that the recent increase in fuel prices has led to a deterioration in the situation in the fisheries sector and has directly affected production costs in this sector, i believe that the european commission should examine the means of urgently taking appropriate measures to alleviate the difficult economic situation in which many european fishermen find themselves, also taking into account the financial difficulties currently faced by several countries with large fishing fleets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution and against all the amendments tabled. in the fisheries sector, new support measures are needed, given the combination of two factors - the high oil price on the one hand, and the low price at the first sale of fish on the other. fisheries is an important economic sector for the european union and needs support, as the average price of oil will remain between $80 and $100 per barrel.
in writing. − the small business act is based on a number of pillars, such as access to finance, access to the single market, international markets and public procurement. progress in the member states in taking concrete measures to improve the business climate for small and medium-sized enterprises is not uniform and sometimes even marginal, despite the stated political commitments to the principles contained in this document. in the european union, 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises, representing around 99% of all enterprises and providing over 100 million jobs, make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. smes face significant challenges in expanding their activities, improving their innovation capacity and accessing markets. i therefore urge member states to adopt without delay the proposal on the european private company statute, which would allow smes to do business across the eu, while reducing costs and encouraging growth in this area, promoting a 25% reduction in administrative burdens and boosting business activities. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − i voted for the parliament's resolution on the review of the small business act because there are still important steps to be taken to facilitate the smooth functioning of smes in the eu. smes are what we call, in economic terms, the 'backbone of the eu'. thus, 99% of all european enterprises are smes, providing over 100 million jobs. the european union encourages their development, but at national level smes still face difficulties in obtaining funding or administrative burdens that often exceed the requirements of european directives. i therefore voted for a step-up of efforts by member states to better implement the principles contained in the sba.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the revision of the draft small business act because i believe that the european union must continue the process of strengthening support mechanisms to remove obstacles to the sustainable development of smes so that their potential can be fully exploited. taking into account the vital role of smes for the european economy and their contribution to stimulating economic growth, employment and social cohesion, it is necessary to implement actions aimed at ensuring an optimal framework for the development of smes. in this context, i would like to stress the need for member states to step up their efforts to support policies aimed at promoting entrepreneurship, creating a business-friendly environment for smes. the key role that the exchange of good practice plays in these policies should also be taken into account. improving smes' access to finance and the single market, reducing red tape and better enforcement of the small business act by member states must be priorities at national and european level.
in writing. − europe has been, is and will remain a cradle of innovation, education, research and world culture. one thing is certain, and it is clear from the commission's communication: europe is not short of potential, whether human, technical, commercial or financial. the question is: what is europe doing to use human potential first? how will europe maintain the human resources so necessary for innovation in european schools, universities and research centres? before we focus on attracting specialists from outside the european area, a priority in my view is to stop the exodus of researchers from europe to other major centres worldwide. a modernised education system across europe, a strong focus on the research results themselves and, of course, easier access to european cross-border research programmes can increase innovation in the eu. but to keep the human resources here, europe must focus on the following: making a tempting offer to researchers, an offer they cannot refuse. convince them, on all levels, that there's no place like home.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'an innovation union' because it underlined the importance of innovation in laying the foundations for a sustainable and competitive economic model and in creating new jobs in the european union. i also tabled an amendment to this report, together with other colleagues, expressing my disagreement with the financing of innovation policy with money previously earmarked for the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it brings viable solutions to improve research and innovation in the european union and, by implication, creates the conditions for a return to growth and job creation. stimulating investment in research, improving access to diversified finance for smes, and improving cooperation between academia, research and government are measures that will lead to the development of creativity and innovation in the medium and long term. particular attention should be paid to balancing the innovation and research potential between the different member states and regions, as there is currently a significant gap between them, which affects the whole union.
in writing. − innovation can bring the european union's development and reinvention beyond this period of crisis. however, we must be extremely realistic and propose concrete working tools that make it possible to link innovation efforts at european, national and regional level. european innovation policy should focus primarily on the formulation and specific delivery of objectives relating to the major challenges facing the european union. i believe that there is a need to reassess the complexity of the tasks and responsibilities of local and regional public administration authorities. we must then provide quality technical assistance and financial support to ensure adequate administrative capacity where needed.
in writing. − antibiotic resistance is an animal health issue facing the european livestock sector, particularly in the event of therapeutic failure. guidelines on the prudent use of these substances have been issued in many member states, which have led to a reduction in their use. when used correctly, antimicrobials are a useful tool to help farmers maintain animal health and productivity and ensure animal welfare. although these substances are prescribed for veterinary use, they affect both humans and animals. the main objective of this motion for a resolution is to maintain antimicrobials as an effective tool for combating disease in animals and humans, keeping the use of antimicrobials within the limits strictly necessary. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance (amr) is an animal health issue facing the european livestock sector, especially as guidance on the prudent use of antimicrobials has already been issued in several member states, leading to a reduction in the use of antimicrobials. as the main objective of farmers is to maintain the health and productivity of animals through good agricultural practices (hygiene, proper feeding, adequate growing conditions, responsible animal health management), i believe that more research is needed on new antimicrobials, on alternatives to them (vaccination, biosecurity, resistance breeding) and on scientifically based strategies for the prevention and control of infectious diseases in animals, as part of the european union's research framework programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. at european level, 25 000 people die each year from causes related to or associated with antimicrobial resistance. animals and animal foods could play a role in the transfer of antimicrobial resistance to humans, therefore antibiotics in animal husbandry should be used with caution. the measures proposed by this resolution concerning better information for veterinarians and farmers should be implemented as actively as possible.
in writing. − the fundamental aspect of european culture is that it does not aim to be a simplified culture in its external relations, but a living culture, living in its own particular details. as we speak of european values, rights and freedoms, we must also speak of european cultures, their diversity, their creative plurality and the role of european ambassador that each national cultural creator can play in promoting the whole. before we start promoting cultures outside the european area, we must want to know for ourselves all those cultural elements that make europe special. and in this sense, the best ambassador of european cultures is, in my opinion, every citizen of the union. provided that he is given, in advance, the easiest opportunity to learn about the cultural richness of the area in which he lives.
in writing. − unfortunately, there is currently no coherent and coordinated strategy on the role of culture in the eu's external actions. but as we know, our interests can best be promoted when we speak with one voice. the common foreign policy must be based on cultural diplomacy, because europe's position in the world can be strengthened through culture as an integral part of economic, development and security policies. we will ensure a better understanding of our continent through the distribution of films, music and literature. the eu's diverse cultural landscape also makes it the world's most attractive tourist destination. i appreciate the provision in this report that sets out concrete suggestions to include civil society, artists, teachers, students and entrepreneurs in the process of shaping external cultural relations. it is also essential to take account of the immense potential of new technologies, which are both a source of information and a channel for facilitating freedom of expression. i think it would be useful for the european parliament to include culture on the agenda of discussions with other parliaments of the world, to help shape a general practice in european external action.
in writing. − in europe, the cultural sector plays a key role and is a magnet for citizens, businesses and investment, thus making europe a dynamic and stimulating place where people like to live and work. it is clear that if europe is to succeed through a creative, knowledge-based economy, the contribution of a vibrant and growing cultural sector is essential to this end. the cultural sector also attracts skilled and creative people. at present, the cultural and creative industries are also recognised as important vectors of economic and social innovation in many other sectors. there are already countries that are already making the most of the multiple resources of the cultural and creative industries, but the european union still needs to develop a strategic approach that will turn its cultural assets into the foundations of the energy and creativity of its economy and the cohesion of society. the european commission's green paper launches a timely debate to 'unlock the potential of the cultural and creative industries' and formally recognises the importance of this sector. in the union, since the 1990s, the growth of cultural and creative industries has been exponential in terms of job creation and contribution to gdp.
in writing. − what distinguishes the european continent from other regions of the world is precisely the cultural component of our common heritage. at a time of great economic challenges, it is important to think about ways to unlock the potential of the cultural and creative industries, especially as a significant number of european citizens are engaged in such activities. let us not forget that the creative sector contributes significantly to the development of information and communication technologies, but also to economic and social innovation. this area still raises a number of issues that need to be clarified. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market and the digital single market in the field of culture and media, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital content and media, including the digital content of cultural events and events. in this context, we also talk about resolving the issue of copyright, the financing of the cultural and creative industries, the mobility of artists or the dissemination of cultural productions. a relevant example is that of cinema, with european films - including a number of romanian productions - winning prestigious awards at the relevant festivals.
the un report's conclusions, published on april 25, 2011, make serious allegations of widespread violations of human rights and international law by both the sri lankan government and defeated rebel forces in the more than 28-year-long civil conflict. thus, according to the report, government forces have killed tens of thousands of civilians by bombing populated areas, hospitals, and even humanitarian relief centers of the united nations. on the other hand, rebel forces used many civilians as human shields, shooting those who tried to escape the conflict zone. i think, like other colleagues who have spoken before me, that there is a need to set up an independent international mechanism to investigate war crimes in this country and other serious human rights violations. what is needed is an impartial and transparent investigation to clarify who is responsible for these crimes that have shocked the international community.
the author. - i'll start with the happy things, namely the release of the two bloggers, adnan hajizade and emin mili, that we discussed here. but otherwise, the situation is more than worrying in azerbaijan, we have harassment of journalists, we have intimidation of human rights defenders, conviction of them on criminal grounds. in addition, the 200 arrests following the recent protests in baku in march and april all raise serious questions, especially since, we must not forget, azerbaijan is a signatory to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. it seems that the azerbaijani authorities did not understand that there is a need for a dialogue between them and civil society, and not for pressure from the authorities to society. i hope that eventually, however, we can have cooperation within the eastern partnership and in the parliamentary dimension called euronest.
azerbaijan, as an active partner of the european union in the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership, and as a founding member of euronest, must respect its commitments to the european union. respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and other international treaties to which azerbaijan is a party. a country that aspires to become a globally recognized democracy cannot function without allowing its citizens to peacefully express themselves, especially its youth, and it is not right that they should be barred from entering exams just because they hold different political views from the country's current leaders. we, the european partners, want azerbaijan to have a continuous dialogue with civil society, the press to be able to express itself freely and to report without political pressure, to inform public opinion correctly, to have free and uncensored access to the internet, to facilitate communication between azerbaijan and europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, developments in azerbaijan regarding democracy and human rights continue to be a matter of serious concern to all of us. over the last few years we have noted a worrying trend of increasing restrictions in this domain. parliamentary elections held on 7 november 2010 were not sufficient to constitute meaningful progress in the democratic development of that country. there are other areas where we believe that azerbaijan needs to improve its record of meeting fully its council of europe and osce commitments. first of all media freedom: there is overall a lack of media pluralism. there are also reports of harassment of and violence against journalists, as well as questionable judicial proceedings against media representatives. individual cases in this field remain a concern. freedom of assembly is another area where i am deeply worried. the recent months have witnessed several severe actions taken by the authorities vis-à-vis organised protests, as well as attempts to organise protests inspired by the arab spring revolutions. the detention of activists and other repressive measures against protesters are deeply deplorable. the european union has a responsibility to convey clear messages on the importance of democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law. such messages were passed on by president barroso himself during his visit to baku in january, and will be high on our agenda for future visits. human rights and democracy are cornerstones in our cooperation with azerbaijan under the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. last year we established a new subcommittee on justice, freedom, security and human rights and democracy. democracy and human rights are also a central theme in our negotiations on a new association agreement. i welcome the willingness of azerbaijan to discuss these methods. i also welcome the role the european parliament plays in advocating democratic values to the partners in azerbaijan, including through its work in the eu-azerbaijan cooperation committee.
, in writing. voices critical of the government are silenced in azerbaijan. the european parliament resolution, as well as reports from human rights organisations, show cases of serious human rights violations. one of them, which i have brought to the council's attention by means of a written question, is that of journalist eynulla fatullayev, who is still in detention, despite a decision by the european court of human rights to release him. we pointed out then and insist on the need to remove from the penal code the provisions on defamation, slander and insult (articles 147-148). a recent report by transparency international on azerbaijan shows that the government is not taking steps to combat corruption and that the independence of the judiciary is not guaranteed. in addition, the authorities have responded to the recent protests on 11 march and 2 april 2011 with arrests and harassment. democracy is based on the free will of the people. i call on the council and the commission to urge the azerbaijani authorities to respect human rights, in particular the right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly, and to take concrete measures to combat corruption and reform the judiciary. the european union must stand with all those who risk their lives and freedom in this country for the values we share.
the author. - in the previous debate, i and several colleagues referred to last week's euronest parliamentary assembly, which, as is well known, took place in the absence of the belarusian members of parliament. it is a justified absence, because the parliamentarians in minsk are not freely elected, and the human rights situation in this country remains more than critical. we were all outraged, i think, by the crackdown on the protesters in december. today, six of president lukashenko's seven opponents are still being tried and persecuted. many others, including staff members of these candidates, are in prison for their participation. i think there are two things that are important: 1. an independent inquiry into the repression is needed; 2. believe that economic sanctions against belarus should be extended to include belarusian state-owned companies, which play an important role in shaping the region.
the international community, including the european union, has for some time been calling on the belarusian authorities to respect their international commitments and to cease repressive measures against opposition representatives, to release protesters arrested during various meetings, to crack down on the free press, civil society activists and human rights defenders, and to allow fair and transparent trials. the belarusian authorities must understand that without respect for human rights and the rule of law, in accordance with the joint declaration of the eastern partnership summit of 7 may 2009, to which the government of belarus is a co-signatory, the european union will not make any possible commitment of support.
in writing. – recycling and prevention of waste, air emissions and climatic change and sustainable consumption and production could be monitored much more effectively if high-quality data were available regarding the interaction between environmental and economic factors. the relevant data collection, which has been made on a voluntary basis until today at eu level, should therefore become mandatory. moreover, environmental data currently available should be expanded in the medium term to facilitate the necessary policy assessment of european environmental policy. the proposed regulation establishes in this respect a common framework for the collection, compilation, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts by providing common european-wide methodology, common standards, definitions, classifications and accounting rules for compiling these accounts. the regulation concerns the collection and compilation of data regarding air emissions, environmental taxes applicable to various economic sectors and macroeconomic material flow accounting. accurate and adequate statistical data on energy and resource consumption are fundamental if we want to get indicators for progress and well-being beyond the gdp. moreover, a sound assessment of the european environmental policy is only possible if reliable data is available.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mr audy on his work on this report. the ability to unite and coordinate our research efforts is a condition for our economic competitiveness. i support the idea that better coordination, coherence and synergy of framework programme 7 with the structural and cohesion funds can also facilitate the participation of the currently under-represented member states. collaborative research at transnational level must remain a priority. member states must cooperate and not compete. the success rate, which has been modest so far, can be improved by simplifying administrative and financial rules. to conclude in english: earlier this year, commissioner quinn stated that we need to send red tape to the shredder. we need simple and clear rules, consistently and rigorously applied. today i ask you, madam commissioner, to help us move from words to action. thank you. thank you.
in the current context and with a view to achieving the eu 2020 targets, it is necessary that framework programme 7 respond to the current challenges. simplifying access to finance for smes is an opportunity for them to develop new types of services and products. the level of financial contribution, the documentation to be submitted, access to information and expert advice must be realistic because otherwise, regardless of the objectives, it will not be possible to create the framework for sme access to this programme. in addition, i believe it is essential to give greater importance to the development of research at regional level by encouraging multi-level partnerships and supporting the development of guides or methodological guidance in this regard. we cannot achieve objectives without clearly defining procedures and encouraging or supporting useful tools.
the competitiveness of the european union is not optional. the european union must be internationally competitive and that is why we must invest in research and innovation. unfortunately, research programme beneficiaries use several sources of national and community funding, but all these sources of funding often have different procedures and rules, which makes it difficult to access european funds and complicates the situation of beneficiaries by different rules that have to be mastered. we also believe that the development of research and innovation in the european union can only be achieved by reducing red tape, simplifying and converging procedures, developing applied research and facilitating access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. we regret that the economic and financial crisis has led to member states cutting budgets for education and research, and we call on member states to invest as a priority in education during the crisis, since the quality of research and innovation depends on it. i thank the rapporteur, mr audy, for accepting the amendment by which i asked the commission to introduce more money into framework programme 7 for research and development of gnss applications and services.
in writing. the attractiveness of the seventh framework programme for research has not been fully demonstrated in the industrial sector. in addition to the need for new funds, there is a need for better coordination between the union, the member states and the regions in research, development and innovation (rdi). first, the link between the cohesion funds and the research framework programme needs to be improved. i stress the importance of cohesion policy, as it has become a major source of european support for research and innovation. secondly, research and innovation policies must be adapted to the specific needs of the market. in order to market the results of innovation, the demand for innovative technologies on the eu market needs to be identified. i believe that adequate financial instruments should be available to support the successful introduction of innovative technologies to the eu market. last but not least, i would mention that the financial share in the eu is highly unbalanced, and the results show that the old member states absorb the largest part of the financial resources. this is contrary to the objective of territorial cohesion of the geographically balanced development of the member states, as stated in the treaty of lisbon.
i believe that the eu-canada trade relationship is at a crossroads at this moment. the signing of the economic agreement is still being negotiated and the priorities of the two sides must be included in the final document. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to the differences in health regulations. a consensus would avoid the negative impact on the european agricultural sector. the agreement must also take account of the results of the reform of the common agricultural policy. the clarifications on the sustainable development chapter are important. the eu has built its environmental standards according to the requirements of the member states. verification of their compatibility with those proposed by canada is essential for the effectiveness of the final agreement. i believe that the influence of the drilling and bituminous studies on the negotiations must also be carefully examined, and that the commission should therefore clarify the place of the fuel quality directive in this document.
canada is currently the 11th most important trading partner for the european union, with trade relations between the european union and canada accounting for approximately 1.6% of the european union's total external trade in 2010. 26% of eu imports from canada and 37% of eu exports to canada in 2010 related to trade in transport machinery and equipment. i would like to know what the impact of this agreement is on the european union's industrial policy strategy and on the european union's strategy on raw materials and rare earths. as regards the liberalization of services, because it has been mentioned here, i would like to ask you, commissioner, what will be the link between this agreement and the agreements on civil aviation safety and the air transport agreement between the european union and canada. both agreements are aimed at the competitiveness of the european and canadian markets in this area, they are extremely important for the air transport sector and so i would like to ask what is the impact of the trade agreement on other agreements already signed between the european union and canada.
i too would like to stress the importance of finalising the negotiations on the eu-canada economic and trade agreement, which would strengthen the already significant trade and economic relations and bring about beneficial effects. but in the negotiations, the european executive must seek to promote an ambitious trade agreement that supports fair trade and contains legally binding social and environmental protection elements. the agreement should not jeopardise the union's ability to review the fuel quality directive and to refuse to import oil from oil sands, which produces more carbon dioxide than conventional oil extraction and has major adverse environmental effects. by rejecting this type of oil, the european union would remain credible in its desire to protect the environment and to respect the objectives of the kyoto protocol.
the ceta agreement is a very important step towards a productive future for both the european union and canada. i support this project, i am very pleased with the progress made so far and i believe we are on track to conclude the negotiations this year. i would point out, however, that among the many points under debate there are two which must be resolved in order not to create problems at the time of ratification by some member states if they remain unresolved. these are oil shale exploitation, which can be a danger to the environment as well as to local communities in the area, and the lack of reciprocity in the case of visa requirements for bulgarian, romanian and czech citizens.
the current drought across europe, and the forecast for the period ahead, are fuelling concerns about a further rise in food prices and food security. in these circumstances, i believe that the european commission should ensure that european subsidies are paid in advance to help farmers who have to use existing irrigation systems, thus avoiding total loss of this year's crops. in parallel with this measure, solutions to support the implementation of irrigation systems where their use is necessary should be considered. in romania, 30% of the land is irrigated and the lack of water and the drought create problems similar to those in other member states, but without being able to come to the aid of farmers with this rescue measure in this situation.
i would like to bring up the recent events in the world of football and in particular the election of sepp blatter as head of fifa. i think this re-election is unfortunate given that fifa was facing serious allegations of corruption, especially with regard to the 2022 world cup in qatar. i believe that the governments of the member states should demand a reform of fifa and a regulation of its activities, which could bring more transparency and allow such unfortunate events to be avoided, restoring confidence in fifa. football has become more and more a business. the lack of transparency and corruption allegations are a phenomenon that affects romanian football as well. recently, the team poli timisoara, who finished the championship in second place in romania and who were going to play in the champions' league, was relegated to the third league by a decision at the green table. this unfair decision will affect hundreds of thousands of fans of the timisoara team. i also appeal from this podium to the romanian football authorities to correct this decision and allow the poli timisoara team to remain in the forefront of romanian and european football.
multiculturalism assumes that people living side by side know each other's history, culture and even language. the absence of this reciprocity explains the hysteria we have witnessed in romania in recent days. two romanian counties have opened representative offices in brussels. one of the reporters in the capital said that the problem is that the majority of the population in the two counties are of a different ethnicity than the majority. is that a problem in europe today? similarly, it is sickening to think that a neighbor would forbid him to remember the day he lost his possessions, his land, or perhaps his family. we had an example of this on the days when we commemorated the treaty of trianon, which ended world war i, on june 4. the antidote to exclusionary, silent thinking, the denial of the past, the denial of the existence and development of a region is an open, inclusive, respectful of cultural values, respectful of the rights of minorities, a strong europe.
in publishing its 2010 world press freedom index, reporters without borders drew attention to the decline of freedom of expression in the european union. romania is ranked 52nd, down 10 places from 2007. the situation is worrying and raises questions about the effective respect of the right to freedom of expression and information guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights in the european union. in romania, the press has been listed by the country's president as a national security vulnerability. in addition, policymakers have a constantly disparaging discourse to the media. such a departure from democratic principles damages the image of the european union as a whole. we risk losing our credibility as advocates of human rights abroad because of internal shortcomings, and that is why i am calling for a real protection of freedom of expression and media pluralism at european level.
this is the second time i have brought before the european parliament the disastrous situation created in the health insurance system in romania. unfortunately, this time, negotiations between the professional associations of family doctors, the ministry of health and the health insurance house have reached an impasse, which has resulted in the blockage of the health system and the denial of the legal rights of patients who, although they continue to pay contributions for health insurance, can no longer benefit from these facilities. this situation is the result of the stubbornness of the health insurance company not to negotiate in realistic terms with family doctors to draft a framework contract of operation, for the benefit of all parties involved, and, if it continues, the health system in romania, already weakened, risks disintegration. i would like the relevant european bodies to take note of this situation, monitor it and intervene to unblock it as quickly as possible.
we speak every day in the european parliament, from morning to night, about the construction of europe, about solidarity, about a common culture, about everything that unites us and should motivate us even more to build a common future for all the 27 member states of the european union. while we are discussing the european projects, a vice-president of the same european parliament is discussing, morning and night, every day, the issue of ethnic segregation, the decline of the influence and the undermining of the authority of one state within its borders in favour of another neighbouring state, the secession of territories belonging to one member state of the european union and their annexation to another member state of the same european union. in my own name, but also in the name of the romanian social democrats meps, i ask for the resignation of lászló tőkés as vice president.
football is indeed a religion, but it's the religion the devil sticks his tail into most. why would you do that? because there is a lot of money involved that is the tax on the boredom and loneliness of billions of people on the planet. just these summer days in romania, the drama of a much-loved football team, politehnica timisoara, is consuming. by their own efforts, honestly, this team has earned the right to evolve into a european cup. but what he gained on the green grass, he loses on the green table. specifically, the mafia at the top of romanian football shook hands with the mafia at the top of international football and decided on a double and drastic sanction: the elimination of that team from european cups and its relegation to a lower division of amateurs. whatever financial and legal pretexts are invoked, the punishment is barbaric and strikes not only this beautiful team but a beautiful city of over 300,000 citizens, who have little else to rejoice about. as a member of the european parliament's committee on culture and education, i am sounding the alarm to stop this terrible injustice which can have considerable social consequences.
the credit rating industry is affected by numerous shortcomings, the most important of which are lack of competition, transparency and oligopolistic structures. the increase in competition would be achieved by creating a regulatory environment that promotes market entry. it would carry out a detailed analysis of the current obstacles. i stress the importance of following the evolution of the basel iii system and the process related to the capital requirements directive iv. increased responsibility and competence for monitoring internal models and imposing preventive measures is needed. all credit rating agencies must comply with the highest standards of disclosure, transparency and conflict of interest management. romania's rating currently has a stable outlook. it could increase if the pace of structural reforms and financial sector stability is maintained.
in writing. before lehman brothers went bankrupt, it was rated highly by the major credit rating agencies. the three largest commercial banks in iceland were considered to be sound just days before they collapsed. the downgrade of greece's rating also did not take into account the start of its economic recovery programme. the economic and financial crisis has highlighted the oligopolistic structure, lack of competition, transparency and accountability of the cras. in a world dominated by three such institutions, there is a need for more diversity and a new way of working. i therefore support the idea of creating a public european credit rating agency as an alternative to private institutions of this type. obtaining a rating from the european agency would become mandatory and would complement the ratings proposed by traditional agencies, encouraging competition for the fairest rating.
european statistics show that more than half of the union's workers, especially immigrants, do not benefit from social protection. i therefore believe that the social protection of workers in the european union needs to be promoted by common basic standards, along with the imposition of sanctions for breaches of the legislation in force. the ratification of the revised european social charter would give a boost to internal social reforms in the member states of the union and facilitate the process of harmonising national legislation with community rules. it means a political commitment to promote and ensure social standards by adapting legal and institutional mechanisms to the standards and values specific to european democracies. the social rights laid down in this treaty correspond to community social law and standards in the member states of the european union.
i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and at the same time ask the european commission to take the necessary measures so that european companies respect european principles and values also when they operate in other countries. the european union must promote the european social model and that is why it is of the utmost importance to respect the principles and values of the european union. we regret that the european union does not have a uniform formula for introducing a social clause in all bilateral trade agreements. i should like to point out, commissioner, that a horizontal agreement on civil aviation between the european union and canada was recently voted on. it is the most ambitious agreement of its kind signed by the european union, yet it does not contain any social clauses. both sides are committed to work and build in this area, but unfortunately i would like to stress that we regret that the european union does not have a uniform formula for introducing a social clause in international agreements.
eradicating poverty is a key objective of the eu internationally. the implementation of this instrument contributes to the union's presence in the un and to the achievement of the millennium development goals. the eu also has the external competences to achieve this objective with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. in the future, a clarification of the geographical and thematic priorities of the new fund is needed in order to make it more effective. thus, vulnerable social groups, developing and emerging countries should be included in the list of financed development objectives. the strengthening of the sme sector and the national private sector will be encouraged to raise the standard of living in the states included in this programme. this will reduce dependence on external assistance and boost domestic economic growth.
the european union can help developing countries to fight poverty, and i believe that actions to help developing countries to combat climate change are also extremely important for the achievement of the millennium development goals. there are eu actions in this area, covering agriculture, climate change adaptation, forestry, as well as marine and coastal resources management and water management. in 2006, the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund was established to mobilise private investment in energy efficiency projects and the promotion of renewable energy in developing countries and countries with economies in transition. the 'energy - climate change' package also provides for the introduction of the 'clean development mechanism', which allows member states to make energy-efficient investments and use carbon credits in developing countries.
as the rapporteur has also stressed, poverty eradication is one of the main objectives of the financing instrument for development cooperation, launched by the european union to support developing countries. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. this requires the european union to react flexibly and rapidly, to respond to sudden changes in needs and priorities, but also to ensure coherence with the new international objectives to be defined. in this process, the european parliament must continue to support the commission's efforts in programming development cooperation policies and strengthen its role in the democratic and budgetary control procedure.
in writing. despite having an internal market, businesses and consumers are not taking full advantage of its opportunities, with the proportion of cross-border transactions still quite low. the relaunch of the internal market requires the stimulation of crossborder transactions and i believe that this report contributes to this objective. obviously, we must respect the diversity of the legal systems of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity, and for that reason total harmonisation does not seem to me to be the most appropriate option. on the other hand, the optional application of common rules for cross-border contracts seems to me a viable alternative. furthermore, i believe that if a member state wishes to extend the application of european law to transactions at national level, it should be free to do so. it is very true that this is not the solution to all problems. there are other obstacles to cross-border transactions besides these differences in contract law, such as taxation, intellectual property or the availability of electronic means of payment. however, i believe that this optional instrument is worth trying as it can remove some of the administrative burden that currently prevents smes from expanding their business in member states other than their home member state.
investing in education is essential for a better future for europeans. today, at european level, the youth unemployment rate has reached 20%, and the average drop-out rate at european level is 16%, and in some countries, such as portugal, it has reached 40%. lifelong learning is essential if unemployment is to be prevented, and we must take due account of the different career paths. workers must be made more aware of the need for continuous improvement. we believe that education and training should be accessible, available and affordable at all stages of life, regardless of people's status in the labour market and their income. vocational education and training should create the conditions for labour mobility, both during initial studies and in the lifelong learning process. we call on the member states to simplify the procedures for the recognition of qualifications.
one of the great challenges facing europe today is youth unemployment. at eu level, the focus is on reducing the school drop-out rate to below 10% and 'new skills for new jobs' actions, which aim to bring the world of education and training closer to the labour market. the distinction between education and training, together with their context in the workplace, will become increasingly blurred in the future, and achieving greater integration will require a fundamental shift in the way education and training is conceived, not only from an individual perspective, but also at institutional level and at all levels of government. i therefore believe that the systemic and attitudinal barriers to integration must be removed if europeans who learn are to move up the skills and values ladder and contribute effectively to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. in the current context of the economic and financial crisis, with unemployment, especially among young people, exceeding 20% at european level and even 30% in some member states, improving education and training must become a priority for the european union. in this context, the mobility of young people within the eu, combined with the flexibility of the labour market and the provision of education and training, are the fundamental elements that should be developed at european and national level. the permanent and structured dialogue between universities, research centres and enterprises can make it possible to make a real link between the needs of employers and the skills acquired during education and training cycles. furthermore, developing mobility at eu level by deepening programmes such as erasmus, leonardo da vinci or youth on the move can also help to improve the eu's capacity to be more responsive to the demands of the european labour market and to have a higher potential for innovation in this area. moreover, special attention should be paid to disadvantaged social groups who should have equitable access to education and training.
in writing. a first clarification that is necessary, because there was a remark in the hall, is that in the face of such a crisis, agricultural policy is not the problem, but rather the solution. european consumers have become accustomed to looking with confidence at the food they find on store shelves precisely because european producers are obliged to comply with the highest standards in the world. but this crisis has shown that the european system is not infallible and that we are extremely vulnerable. indeed, we must now think first of the victims. what happened is a tragedy. at the same time, we must also think about the support measures that are needed to avoid the loss of thousands of jobs in agriculture and, above all, the destruction of an entire sector.
the inclusion of the external-cost charge in the toll allows member states to introduce this charge for the use of the trans-european road network or certain sections thereof and in any other additional sections of their own motorway networks which are not part of the trans-european road network. we do not support the voluntary introduction of tariff barriers which will increase the costs of transport operators in peripheral member states and thus the prices of the products transported. while the directive should not allow discrimination based on the nationality of the carrier, article 7k allows member states introducing a system of tolls and/or infrastructure charges to provide adequate compensation for these charges, which may distort competition. i believe that the revenue generated by the infrastructure charge and the external-cost charge should be used to support the trans-european transport network, improve road safety and provide safe parking places, which are absolutely necessary to comply with the applicable social legislation.
in writing. − the republic of croatia is an important transit route for illicit drugs from producer countries to consumer countries. this is evidenced by the seizures of significant quantities of cocaine in croatia, most of which are linked to maritime transport. according to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, no survey on the use of illicit drugs by the general population has been carried out in croatia. but the most recent drug-related deaths data from 2008 show 87 cases. the quantities of drugs seized have been steadily increasing. the training of police officers and the provision of necessary equipment continued. however, the results of drug-related crime investigations and prosecutions need to be significantly strengthened. croatia remains one of the main routes for drug trafficking into the eu. in these circumstances, the participation of the republic of croatia in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is a positive development for the union as a whole. thus, croatia's participation in the observer's work programme implies connecting to the european information network on drugs and drug addiction and exchanging data with the emcdda.
in writing. − this proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of croatia on the participation of the republic of croatia in the activities of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) is important as croatia is one of the main ports of entry for drugs into europe. in order to effectively combat drug trafficking, which is a threat not only to croatia but also to the european union, it is important that croatia is also connected to the european information network on drugs and drug addiction (reitox) and is actively and directly involved in the exchange of data with the emcdda. this data exchange helps to create a database for analysing drug demand and drug trafficking ancillary phenomena, which is essential for the publication of objective, factual and comparable information at european level.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mrs auconie. i welcome this proposal to extend the scope to crossborder transport of euro cash by road. the territory of the member states which are about to introduce the single currency must be included in the cash transport system. within the euro area, it should be possible to contract with the best-priced cash transport company, even if it is located in another member state. this will allow access to the most efficient cash collection and delivery and cash services circuits. in the future, more and more cash transfers in euro will be required in the run-up to the changeover. in addition, a large number of euro area member states have concluded or may wish to conclude agreements for the production of banknotes and coins abroad.
in writing. − this european parliament resolution is important because sgns (global navigation satellite system) is applicable to all modes of transport (land, sea, air), making traffic more efficient, helping economic growth and reducing pollution. the sgns is also one of the key objectives of the eu 2020 innovation strategy. for this global navigation system to be properly and uniformly implemented in all eu member states, more annual funds are needed than are currently available. this motion for a resolution suggests, among other things, the allocation of funds for the research and development of new sgns applications that may have applicability in areas such as climate change, agriculture, civil defence, natural disaster alert systems, etc. last but not least, the development of an eu-wide sgns system guarantees the eu's independence from similar navigation systems abroad.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, increased the number of situations in which parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of an international agreement. the commission therefore takes the view that the commission's approach to prepare an own-initiative report with a view to establishing certain general principles concerning how air transport agreements should be assessed is natural. global agreements with neighbouring countries or important global partners can provide substantial benefits, offering passengers and freight operators improved services both in terms of diversity and costs while allowing new opportunities and a competitive advantage for airlines. and regulatory convergence can make a significant contribution to promoting fair competition, in particular with regard to state subsidies and social and environmental standards. it is regrettable that the council has not yet given the commission a mandate to negotiate a comprehensive air transport agreement with important trading partners such as the people's republic of china and india, despite the proposal in 2005. the economic development of this region increases the value of such agreements.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty establishes new parliamentary powers, giving the european parliament greater decision-making power and responsibility for ensuring the smooth running of affairs, information and security of citizens. the convergence of the regulations of the competent committees of the european parliament, as well as the mutual recognition of safety and security rules and the highest possible standard of international air transport agreements, bring benefits to passengers and cargo operators, both logistically and economically, and to airlines.
in writing. - i voted against the el khadraoui report on heavy goods vehicle taxation because the proposal allows the introduction of tariff barriers which will increase the costs of transport operators in peripheral member states. the directive will also allow member states to offer compensation in exchange for these charges, which could lead to distortions of competition between european operators from different member states.
in writing. − a sound scientifically-based approach to resource and ecosystem scarcity is essential for the sustainable economic development of the european union. economic accounts for the environment constitute an important database for environmental policy decisions. the need for these accounts is the result of the crucial functions of the environment in terms of economic performance and the generation of welfare for the citizens of the european union. these functions include the provision of natural resources for production and consumption activities, the absorption of waste by ecological environments, and life-sustaining environmental services. it is very important that these european environmental and economic accounts are actively used in all relevant european decision-making processes as a key element for impact assessments, action plans, legislative proposals and other important outputs of the decision-making process. i voted in favour of this report. environmental accounts describe the interactions between the business, household and environmental environments. they should therefore contribute to policy evaluation, in particular in providing data on the environmental effects of economic activities.
in writing. − assessing european environmental policy is only possible if reliable data are available. the obligation for member states to collect such data is therefore an essential step. environmental data currently available at european level should be enriched in the medium term by adding information to improve the possibilities for policy evaluation. recycling and waste prevention, air emissions and climate change, and sustainable consumption and production would be much easier to monitor if high-quality data on the interaction between the environment and the economy were available. these data may be collected in the environmental accounts, provided that all member states cooperate and that the harmonisation of the data is fully ensured at union level. the objectives pursued should therefore be specified in a more coherent manner and clear prospects for the development of environmental economic accounts should be set out. the environmental economic accounts should contribute to policy evaluation, in particular by providing data on the environmental effects of economic activities. the relevant information could provide a very valuable basis for environmental policy decisions.
in less than a month, south sudan's independence will be proclaimed, as approved by a landslide in the january referendum. unfortunately, during this time, disputes over the delimitation of the border and the sharing of oil revenues were not resolved. so the new state is born under the specter of conflict and that's why i think it's imperative to step up diplomatic efforts, including by the european union. we appreciate your presence in sudan, as do our colleagues, including the work of mrs. de keyser, but as you know, lately, the situation has worsened dramatically. more than 80,000 people have fled their homes, a sign that a humanitarian crisis is looming. my question to the commissioner is whether the presence of a peacekeeping force in the area is appropriate, given yesterday's un statement, which acknowledged the failure of its forces, which have remained passive in the face of recent tensions.
many welcomed the result of the referendum on south sudan's independence. that would mean the creation of a 54th state on the african continent. what's happening now, though, is a kind of cold shower. we must be very realistic and admit that at this moment the peaceful partition of sudan is in danger. the occupation of the contested abiey region by sudanese government forces on may 21st, the violence that continued yesterday in kadugli shows us that the civil war between north and south can flare up at any time. of course, this must be avoided at all costs and our message must be very clear. the military operations of the sudanese government and militias in abiey constitute a serious breach of the global peace agreement. it must be avoided, we are all convinced working on this, any escalation of violence that could lead to further loss of human life. the security situation must be resolved in accordance with the kadugli and abiey agreements of the beginning of the year, including, i believe, the intervention of a joint security force mandated by the united nations. if these obstacles are overcome, there remain many questions about the viability of the two states that should coexist on the territory of the former sudan. it requires political will and willingness to dialogue because there are a whole series of issues hanging in the balance: common borders, citizenship, international obligations, of course oil resources. on the other hand, i would like to highlight the deteriorating human rights and rule of law situation in sudan, where we have recently witnessed a multiplication of arbitrary arrests. i cannot help but recall that omar al-bashir is still under an international arrest warrant, without the authorities in this country taking that into account. i want to end on a positive note: i want to welcome the release of the three bulgarian hostages who were working for the united nations humanitarian air service, who were kidnapped in january in darfur.
i would like to welcome the statement of the vice-president of the commission in the context of the intensification of the conflict between the two sides. i believe that political leaders must respect the will of the people as expressed in the independence referendum. sudan has a long history of violent internal unrest, and recent developments indicate a return to that past. i would like to stress the particularly difficult situation of the population in the conflict areas. there is a risk of a humanitarian catastrophe if members of the international community do not intervene. moreover, attacks are taking place in areas defended by un troops, endangering the lives of soldiers and the return of refugees. i draw attention to the importance of the gradual disarmament of the groups that are preventing the implementation of the referendum results. the arms trade in the area further encourages rebel movements and compromises the process of establishing independence.
thank you to mr coelho for his work, commitment and outstanding expertise in this report. i also thank the hungarian presidency and commissioner malström for their support for this report. the debate on romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area has been so much hijacked for political purposes that we have almost forgotten what we are really discussing. i would remind everyone that we are really talking about very clear and concrete criteria that any candidate country must meet in order to become a member of the schengen area. there is no moral or legal argument to change the rules of engagement now that it's over. the rules can be improved with the approval of the new schengen evaluation mechanism applicable to all member states, not with double standards. it is time to be honest and to recognise that romania and bulgaria are being blamed for everything that is going wrong at the union level and at the internal level of some of the member states. this is totally unacceptable. romania and bulgaria are not to blame for the european union and certain member states' inability to manage immigration and borders, nor for the extremist and populist drift of some governments that implement anti-immigration policies and consider the mobility of european citizens, especially those of roma ethnicity, a crime. last but not least, the romanian and bulgarian citizens must suffer from the poor personal relations of the national authorities with certain influential european leaders. the european institutions must be the voice of reason, to counteract this diversion that some are trying to create. the european parliament and the council must respect european law and the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must ensure that this is done.
on behalf of the alde group. we are discussing today a dossier which has put on our agenda in recent months several questions of principle. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, for the very professional way in which he has conducted the work of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs so that these principles are respected. it was a pleasure to work with mr. coelho, whose constructive spirit has left its mark on the entire case. on the one hand, we have a matter of principle when we consider whether two member states of the union which meet the criteria for accession to the schengen area should be admitted to the area. the rule says yes. both countries have been assessed on their technical readiness for this accession and the conclusions are categorically positive. our rapporteur went even further and organised working visits himself, accompanied by the alternate rapporteurs, to see how the technical situation was at both the command centres and some border points. on the other hand, the institutional relations between the european parliament and the council were also a matter of principle when it came to meps' access to the documents on the basis of which they had to vote. the council's view that only some members could have access and vote on the matter, while others should raise their hands mimetically, was strongly criticised by the libe committee and i am glad that our view has won the case. institutional cooperation must be fair, rational and democratic. i hope that tomorrow's vote will send a clear and positive message from meps on romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area.
romania's accession to the schengen area is a project that has involved major efforts from the financial, institutional and human point of view and represents one of the most important political objectives for romania. romania has invested over eur 1 billion and the results have been clearly positive in all evaluation reports. all the conditions imposed by the schengen acquis have been fulfilled. romania administers one of the longest external borders in the union and has therefore developed the most modern integrated security system to the standards required by the schengen acquis. romania and frontex have intensified their partnership relations. romania is the second largest contributor of equipment and human resources to frontex operations in greece, after germany. in the event of a massive influx of migrants at the border, specialised immigration and asylum mechanisms have been implemented in partnership with similar institutions in other member states, germany and the netherlands. the fight against illegal trafficking uses all modern methods of investigation and intelligence gathering. a single application has been developed in europe which allows data to be processed in both sis i and sis ii. the maritime border surveillance system was given as an example of good practice. in parallel, the authorities have given special attention to the fight against corruption. the permanent collaboration within the special mechanism set up by the european commission has led to results that prove that romania has the necessary institutional capacity and political will to achieve its justice objectives. i believe that accession to the schengen area is not a gift to romania, but a recognition of its merits and efforts and will bring a clear addition to the security of the union's external borders. mr. coelho, i thank you and congratulate you on the way you handled this case.
i believe that the states which have expressed reservations about romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area should not forget that this process is a legal obligation provided for by the treaty of accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union and which all these countries have assumed by signing the treaty. the european union countries must also be aware that it is in their interest for romania and bulgaria to join schengen, because they will make their own contribution to the security of all the member states, the enlargement of the schengen area aiming to strengthen the process of integration within the european union and the common area of freedom, security and justice. the recognition by the european union evaluation missions of the good functioning of romania and bulgaria's connection to the schengen information system, which operates to the highest security standards, is a strong argument in this regard. through this connection, all eu countries will have access to computerised data on illegal immigrants trying to reach europe and there will be more effective control of the eu's external borders.
mr president, dear colleagues, one month ago i came to brussels by car and at the hungarian border i saw a huge queue of trucks. i recall counting 87. they were from germany, italy, denmark and hungary, loaded with goods which people were waiting for. they were delayed by a procedure which no longer applies in the rest of the european union. i would like to underline the importance of the accession of romania and bulgaria to this important space. it is important for the interests of the whole of europe, because we have to rebuild the trust of our european citizens in the european union and its institutions. you said, madam commissioner, that schengen is an important gift for all european citizens, but it is also an important tool for not ‘less’ but for ‘more’ europe. i strongly believe that the european parliament will adopt this report tomorrow and that the council will act accordingly as soon as possible. (applause)
the coelho report concludes that both romania and bulgaria have demonstrated that they are adequately prepared to apply the provisions of the schengen acquis in a proper manner. however, the date of accession of the two countries to the schengen area is still uncertain, as some member states consider that, despite the repeated assertions of the various eu institutions, accession would cause disruption to the schengen system. recognising the shortcomings of the romanian judiciary, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and the council to the fact that they are called upon to decide on a matter that directly affects the daily lives of 30 million eu citizens. the abolition of internal border controls is a great success of european integration. romanian and bulgarian nationals have a legitimate expectation to enjoy the benefits of the schengen acquis as full citizens of the union. i am firmly of the view that europe as a whole would be stronger if bulgaria and romania could join the schengen area this year.
mr president, today the schengen arrangements are coming under strong pressure. on the one hand, given the current wave of immigrants from north africa, where the eu is encouraging democratic change, some states have asked for, and obtained, a temporary suspension of those arrangements. on the other hand, other states have decided, for reasons which would seem to reflect their own narrow interests towards the applicants, to exploit the fact that romania and bulgaria are not yet part of the area and to try to keep them out, once again. consequently, the rules of the game have been modified during the match, to the disadvantage of the two players. i personally support the positive conclusions of the report and praise the author for them but, although i can understand the political reasons for amending the recommendation – the basis of politics is after all compromise – i cannot ignore the fact that the new conditionality suggested might facilitate a subjective interpretation of it. i pray to god that i am wrong.
the report before us today is objective and fair, and it underlines that romania and bulgaria are technically fully prepared to join the schengen area. moreover, as the evaluation documents show, romania can be an example of good practice in certain aspects. i am firmly convinced that the accession of romania and bulgaria to this area will not adversely affect border security but, on the contrary, will increase the confidence of europeans in the schengen area. there is a lot of talk about mutual trust, and there was talk in this debate. but how can we talk about mutual trust when some member states are changing the rules of the game on the fly by introducing new criteria for schengen membership? the arguments put forward today against romania and bulgaria's accession have not been taken into account in the case of any other state that has joined schengen in the past. the only thing the romanians and bulgarians expect is equal treatment with other states and an objective evaluation according to the same criteria. parliament must send a clear message to the council and insist on a concrete date for accession.
i thank the rapporteur for drawing up a report which is extremely important, but also extremely difficult, because we have controversial positions on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. ladies and gentlemen, i also want to thank all those who have understood that the european union is expanding on the basis of values and, last but not least, the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area is part of the assumption of responsibility in 2004 by the two countries for fulfilling the conditions, which have subsequently been proven to be fulfilled by the european commission's evaluation reports. today i asked a colleague, a member of the european parliament from a country which has a controversial position on our joining the schengen area, what would be the reason why they would oppose it. it appears that the technical conditions are met, but the controversial policy at the national level would be the reason. this cannot be accepted.
mr president, bulgaria and romania proved that they can guarantee the safety of the eu borders and this is fully – i repeat, fully – documented. by the way, the officers arrested in romania and bulgaria were arrested for corruption. can anyone in this house claim that, for instance, a dutch officer, a corrupt dutch officer, would not be arrested for corruption in the netherlands? secondly, romania and bulgaria did not compete to win the top prize of transparency international. they entered the judicial contract and fulfilled all its criteria. now if somebody is trying to change the rules of the game during the game, i think this might be illegal according to eu law and is, anyway, unfair according to common sense.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this very useful debate. there is indeed a clear need to strengthen the trust and faith in schengen by strengthening governance and by strengthening the evaluation mechanism – as the commission proposed long before christmas – with more involvement of independent experts and the commission, and also increased transparency involving parliament in all the steps that are taken there. we also need to become much better in immediately assisting member states which are in difficulties for one or other reason, and we need to clarify under what circumstances border controls might be reintroduced. all this needs to be done. we also need to fight against corruption and to increase the fight. yes, there is corruption in bulgaria and romania, but there is corruption in every member state, and the commission proposed only yesterday a report on how we want to enforce the struggle against corruption. some of you were kind enough to refer to this. but in the meantime we must recognise the enormous efforts that have been made by bulgaria and romania in order to comply with the technical requirements of schengen. they are very clear, they are very transparent. that is why these countries must be given a clear perspective, a clear framework on what is expected of them, so that member states will feel ready to welcome them into the schengen community.
the president of the council. - mr president, it must be a woman. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, first of all, i would like to thank those who have expressed their appreciation for the efforts of the hungarian presidency. it's been very important to us to have your support throughout the last five months. today's debate has also shown that there is a strong majority in the european parliament in favour of romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area. because they did their homework. we have spent the last five months and the rest of the time ahead fighting to get the council to say that romania and bulgaria are ready to join the schengen area in terms of technical standards. both countries have done very serious work. they deserve the highest recognition for their work. it was said by many in the debate, both those in favour of accession and those against it or in favour of postponing it, that mutual trust is the key word in this matter. i agree with that in a very strong way, and the hungarian presidency has been working hard to build trust. what roads have we tried to take? on the one hand, we have been in constant dialogue with both countries concerned. we've been monitoring their efforts, trying to help them figure out how to get more recognition for these efforts. on the other hand, we have been in constant contact with those countries which expressed doubts about the accession of romania and bulgaria. and then we also tried to get these countries to engage with the candidate countries, and so, i can tell you, there was a constant dialogue behind the scenes to get better understanding and mutual trust between the parties. this mutual trust is what most of our policies in the european union are based on, and without it, this political decision requiring unanimity cannot be taken by the member states. it's a time consuming process. we've been given six months to do this. in the course of these six months, i hope we will get to the point, in exactly two days, where the member states say, yes, homework is done. what can help to build mutual trust? on the one hand, this consultation series i mentioned. on the other hand, the two candidate countries must continue their efforts and continually demonstrate their ability to protect the union's external borders. the attitude, the tremendous progress that both countries have shown, this pace, this rhythm must be continued in the near future. on the other hand, i am convinced that the cooperation and control mechanism, which, as you know, is the famous cvm, and which the commission will be presenting in july, can help, even if it is not formally part of the conditions for accession to schengen, and which deals with the very issues raised in this debate. organized crime, the fight against corruption. the commission will issue a certificate for these. we fought so hard to make this a no-go, but yes, building mutual trust will definitely help. so a positive cvm, i am convinced, will also help to promote a positive political decision on the schengen enlargement. if you ask me what the mood is in the european union for all kinds of inclusion, we all know that it's hard to say that the european union is currently in a very inclusive mood. there are a number of comments made in this debate which demonstrate exactly this. for example, some people say that the romanian-bulgarian schengen will be the start of the roma from these two countries. i want to be very clear that free movement is a fundamental principle of the eu, it is valid, it is valid, it is the basis of our policies, it is a right that romanians, bulgarians, and anyone else in every corner of the european union are enjoying right now. anyone is free to go, no visa requirement, anyone who wants to can go now. but i am very proud that under the hungarian presidency the roma strategy was born, which clearly defines the obligations of all member states towards this difficult community. the problem must be tackled at its roots, and by providing them with better employment and educational opportunities, this internal migratory pressure within the union will also be reduced. and allow me to make one more comment. that if anyone were to deny any of our basic freedoms to the most vulnerable, they would be in danger for all of us. finally, since there has been a lot of talk about the fact that the schengen system is undergoing a review, the hungarian presidency has been very clear from the outset, and we will continue to be so. the issue of schengen enlargement must be clearly separated from any other review of the schengen system. let's not confuse the two. we must preserve the acquis of free movement, we must make better use of the instruments we have, for example to better control the external borders together. that's why we're working on the frontex agenda, that's why we're working to reduce the migration pressure in north africa by treating it locally, that's why we have a new neighbourhood policy, that's why we're working to increase the lending capacity of the european investment bank. it's the last minute. there is only one legal problem preventing us from reaching an agreement with you, the usual problem of the 'delegated act', and only then will we be able to look at the schengen system and see where we need to clarify it, where we need to improve it, because we see that there are problems with it, but let us keep this order. mr. president, i have to go. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i am confident that the schengen problem, both in terms of enlargement and in terms of review, will be resolved by the important decisions of the justice and home affairs council in two days' time, but in a way that guarantees the free movement of our citizens.
dear colleagues, i believe that on the basis of the overwhelming majority of positive comments and evaluations in this chamber today by members of parliament, as well as the evaluations of the commission and of council, warm congratulations are due to bulgaria and romania. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on the 8th of june 2011.
in writing. romania and bulgaria have once again proven, if needed, that they are capable of taking all the necessary measures to guarantee a substantial level of security on the eastern border of the european union. given the financial, technical, institutional and administrative effort made by romania to become part of the schengen area, i believe that the positive assessment of this file should be found, in the next period, in the establishment of a clear deadline for accession to this area. changing the rules of the game, escalating eurosceptic rhetoric and the emergence of separate themes related to the need to control illegal immigration should not be mixed. on a technical level, romania is more prepared than ever to be the european union's gendarme on the eastern border. and the double standard in the evaluation of certain parameters is not a worthy and representative feature of the project of a united europe. i am convinced that once romania is integrated into the schengen area, it will prove to all the member states that it is serious and rigorous in guaranteeing the security of its eastern border and, moreover, will convince the whole of europe, through the results achieved, that it has succeeded in increasing the security of the entire community area.
in writing. romania is ready to lift internal controls at land, air and sea borders. following the on-the-spot visits and technical assessments, the rapporteur appointed by the european parliament and the group of experts concluded that romania fulfils all the criteria for accession to the schengen area, as assumed by the 2005 accession treaty. all the shortcomings identified in the past have been remedied and, moreover, in some chapters, my country is given as an example of good practice. as regards the objections raised by some members, i would like to draw attention to the fact that they concern matters which are not directly related to the schengen acquis and cannot be invoked as reasons for blocking romania's access to this area. i understand the concerns of some colleagues about securing the eu's external borders, all the more so as some countries can be considered as preferred destinations for migration flows. however, i would like to remind you that the european rules must be the same for all member states, and cannot be changed during the game, as this would mean discrimination against romanian citizens. in view of the positive technical assessment, the justice and home affairs council should give the green light to romania's integration into schengen as from this autumn.
in writing. – the real question is whether all eu citizens, irrespective of their national origin, are to be treated equally and granted equal access to eu fundamental rights. against the background of the global economic crisis, the eu is experiencing a crisis of democracy and solidarity. we are seeing the renationalisation of europe. in this context, the debate on romania’s and bulgaria’s accession to the schengen area has provoked stark reactions motivated by pseudo-arguments and double standards. this is not about technical aspects, nor about the security of the eu’s external borders, nor yet about migration or efficiency of the judiciary. it is a european political problem of a strategic character. it is about eu cohesion. to speak about a lack of preparation at our eastern borders when seeing the permeability of our southern borders is simply hilarious. to promote national political agendas at the expense of the aspirations of eu citizens of bulgarian and romanian origin is outrageous. indeed, we need better defended borders, a better migration policy, better administrative capacity and honest public servants. but this requires more and not less europe. one right step in this direction is the immediate enlargement of the schengen area to include romania and bulgaria.
the high unemployment rate means that member states' investments in the education of young people are lost when they are forced to emigrate from a member state outside the european union. i would like to ask you, commissioner, given that the drop-out rate has reached 16% and even 40% in portugal, what will the rate of youth unemployment look like in 15 or 20 years' time and what measures are you taking to prevent this from happening?
member of the commission. − mr posselt, i fully share your ambition to do everything to prevent kosovo from becoming an isolated little island in this region, in which we are trying remove visa barriers one by one. we are certainly not going to abandon kosovo. the timing is very much in the hands of kosovo’s government. we are working with the kosovans, and as soon as they inform us that they have done everything we asked them to do, they can come to us and we will send that mission. it is very much in their hands, but we have no time limits, we can come whenever they call and whenever reasonable progress has been made.
member of the commission. − cybercrime is indeed a growing menace. it is going increasingly mobile, and recent threat analysis suggests that organised crime is getting increasingly involved in criminal activities in cyberspace. so the commission is pursuing various activities in the field to improve overall cybersecurity and to prevent and to tackle cybercrime. at the policy level, specific objectives and roadmaps have been set in recent policy documents. we have the european digital agenda and the european internal security strategy. in that strategy cybercrime is clearly identified as one of the priorities for us to work on for the future. last year, we also tabled two legislative proposals: one in march, a directive on child online exploitation, was adopted by the commission and i know it is now being negotiated, and also a proposal for directives on attacks against information cybersystems. that was last september; it is also being negotiated between you and the council, and i know that a lot of progress has been made. this, of course, strives to adopt european legislation in the face of recent threats in cyberspace. we have in particular included provisions to penalise the use of tools such as malicious code that are used to create so-called botnets, which have been used by criminals. international cooperation is also key to fighting cybercrime and that is why we are engaging with international partners on these issues. we have the working group between the eu and the united states, created last november, where we have had a series of different expert meetings. we will report on progress for the next eu-us summit in november this year. we also plan to set up a cybercentre where we could coordinate at european level the efforts that are being made in the different member states. cybercrime is directly influenced by rapid technological advances, quickly emerging in new business models, but also by the ability of law enforcement and wider society to come to terms with such fluid environments as cyberspace. cybercrime is becoming a volume crime. it is for this reason that we need jointly to get our systems in order and share intelligence in order to attack this issue. if there is reason to believe that organised crime groups are behind more and more crimes on the internet, the same investigative measures applied in the detection and prosecution of offline organised crime should be applied, coupled of course with an improved coordination mechanism. finally, ten years ago the council of europe convention – the budapest convention – on cybercrime was adopted. ten years later, not all the member states have signed and ratified that convention. we are pushing, by all means, for ratification by the end of the year, the tenth anniversary, because it would prove an important commitment by all member states to fighting these crimes.
the number, scale, and severity of cyberattacks have increased in recent years. victims are ordinary citizens, businesses or even public institutions, local, national or european. the union must strengthen its strategy to combat cybercrime. i would like to ask you, beyond the legislative framework and the extension of enisa's mandate, what measures does the commission envisage to strengthen its leadership in cybersecurity?
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on culture and education. − when we talk about the eu budget, when we talk about european funds and, above all, when we talk about the future multiannual financial framework, we automatically talk about european added value. i do not think there is a sector or a segment in the eu budget where the european added value is greater with so little money. but for everything we are thinking here, for all european projects to have a connection with the european people, with the european citizen, and for all these projects to have a future, it is necessary that the young people of today believe in the project of the european union, it is necessary that the young people of today feel more and more european, it is necessary that our investments in culture, education and projects and programmes for young people be much wider. that is why i say that for the european union to have a future, we need more money for education, more money for culture, more money for youth. not to mention sport, which is a priority in the europe 2020 agenda.
the current challenges facing the union require a firm and sustained response at european level. the answer to these challenges is strategy 2020, an instrument designed to rebuild and strengthen europe. the report presented today places strategy 2020 at the heart of the development of the next mff, alongside the new context created by the competences and policies provided for by the lisbon treaty. with many member states facing difficult fiscal adjustments, the union budget, which is 95% investment budget, must provide a very high degree of european added value. the report calls for the continuation of two extremely important european policies, agriculture and cohesion, at least at the current level. the allocation of resources under these policies must be based on new criteria, ensuring that they are used correctly and with maximum efficiency and that the convergence and cohesion criteria are respected. transport and energy policies need to be strengthened. the allocation for research and development, both european and national, must ensure progress for all european policies. the seven-year period, the proposed new structure and a high degree of flexibility provide added security in implementation and in adapting to changing priorities. the system of resources of the union budget needs to be reconsidered for stability purposes in order to replace the current national contributions with european resources. the european council has recently adopted ambitious targets for the development of the union. the same council must accept that the 5% budget increase proposed by the report is a minimum condition for reaching these targets. the future mff must be implemented with an economic governance system in place that can ensure the financial stability necessary for the implementation of european policies. all my congratulations to the reporter, mr. salvator garriga.
the rapporteur began his presentation with a very important phrase, we need a combination of the traditional policies of the european union with our new priorities. neither the former nor the latter can function without the other. in this context, i would like to welcome the vision of the common agricultural policy set out in the report. i would like to remind you of some of the important ideas, first of all the maintenance of the cap budget for the next financial programming period. the traditional role of european agriculture, together with the new ambitions we are setting ourselves, fully justify the maintenance of this budget. secondly, the need to maintain a cap system based on two pillars, promoting rural areas under the second pillar, is closely linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. a final point is the need for a future reformed cap that aims at more efficient use of the budget, inter alia, through a fair distribution of payments.
in writing. due to the current crisis and severe constraints on public spending, it is becoming increasingly difficult for member states to achieve growth. i stress that the eu must respond to the demographic challenge. the decline in the share of the labour force, combined with the increase in the share of pensioners, will put pressure on social protection systems. i am of the opinion that the whole of eu funding should lead to an improvement in the general state of the european environment. positive and negative effects on climate, the environment and the use of eu funds should therefore be analysed at all levels. investments at eu level can lead to significantly higher national savings, especially in areas where the eu has undeniably greater added value than national budgets.
in writing. for the first time, the european parliament presents its vision of the european union's priorities for 2014-2020 to the european commission and the council. it is now the european commission's turn to take account of the european parliament's view in its legislative proposal. i would particularly stress the need to maintain, as priorities for the coming period, the development of competitive agriculture and economic and social cohesion. meps also paid due attention to the european effort towards research. the whole vision of the european parliament is anchored in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the decision to accept romania and bulgaria into the schengen area now remains purely political. the report in favour of romania's inclusion in this area, adopted by the european parliament, only confirms that the opinions of the union's experts are correct romania has done its job, secured its borders and met all the required conditions. the opinion of the brussels parliament is advisory and now, as in the past, the decision is in the hands of the politicians in the council. applying double standards, talking about mandatory criteria which, once met, are considered 'merely technical', is not at all in the nature of a democratic and fair union as we know it. i can only hope that the opinions of experts and the european legislator will no longer be ignored by politicians in the member states. hiding behind words, without cutting directly to the chase, can no longer be an option, since acceptance into the schengen area has never been a political issue, but a technical one. the evaluations of the independent experts, those of the parliament, which voted overwhelmingly in favour of romania's integration into schengen, should be decisive in the european council and, consequently, the procedure should be unblocked.
in writing. − today's vote in the european parliament has demonstrated that romania is ready to apply the schengen acquis. according to the rapporteur, mr coelho, all the shortcomings that were found in the past have been successfully remedied by the romanian authorities. romania is able to provide real protection both in terms of air borders and in terms of maritime and land borders. i therefore find it regrettable that there are still hesitations about our readiness to apply the acquis and that certain member states continue to protect their so-called 'national security' by placing unjustified obstacles in the way of a member state that has earned its right to be treated fairly and non-discriminatory. the european parliament has spoken today with one voice about fairness. how long will the council continue to ignore our position?
in writing. - of course, i voted for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. as all romanian and european citizens, i want the judicial reforms in my country to continue, corruption and fraud to be reduced, cases to be tried fairly and quickly, and the guilty to be punished severely. we joined the european union because we wanted to adopt its internal rules and it seems natural to me to respect them and to keep the promises we made when we joined. i thank the union and the member states for helping us make the judicial reforms and anti-corruption measures irreversible, because that is also the wish of the romanian citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the coehlo report on the application of the schengen acquis to romania and bulgaria and i welcome the realism and good faith of all colleagues who also voted in favour of this report. romania and bulgaria have fulfilled the technical conditions for accession to the schengen area and this should be the sole criterion for the adoption of this decision. romania and bulgaria have demonstrated the capacity to adopt the necessary domestic legislation and secure their borders. significant progress has also been made in the fight against corruption - a subject that has often been wrongly and exaggeratedly associated with accession to the schengen area.
in writing. − based on the results of the evaluations and additional visits undertaken by the expert teams, it appears that romania is in a position to fully implement the schengen acquis and all points that needed special attention or re-examination have been resolved (improving risk assessment, updating building security features, improving the visa application submission and processing process, etc.), and it can be considered, in some respects, as an example of best practice. according to the evaluation reports, romania has demonstrated that it is sufficiently prepared to implement satisfactorily both the non-sis and sis provisions of the schengen acquis. the conditions for the adoption by the council of the decision referred to in article 4 (2) of the act of accession allowing for the abolition of internal border controls at air, land and sea borders have been fulfilled. the abolition of internal border controls thus requires a high level of mutual trust between member states as regards the existence of effective external border controls, as the security of the schengen area depends on the strictness and effectiveness with which each member state carries out its external border controls.
in writing. − in 2007, when they joined the eu, romania and bulgaria adopted the schengen acquis. in accordance with article 4 (2) of the act of accession, the verification, by means of evaluation procedures, of the fulfilment by the new member states of the conditions necessary for the application of all parts of the schengen acquis (data protection, sis, air borders, land borders, maritime borders, police cooperation and visas) is conditional on the adoption of a council decision abolishing checks at the internal borders with the member states concerned . according to the expert assessment reports, both romania and bulgaria have demonstrated that they are ready to apply the provisions of the schengen acquis in a satisfactory manner. that is why we are asking the council to approve the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area. the union must apply the same criteria to all member states, including as regards accession to the schengen area. the cooperation and judicial verification mechanism is not part of the criteria for accession to the schengen area and cannot be invoked in the context of the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. as romania and bulgaria meet the technical conditions for accession to the schengen area, on behalf of the romanian and bulgarian citizens, european citizens, we ask the council to approve the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area.
in writing. − i welcome the majority of over 80% with which the ep voted to adopt the report on the fulfilment of the schengen acquis by romania and bulgaria. this vote is a powerful political signal. the ep's view is that romania and bulgaria are ready to join the schengen area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i believe that the rules should not be changed during the game, and the decision on joining the schengen area should take into account the achievements under the schengen agreement and not political assessments. the situation created around the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area denotes the weakening of solidarity within the eu. the fact that some member states are ready to give up one of the freedoms which underpin the construction of europe, freedom of movement, is a wake-up call and at the same time a wrong response to the tensions generated by the economic crisis and its social consequences. the udmr believes that we need a strong europe that can be materialized through more solidarity and a firm rejection of domestic protectionism and populism.
in writing. − in a rapidly changing world, the european union is facing numerous challenges that require a concerted international response. all these substantial changes mean that the european union is actively engaged with other partners to promote effective solutions to problems affecting both european citizens and humanity as a whole. the european union is the world's largest provider of development aid and the united nations' main partner in its efforts at the level of its work. the european union must play a proactive role in building a united nations that contributes effectively to global solutions, peace and security, democracy and an international order based on the rule of law. in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union, the european union is formally committed to effective multilateralism centred on a strong united nations, which is vital for addressing global challenges.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr lambsdorff because i believe that the eu is now creating a new identity on the international scene. i would remind you of the long-standing cooperation between the two international organisations, as well as the eu's involvement in numerous un-initiated projects. i am referring here to the commitment made by european leaders to achieve the millennium development goals. eradicating global poverty is now one of the union's foreign policy priorities. i welcome the initiative to strengthen cooperation in the stabilisation of crisis zones and the development of new nuclear safety standards. the development of events in japan demonstrates the need for this partnership. in the context of the social movements in the mediterranean area, i believe that coordinated eu and un action would guarantee a peaceful democratic transition. in this respect, the intensification of relations with regional organisations is welcome.
in writing. − the seventh framework programme of the european union for research, technological development and demonstration activities is the largest instrument of support for research worldwide and constitutes the main instrument of the european union's research policy. research is the process of converting economic power into knowledge, and innovation is the reverse process of converting knowledge into economic power. the european union and its member states must build the means to provide a common response to the major social, economic, environmental, demographic and ethical challenges facing european states, such as population ageing, citizens' health, food supply, sustainable development and major environmental issues. to enable the more efficient transformation of research results into products and services that generate economic growth and benefits for society at large, a better relationship between academia, research and industry is needed. member states should also step up their communication efforts on the use of new technologies, such as smart research information services, announcing future research challenges and disseminating the results of research activities. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report considers whether the review of the 7th framework programme for research and technological development (fp7) may offer an opportunity to consolidate the golden triangle of knowledge, education and research that is the key to europeans’ destiny. i welcome the level of participation and excellence in project selection but regret, however, that the success rate under this programme generally remains quite low and is a disincentive, particularly for smes. i support, within the framework of the ‘people’ chapter, the marie curie actions, which are of great value to researchers in their career and acknowledge that ‘joint technological initiatives’ (jtis) assist the competitiveness of european industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-canada trade relations because it drew attention to the need to include social and environmental issues in the future eu-canada economic and trade agreement. as far as environmental protection is concerned, i think it is important that the european union should refuse to import oil extracted from oil sands.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on credit rating agencies because i believe that a new european rating agency is needed, which would introduce an alternative working method and more competition in this sector. the financial crisis has shown us that we cannot continue to accept the oligopolistic structure and lack of transparency and accountability of the current credit rating agencies.
in writing. − the external dimension of social policy includes european union activities and initiatives aimed at promoting social and labour standards in third countries. the protection of economic and social rights is an obligation for all states under the un universal declaration of human rights. the attitude of all member states of the european union must therefore clearly reflect the principles of the european social model when social issues and cooperation between member states are at stake. i would like to stress that the european social model offers equal opportunities in education, training and the labour market, as well as equal access to social services, as basic pillars of economic success. i therefore encourage member states to support freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and placement and the abolition of child labour. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which supports dignity, well-being and personal development as values that should be the main objectives of economic development
in writing. − the external dimension of social policy includes eu activities and initiatives aimed at promoting social and labour standards in third countries. although both the lisbon strategy and the eu 2020 strategy place greater emphasis than ever on social policy, the competitiveness and economic factors aspect is still given priority over the social aspects. fundamental labour standards are included in the eight ilo conventions, which focus on freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and placement, and the abolition of child labour. for the eu to negotiate with third countries, they must meet all the requirements mentioned above. this is a mandatory condition for negotiations with third countries. trade policy cannot ignore violations of workers' rights and therefore the development of society can only continue after these drawbacks have been removed. the eu has a good reputation for international social dialogue. in this respect, the eu is considered a sensitive and reliable partner. this must be used to meet the more ambitious objectives set by the eu.
in writing. − according to the report, the eu has a unique combination of economic dynamism with a social model. it creates equal opportunities in education, training and the labour market and equal access to social services. the report stresses the fact that there is a need for implementation of decent work programmes that reflect national needs and priorities regarding employment and social policy, and are based on agreement between employers, workers and governments. this aspect is very important in the actual context. these are several of the reasons why i endorse this report.
in writing. − the core labour standards included in the eight ilo conventions focus on freedom of association and collective bargaining, the elimination of forced and compulsory labour, the elimination of discrimination in employment and placement, and the abolition of child labour. therefore, more attention should be paid to the protection of workers' rights and labour law. significant strengthening of the legal and social position of women is needed to prevent discrimination and to harness the potential contribution of women to economic and social development. i call on the commission and the member states to implement the right to non-discrimination, i.e. the right to work and equal treatment, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age and disability, as a key principle in the fight against poverty. i call on the commission and the member states to work with partner countries to put more emphasis on combating the exploitation of child labour with a view to creating instead decent jobs for adults and allowing children to receive an appropriate education. freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining must be implemented without exception in order to improve and defend decent working conditions for workers.
in writing. - the economic crisis has completely disrupted the labour market in the european union. no major field of activity has been spared its harmful consequences, translated at the citizen level into job insecurity, unemployment, and harsh conditions or chances of re-employment. in this context, vocational education and training is proving to be a new opportunity, a new way for european citizens to get their lives back to normal. i am concerned about the high rate of unemployment among young people and believe that with the right education and continuing training, many young europeans will be able to find a well-paid job that is worth training or retraining. i congratulate the rapporteur on this dossier and conclude, with nadja hirsch, that if this wish is to be realised, vocational education and training must be clearly result-oriented. the goal for 2020 must be one: every young person has a job.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy states that the key drivers for smart growth are the promotion of knowledge, innovation and education, the digital society, but also sustainable and inclusive growth. the key here is education and training, which all member states must assume to the same standards. despite the drastic effects of the economic crisis on the european labour market, it can be assumed that employment in europe will increase over the next ten years, at least gradually. the forecasts suggest that the demand for qualifications will continue to grow. industrial and technological change brings with it a growing demand for medium and high-skilled workers, leaving behind the low-skilled. it is becoming increasingly important that learning be clearly result-oriented. reforms of the vocational training systems of some member states have already been put into practice. with regard to the comparability of education and training systems in the member states, the priority should be to remove barriers, increase transparency and facilitate comparison within and between different systems.
in writing. − measures in the field of education and training are absolutely indispensable for the transformation of the european economy into a knowledge-based economy, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore fully support the recommendations of this report, which underline the importance of investment in education and training for the future competitiveness of the european economy. to achieve our objectives, effective, complementary measures are needed at national and european level. the unemployment rate among young people in the eu has risen alarmingly. the report sends a clear message: education and training are key factors in tackling youth unemployment. clear strategies are needed to integrate them into the labour market, and to link education programmes to labour market demands so that the latter can absorb graduates. a focus on concrete skills is needed to facilitate integration into the labour market. moreover, because of the constant changes in technology, employers have increasingly high expectations of the qualifications of their employees. continuing training therefore plays a key role in continuously adapting vocational qualifications to the requirements of the economy. this can help to avoid exclusion from the labour market at some point in their working lives.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy identifies the key drivers for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (increasing employment, training and poverty eradication). concrete action at union and member state level is needed to implement the strategy in the field of education and training. european workers must be able to adapt to the demands of the economy. policy makers need to enable people to hone and expand their skills. it calls on the member states to monitor the facilitation of the transition from school to working life by developing integrated career guidance and counselling programmes, to create better opportunities for the qualification of trainers and to lay the foundations for a learning partnership to be promoted in particular at regional and local level. member states must take into account in vocational education and training the individual needs of low-skilled people, learners from migrant backgrounds, people belonging to an ethnic minority, women, the unemployed and people with disabilities. calls on the member states to support innovative activities, doctoral and post-doctoral programmes that support competitiveness and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. − the development cooperation instrument (dci) is one of the european union's profoundly altruistic projects, designed to help developing countries without any other conditions or interests. the absence of any utilitarianism on the european side should force the institutions on the continent to focus their funding much better and to focus on poverty eradication and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs). i stress the need for increased transparency for all funds dedicated to this purpose and, more importantly, increased impact assessments of the icd among the populations of those countries. because these funds must be matched by effective social policies, implemented at the level of developing countries. these funds should be the medium- and long-term 'leash' for these peoples to learn how to fish and become self-sufficient. we must not forget that 2010 was the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. the development cooperation instrument must therefore continue this fight in developing countries too, making a significant contribution to ensuring a decent living for as many citizens as possible.
in writing. − i have several reasons why i support this resolution. first of all it underlines that impact assessment can never be a substitute for political debate and the legislator’s decision-making process but should only help the technical preparation of political decisions. this would certainly improve the decision-making process. secondly, the impact assessments have to take a large number of criteria into account in order to provide the legislator with as comprehensive picture. only in this way can the legislator do his job efficiently.
in writing. − impact assessments (ias) are a key instrument for the legislative process, and one of which european legislators should make greater use in future. the benefits of ias are obvious. they show legislators the possible consequences of their policy options and help them in making a decision. ias can thus make a significant contribution to better lawmaking. however, they can in no way be a substitute for political debate and the legislator’s democratically legitimated decision-making process. they merely permit the technical, substantive preparation of a political decision. the ias used by the european institutions should comply with certain principles. first of all they should be completely independent and transparent, cover all categories of legislative proposal and employ a clear methodology. the policy options listed should also include the option of taking no action. the specific consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises should be taken into account where appropriate and they must always be kept up to date with current developments in the legislative process. parliament’s key demand is the creation of an autonomous structure for carrying out impact assessments within parliament, with a view to further enhancing the quality of its lawmaking and creating synergies with the possibility of a common mechanism for all eu institutions.
in writing. − the most obvious obstacles faced by consumers and smes in the single market are the complexity of contractual relationships, abusive terms and conditions in contracts, inadequate and insufficient information, lengthy procedures, language barriers, differences in taxation systems, the credibility of online traders, the demographic structure of the population of each member state, privacy considerations, complaint handling and intellectual property rights. european contract law establishes and regulates transactions in the internal market and seeks to solve problems in the single market caused, inter alia, by divergent contract law legislation. ensuring a coherent contract law regime is thus essential to realise the full potential of the internal market and to support the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. choosing the right path in contract law can make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market and unlocking its full potential for businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and for consumers. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i want to support the adoption of a clearly defined measurement system that goes beyond gdp in order to complement it in the context of decision-making and its evaluation. gdp is an indicator of market economic activity, which has become a standard reference for policymakers. all international institutions increasingly recognise the need to improve the data and indicators that complement gdp in assessing the overall development of society. this report highlights the need to measure the quality of life in societies. achieving and maintaining a quality of life involves factors such as health, education, culture, employment, housing and environmental conditions. i am in favour of establishing a sound legal framework for european economic and environmental accounts and encourage the need for reliable and harmonised statistics.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that indicators must be found that are complementary to gdp and that help us measure factors such as climate change, biodiversity or resource efficiency. as joseph stiglitz rightly points out, gdp is not a sufficient instrument to reflect the well-being of citizens, but merely measures economic activity in the market. i hope that the european executive will come up with concrete proposals for additional, more comprehensive and more sustainable indicators to address the current shortcomings.
in writing. − gdp is the most eloquent measure of macroeconomic activity and is also an indirect indicator of the development and progress of society. however, it cannot provide information on all topics that are the subject of policy debates, such as the environment or social inclusion. this indicator underpins many of the european union's policy decisions and instruments, and i believe that we need to step up our efforts to make indicators available that meet the needs of all citizens, namely to measure progress towards economic, social and environmental objectives in a sustainable way. in conclusion, future european policies must be based on complete, up-to-date data covering all the essentials.
in writing. − the commission communication 'beyond gdp - measuring progress in a changing world' focuses on developing more comprehensive indicators to complement gdp and provide a more reliable knowledge base. gdp has come to take on the role of a comprehensive indicator of society's overall development and progress, but it does not provide a reliable basis for all the issues that are the subject of policy debate. in particular, gdp does not measure either environmental sustainability or social inclusion. i voted for this report because it is important to develop a tool that can complement gdp, given that this needs to be done in a way that has practical use, based on clearly defined indicators and high-quality data. this report asks the commission to present a sequential strategy on the 'beyond gdp' approach, explaining how the new approach can be applied pragmatically in everyday policy work.
in writing. − over time, especially since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the eu's competences have increased, but the budget has increased only marginally. we have an ambition for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe. if we are to achieve this ambitious goal, i believe the eu's financial means must be equally ambitious. that is why i think that we need to increase the budget for the next mff by at least 5%. the eu also needs a thorough discussion on own resources involving both representatives of the european institutions and national parliaments, so that a consensus can be created around an own resources system that guarantees the effective implementation of european policies. i support the idea in this report that resources need to be channelled to those measures that aim to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. they also fully agree with the need to ensure coherence and complementarity between the various instruments currently in place to support research, development and innovation. finally, a credible budget must be coherent and guarantee the efficiency of expenditure by avoiding any duplication in the use of funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a new multiannual financial framework as it introduces the possibility of introducing a financial transaction tax at european level. it would tax speculative financial transactions to discourage such practices and would allow the creation of new revenue for the member states of the european union.
in writing. - this report is perhaps one of the most important of this legislature. i had the opportunity to be a rapporteur on behalf of the cult committee and i think the consensus that was reached, far from being perfect, is probably the best we could get at this economic juncture. i voted with confidence and i hope that this is a clear message to the council and that it takes account of the ep's position.
in writing. − this european parliament resolution on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe is important both for achieving the eu 2020 objectives (on restoring and protecting long-term growth levels) and for preventing a repeat of the current economic crisis. this report argues that the europe 2020 strategy should define the policies of the new mff, as the objectives (eu 2020) can only be achieved through an optimal use of existing resources (set by those policies). therefore, identifying key priorities for the future mff, such as knowledge for growth, cohesion for growth and employment, natural resource management and sustainable development, citizenship and a global europe, helps to allocate and make the most of existing resources. the development of a new mff as structured in this report contributes to the establishment of a long-term action plan that will deliver concrete results and has the potential to deliver economic growth for the eu.
in writing. − the garriga report is a test of the effectiveness of the functioning of community policies for the coming programming period. the rapporteur is putting us in a very difficult position. the commission's task is to respond to the diversity of national interests and at the same time to strengthen the european added value reflected in the multiannual financial framework. i believe that the objectives of cohesion policy need to be better understood by european citizens. a strong europe, a europe that can compete internationally, is achieved by keeping cohesion policy at the heart of eu policies aimed at the balanced development of all regions. i would like to insist that cohesion policy retains a significant weight in the future budgetary perspective. its priority must remain the reduction of economic and social disparities within the eu. in order to achieve the proposed results, it is necessary to maintain the main criteria for allocating funds according to the level of development and convergence of the eu regions. i support this report because i consider it a viable solution to supplement the multiannual financial framework after 2013, which implies some changes to the current structure. in addition to funding for research and development, energy and transport, it is also necessary to consider investments in cohesion and agriculture.
in writing. - i voted against amendment no 39 to this report and implicitly in favour of amendment no 62. i believe that an intermediate category of regions is needed for the next programming period, the only indispensable condition being that the allocation of funds to these regions does not affect the allocations for the convergence and competitiveness objectives.
in writing. − the decline in the share of the labour force, combined with the increase in the share of pensioners, will put additional pressure on its social protection systems and on its economic competitiveness, generating increasingly serious problems of unequal distribution of poverty between men and women, given the high number of older women and the current disparities in social protection. the importance of gender mainstreaming in budgets as a good governance tool to improve efficiency and equity, proper monitoring of how budget allocations affect the economic and social opportunities of women and men, and flexibility to allow for the restructuring of budget appropriations that adversely affect the achievement of gender equality should be underlined. it is necessary to include in the european investment plan for employment, the environment and innovation the measures necessary to develop the technical and scientific skills of young women, to improve their skills and employability, in particular in the growing strategic sectors where they are under-represented. the esf should provide adequate resources for measures aimed at improving access to the labour market, combating unemployment and social exclusion. i also ask the european commission to propose active measures to support female employment in rural areas through the eafrd.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the new fundamental law of hungary – one would say a far too controversial text for a constitution – has been rushed through the hungarian parliament after only one month of public consultations. hungarian civil society and the venice commission have expressed serious concerns regarding the duration and transparency of the process. sometimes those questioning this text have been accused of doing so for purely political reasons. one expected the new hungarian constitution – 20 years after the fall of the communist regime and at a time when hungary holds the presidency of the european union – to entirely reflect the most cherished values in the eu. are these only political values? i admit that as a liberal i am worried about government eroding civil liberties and democratic control. i am worried about legislation turning a blind eye to diversity, and i am convinced that not all hungarian citizens recognise themselves in the conservative image portrayed by the constitution. how could i remain indifferent about a text on pluralism and the concentration of power in regulatory authorities such as those set out in the still fresh hungarian media law? we should all worry about democracy when a ruling party passes laws that cement its power well beyond the end of its term and limits the relevance of future elections, and about political leaders going as far as writing or amending fundamental laws that fit only their political credo or economic policies. and yes, i am worried about the spill-over of these hungarian patterns. my own country’s leaders have been inspired by these actions, and some recent amendments to our romanian constitution seem to be copied and pasted. they will not be approved, but the attempt is there. european institutions must not be shy at such times. we need to strive to make all european citizens feel not worried but reassured that our values are at the core of our legislation and are there to stay.
i would like to draw your attention in particular to the provisions of the revised constitution relating to the collective rights of the hungarian ethnic minority living abroad and to the explicit assertion, this time, of the principle of extraterritoriality, both of which are in explicit contravention of osce standards, as well as the repeated assessments of the venice commission in similar cases. i refer to article d, to satisfy my colleague weber. this is unacceptable and i remind you that the effects are already being felt. last week, mr tőkés, vice-president of the european parliament, hosted the official inauguration of a representation of the szeklerland, which does not exist in romania, in the hungarian house of regions. i am convinced that the report from the venice commission, commissioner, will confirm the existence of these violations, and i ask you then: what will the european commission want and what will it be able to do in this respect? finally, i would like to ask you, especially the german and french members of parliament in strasbourg, who are the symbol of the historic reconciliation between germany and france, the symbol on which our european union is built: can you accept that the demons of nationalism are set free in europe without destroying our european union project? (the president agreed to answer a question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
i would like to remind you, mr. deputy, that i was referring exclusively to standards, to unanimously recognized european principles and not to legal or constitutional provisions in romania. but i would also like to answer that no legal act in romania provides for the principle of extraterritoriality and collective rights. i referred to this when i mentioned the conflict with the european commission's assessments. when a breach of these values is found in any member state of the union, the union is called upon to react firmly, whatever the name of that state. that's my answer.
in today's debate, it seems that the venice commission has become a sort of european super-arbitration court. the same venice commission has made serious criticisms, legitimate criticisms, of the slovak language law, which is still in force, and i have not heard any of my slovak colleagues refer to this slovak language law. my colleague boştinaru is no longer here. he can't answer, but i would like to answer józsef szájer that as a romanian citizen, i only know that yes, romanians living outside romania can vote and have passports, as does the slovak constitution, and many european constitutions also stipulate the rights of those who cross the border. i don't see anything wrong with that. i would wonder why hungary has to record this, because hungarians living across the border are still discriminated against in those countries from which they vehemently attack the hungarian constitution.
in writing. the hungarian constitution was adopted on 18 april, through a process that has pushed democratic boundaries, and will come into force early next year. although we do not have the prerogatives to dictate to a member state the content of a fundamental law, we cannot treat this undemocratic slip with indifference. this is a case that should alert all member states and all governments, regardless of their political orientation. and worse, the hungarian government is using its eu presidency not to build something for a united europe, but to support the resurgence of a nationalism that we thought we had forgotten. as regards states such as romania and slovakia, the content of the constitution can create a favourable framework for dangerous situations, through collective rights for ethnic hungarians and through the principle of extra-territoriality. moreover, the hungarian government has expressed its support for the establishment of the szekler land representation in brussels, a major offense to the romanians and the territorial integrity of romania.
the european arrest warrant is an effective tool for combating and controlling cross-border crime at community level. it has proved effective in speeding up the transfer of persons suspected of committing serious crimes, including terrorism and organised crime, between union countries. but too often this tool has been used for petty crime. it's about equal treatment of deeply unequal cases. the warrant was issued when its use was neither necessary nor proportionate. this has not only led to unfair situations for the accused but also to an unjustified burden on the resources of the executing state. the disproportionate use of this instrument, which is essential for the fight against cross-border crime, leads to an erosion of trust and will lead some states to conduct proportionality checks under their own rules when deciding to execute a european arrest warrant. the effect will be inconsistent and uneven application and consequently distrust of the concept of mutual recognition. the right to legal aid must be ensured in both the issuing and the executing states in order for the right of defence to be properly exercised. that is why we wanted to put these questions to the commission and the council. we need to be sure that the standards of criminal justice and prison conditions in the european union are not a source of distrust among the judicial systems of the member states. in conclusion, i would also like to thank commissioner reding for all the actions she has taken to strengthen procedural rights in criminal proceedings.
the new eu-russia partnership agreement must be specific and legally binding in all areas of cooperation. this is a reasonable requirement, we cannot allow a contract to consist of general phrases. the european union and russia are interdependent. the european market is as important to russia as russian gas is to us, but the plans for modernising the russian economy depend directly on our technologies and expertise. our cooperation is therefore directly linked to improvements in the areas of human rights and the rule of law. the european union is russia's largest trading partner and a key investor, and legally binding investment clauses should therefore be included in the new agreement. it is important to insist on the removal of unilaterally and unjustifiably imposed barriers to trade. this applies both to the customs union of russia kazakhstan belarus and to the existing eu vegetable embargo. russia cannot continue to use energy policy to pursue its geopolitical interests by discriminating against individual member states, for example in terms of gas tariffs. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission should also continue to work towards a visa-free regime with russia, while also working towards a visa-free regime with the other eastern partnership countries. the summit should also recall that the six-point agreement on georgia has still not been implemented. in view of the upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections, restrictions on opposition representatives registering for elections and speaking in the mass media should be lifted. we have already demonstrated our willingness to be present at all stages of the electoral process, but russia must demonstrate its willingness to host long-term observers and to implement fair elections in practice. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the critical remarks are in no way directed against russia or its people, but on the contrary, they are aimed at the current government in order to improve the situation in russia and improve our cooperation.
climate change, drug trafficking, non-proliferation and energy security are common challenges that require global solutions. that is why we need to build a strong partnership with russia based on mutual trust. i would like to welcome the resumption of negotiations for a new ambitious partnership agreement that seeks to overcome past tensions. i believe that russia should be supported by the european union in its efforts to join the wto, and this will improve trade and economic relations between the two partners and stimulate investment. at the same time, the high representative must advocate at tomorrow's summit for russia's ratification of the energy charter treaty, because there can be no real energy cooperation between the european union and russia unless the principles of transparency, reciprocity, competitiveness and non-discrimination are respected.
the eu-russia summit takes place against the backdrop of regional developments that are influencing this partnership. reform of the european neighbourhood policy can lead to a solution to the transnistrian conflict. russia has thus expressed its interest in the creation of a joint political committee, but the structure and the deadline for the establishment of this body are to be discussed. the food crisis currently affecting europe has caused the cessation of trade with russia. a new negotiation on the current sanitary rules could improve this situation. russia's accession to the wto will have a long-term impact on economic relations with the eu. it is therefore necessary to review all agreements in this field. the energy issue is another topic of interest following the creation of the agri project. it would provide an alternative source to the one proposed by the nabucco project.
member of the commission. − madam president, today’s exchange of views was indeed very useful for adding a final touch to our summit preparations and you can rest assured that i will convey the key messages to the high representative and vice-president ashton who will debrief the presidents and commissioner karel de gucht. i have heard many of you calling for continuing engagement with russia, calling for the relationship and coordination with the russian federation to be further developed, but i also heard calls for more democracy and less corruption. i also heard a call for no harassment, which was reported in nizhniy novgorod, although i respect the role of the russian federation in ensuring security for the summit. we have seen that we have convergent views on many subjects. we agree on the key importance of our relations with russia both bilaterally and in multilateral contexts, whether regional or global. we agree that it is a multifaceted relationship in which economic, social and environmental issues, human rights and rule of law, security aspects and political cooperation are all of paramount importance. we should not expect a resolution of all pending problems at this summit – and yes, we will raise the issue of vegetables. but we should aim to make significant progress in a number of areas. let me comment on some of these areas. first: elections. the russian authorities are well aware that the european union will be following the 2011 and 2012 electoral processes very closely. should there be irregularities in the upcoming elections these issues would have to be addressed. right now, we are calling on russia to respect obligations it has undertaken in the context of the council of europe, the united nations and the osce regarding free and fair elections, and to cooperate well with odihr to ensure appropriate monitoring. we will place a special emphasis on the issue of the registration of new parties and access to the electoral process. second: i took a note of parliament’s concerns with regard to the human rights situation in russia; we share most of them and these issues will be raised with the russian president at the summit. the main forum for addressing human rights and rule-of-law issues is the european union-russia human rights consultations. this is an important instrument and its potential should be fully used. unfortunately this not yet the case and the european union will therefore stress the need to have an honest and useful dialogue for which a review of the consultations’ modalities is necessary. third: the partnership for modernisation. i fully agree with the honourable members that the partnership for modernisation should be broadly based. the coordinators will present in nizhniy novgorod the second programme report on the implementation of the partnership and, as you will see, the rule of law is at the very core of this initiative and we have concrete projects in this area. point four: russia is the neighbour of our neighbours, and i think nizhniy novgorod would be an excellent opportunity to refer to the recently adopted enp review document and, with reference to this document, to make sure that we are transparent in our policy vis-à-vis the neighbours we share with russia. this is an opportunity – based inter alia on that transparency – to make our point that caring about the wellbeing of the neighbours we share is a win-win process. i think it will also be a good opportunity, based on some new ideas in that enp review, to talk about a strengthened cooperation to address the protracted conflicts in our neighbourhood. point five: the question of energy cooperation will be addressed at the summit. we need transparent, fair and competitive energy relations and we will raise our concerns with the russian president. we will emphasise the need for further reforms, as i stressed in my opening remarks, in the russian electricity and gas sector with a view to establishing a level playing field. madam president, honourable members, the european union and russia are partners. partners should talk to each other frequently, they should try to achieve consensus where possible, but should not hesitate to openly address more problematic aspects. we have talked about some of these problematic aspects today. they should be addressed at the summit and wherever possible we should look for solutions or at least improvement. i have already mentioned the enp review. i strongly believe that one of the added values of that reviewed neighbourhood policy is that the universally applicable values and principles reflected there are not only applicable to small and medium-sized neighbouring countries.
in writing. i am pleased to be among the signatories of this resolution, which reaffirms the importance of respect for democracy and human rights in relations between the european union and russia. starting with the russia-eu human rights dialogue and continuing with the meetings at the highest level, i believe that there is a need for a systematic and frank approach to cases where fair trial standards are not respected or where human rights defenders or journalists are persecuted and prevented from carrying out their work. moreover, clear benchmarks for russia's respect for democratic norms should be introduced to allow it to deepen its relations with the eu. finally, we must not forget the support that must be given to the development of civil society as a guarantor of a democracy that is not just procedural but genuinely inclusive.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr bartolozzi on this initiative. relations between the eu and mongolia need to be reviewed in the light of the ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreement. this document will strengthen relations between the two sides and encourage economic reforms. mongolia has significant energy and trade potential. until now, the relationship with the eu has been based solely on the provisions of the 1993 trade agreement. for this reason, the trade was quite low. there are cultural difficulties in organising student exchange. the extension of erasmus-type programmes to this region would also improve this area of cooperation. i believe that the establishment of an eu delegation is necessary for better coordination of all these activities. in this way, direct contact with the authorities will ensure the effective implementation of the partnership agreement.
professional yearbooks are one of the most widely used forms of information on supply in a field of activity. their prestige gives them credibility among european consumers. for this reason, fraudulent business directories are detrimental to the population that uses them. this practice can be stopped by correct implementation of the misleading advertising directive. unfortunately, not all member states have transposed this text into their legislation. thus, the victims cannot obtain compensation for the damage suffered. the revision of the directive would provide the necessary tools to combat this phenomenon. furthermore, supplementing community legislation with specific provisions would limit the occurrence of fraudulent business directories. i believe that victims of these practices should be able to go directly to court.
in writing. the european commission should also involve neighbouring states in the stress tests, to which the same testing criteria, established at eu level, should be applied, given the cross-border nature of the possible effects of nuclear energy. romania is already in the process of conducting stress tests. we are interested in their evaluation taking into account the specificity of the nuclear technology used in romania, compared to the nuclear technologies used in the eu. for this reason, i believe that the following aspects should be taken into account in the conduct and evaluation of stress tests: - the application of the tests should take account of the nuclear technology of the plant, to which its particularities may be added, without imposing 'test templates'; - stress tests should be evaluated on technical grounds rather than on political grounds or on grounds of speculation; - the national regulatory authority and representatives of neighbouring states should be included in the independent peer review team in order to exchange experience in the field of contingency plans.
in writing. − i voted for the joint resolution on the eu-russia summit because i believe that relations with russia, especially in terms of energy security, need to be strengthened. the new partnership and cooperation agreement must be comprehensive, legally binding and include provisions on respect for human rights and the rule of law. i believe that the partnership for modernisation is a suitable instrument to encourage reforms on the russian side. they also believe that russia's accession to the wto will boost investment and improve trade relations with the eu. it is in our interest to support russia in its efforts to join the wto. on the other hand, russia must be willing to abandon protectionist measures such as the customs union with kazakhstan and belarus.
the author. - as those who spoke before me did, i too see that since february 2010, when we discussed the situation in madagascar, we have not had positive developments, we could say that the transition has not been to democracy, but to a crisis even deeper than a year and several months ago. it is true that the southern african development community meeting in gaborone was presented as a last-chance meeting. unfortunately, it was a failure, as we all know. i think we can keep hoping that at the end of this week, at the saturday meeting, something positive will happen. it is true, on the other hand, that the economic and social situation in madagascar is very serious, the majority of the malagasy population living on less than a dollar a day. how can we get out of this situation? through a neutral, inclusive and consensual transition process. we're not here to support one side or the other, but to support the idea of this type of trial.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, two years have past since power was taken by force in madagascar by a military regime that has not fulfilled at all the commitments made to ensure a transition to democracy, political pluralism and freedom of expression. the fact that the african union has suspended the country’s membership, declaring the political regime illegal, along with the suspension of assistance by the imf and the world bank, have led to the government’s international isolation and deepened the problems of a population deprived of foreign aid. therefore, our proposal for a resolution outlines two sets of measures: an appeal to the eu and also to the security council to extend to all the member countries the visa ban adopted by the african union and also to increase humanitarian aid to the civilians in madagascar. politically, the eu should insist more strongly that political parties in madagascar rise above their obvious conflicts and agree on the roadmap proposed by the south african development community to overcome the crisis. in this respect, a decision by the former president marc ravalomanana to return to his country is essential, taking into consideration the fact that the current leaders are forcing him to choose between exile and forced labour for life.
the coup d'état of march 2009 was followed by acts of violence, human rights violations, including arbitrary arrests of opposition leaders and internal insecurity. they must be investigated and the perpetrators punished, the regime boycotts international and regional efforts to restore peace and hold free elections for a democratic and legitimate government. but we must not give up on finding solutions. also, as a matter of urgency, political militias must be disbanded and the abuses of the government's security forces against the population must be stopped. it is essential that free and democratic elections be held as soon as possible in order to establish a legitimate constitutional order and to allow the reconstruction of the country to proceed. i therefore call on the commission and the council to continue, intensify and accelerate their efforts to provide solutions and an environment for the holding of free elections and the protection of human rights in madagascar.
the current political crisis in madagascar is a risk to democracy and stability in the region. the removal of the democratically elected president from power has resulted in a climate of violence and insecurity. i remind you that international donors have withdrawn their financial support to the island's population. thus, madagascar now faces a poverty rate of 80 percent. for the same reasons, the usa no longer offers duty exemptions to textile imports from that country. in this way, one of the main sources of national income is eliminated. i welcome the efforts of the southern african development community to end this crisis and restore democracy to the country. i believe that the involvement of regional organisations in resolving tensions is essential to reach a political compromise.
the political crisis in madagascar has led to the isolation of the country on the international stage. both the european union, in application of the provisions of the cotonou treaty, and the imf and world bank have suspended financial assistance to madagascar. i support the measures taken by the european union in the context of the abusive and, by implication, unconstitutional seizure of power by rajoelina, which is endangering the transition to a democratic regime for an indefinite period. on the other hand, the decision to impose sanctions is always a delicate one, because of the inevitable humanitarian, economic and social consequences it entails. we must think of the malagasy people, who need our support, support which must not be expressed only by a call for free, pluralist elections and the restoration of democratic order, but in practice through real humanitarian aid.
the author. - i have a question for mrs. vergiat and i'm sorry i couldn't ask it to mrs. gomes. does ms. vergiat believe that by re-introducing these allegations against romania, as ms. gomes did against poland, she is helping the al-nashiri case? how does reviewing these allegations help us to discover ways to prevent capital punishment? or is our resolution not about the death penalty, but about these allegations?
the proposal i would like to make is to concentrate on the specific case of al-nashiri. there is a possibility of the death penalty being imposed in the proceedings before a military commission in the case of abd al-rahim al-nashiri. i want to remind you, by the way, and mr tanok has mentioned this, that al-nashiri has been charged with very serious crimes, involvement in the attack on an american aircraft carrier, against the mv limburg oil tanker. our principled opposition to the death penalty must lead us to ask the american authorities not to impose the death penalty. on the other hand, i would like to say that for the epp group a strong transatlantic relationship has been and is a priority, insofar as it is based on the conviction of a common set of values and respect for human rights. we are all united here in our categorical rejection of terrorist acts and in our solidarity with the victims of these attacks. i regret that a democracy like the united states is being combined with dictatorships that mrs vergiat explicitly or implicitly defends. (the president agreed to accept a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
author. - i would like to say that i very much regret that in all this discussion you never give credence to the position of the romanian authorities. i remind you that romania is a member of the european union and i think we can have a minimum of trust in our partners. i would also like to remind you that the romanian authorities have always made available all the information needed in these international investigations. the airports of otopeni, bucharest, constanta, the base of the torrejon satellite center have been opened to all investigators. there has always been an atmosphere of collaboration and there is no credible confirmation of these facts. i really don't understand why, in this game of repetition that is always mentioned, you never give credit to the authorities of a partner state. romania, mrs. gomes, is in the union, not to be confused with the countries we talk about here every thursday. (the president agreed to accept a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the author. - i thought it was a question, she didn't come. what i would like to say is that it still seems illegitimate to put on the same level, on an equal footing, democracies such as the american one, or the member countries of the union and, respectively, countries, societies in which the exercise of power is authoritarian, totalitarian, full of abuses against the citizens. that's what i meant. if mrs. vergiat has been offended by this i am very sorry, i regret this incident.
author. − mr president, i do not know if we are about to vote on the resolution, but we will eventually do so after the end of this debate. i think this issue is a good example of what it means to be consistent with our own principles and values, because this parliament has spoken out on several occasions against the death penalty, wherever it may occur. it has also spoken on what due process of law means; these two fundamental human rights issues are at stake in the case of al-nashiri. due process of law excludes military commissions. we have already criticised this system as it fails, in every respect, to meet international standards on fair trails. moreover, in this case, the saudi arabian national faces the death penalty imposed by a military commission, although in 2009 the un special rapporteur on extrajudicial executions specifically asked the us not to conduct capital prosecutions before military commissions. the liberal group in this parliament remains fully committed to combating terrorism, but without any concessions with regard to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
i'd like to ask mr. murphy if he can also very quickly evoke the way political prisoners are tortured in cuba.
mr president, i agree with my colleagues who are saying that, when we make such a serious accusation against a country, we have to be sure that we have all the necessary information. i do not think it is about double standards: it is about honesty and being professionally informed. regarding our subject, the usa is responsible for detainees’ rights and has the moral obligation to abolish capital punishment. as transatlantic relations are primarily based on a set of common values, i hope that the american authorities will be more receptive to the eu’s commitment to dropping the death penalty worldwide. în altă ordine de idei, aş vrea să-i răspund colegului meu, domnul preda. faptul că avem această poziţie legată cu abolirea pedepsei cu moartea nu înseamnă că subevaluăm parteneriatul strategic pe care îl avem cu statele unite ale americii pe care ni-l dorim atât pentru uniunea europeană, cât şi pentru ţările noastre. nu numai dumneavoastră, grupul popular, ci şi pentru grupul socialist relaţiile cu statele unite reprezintă o prioritate şi vor reprezenta şi de acum înainte.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is working closely with the united states of america in the fight against terrorism. we are not going to be able to do that, and we are not going to be able to do that. in june last year, we - the eu and the us - issued a joint statement on counter-terrorism, which stated that the fight against terrorism must be consistent with fundamental values and the rule of law. the agreement provides that all trials of terrorism suspects are to be conducted within a legal framework that ensures respect for relevant procedural rights and guarantees a fair, as far as possible public and efficient trial. the european union has been calling for the closure of the guantanamo bay detention camp for several years. we consider that prolonged detention without trial is incompatible with international law. the eu therefore welcomed president obama's announcement and order to close the prison camp within a year, over two years ago. we have agreed with the united states a common framework which forms the basis for the release and reception of some former prisoners in the eu member states. we remain prepared to cooperate closely with the united states on further measures to close the prison camp. despite the presidential decree of march this year officially authorising the prolonged detention of some prisoners at guantánamo, the union hopes - no, expects - that the united states government will continue to raise this issue in the us congress and seek the closure of this prison as soon as possible. the european union and our member states are firmly opposed to the death penalty under any circumstances. we have taken this position in our relations with all the countries of the world. in line with the eu guidelines on the death penalty, we strongly urge the united states to abolish the death penalty at both national and state level and to grant pardons in individual cases. we are therefore concerned about any prisoner who may face the death penalty. we believe that the us authorities have not yet decided whether muhammed al nashiri and the five accomplices in the terrorist attacks of 10 years ago can be sentenced to death by the court. i can assure you that the european union is closely monitoring the proceedings and will raise its concerns with the authorities in an appropriate and regular manner with regard to the death penalty and the fairness of the proceedings.
in writing. saudi national abd al rahim al-nashiri was detained by the united states in 2002 and transferred to guantanamo in 2006 on charges of war crimes and terrorism. the u.s. attorney general has requested the death penalty, and by june 30, 2011, the u.s. authorities will decide whether to uphold the death penalty before a military commission, which is expected to make a decision. terrorism must be condemned and those responsible punished without exception. but all defendants must have the right to a fair trial, and the death penalty has no place in a country that upholds human dignity, the essence of human rights. i join those who call on the commission and the council to press the american authorities to abandon the death penalty and to ensure that the saudi citizen is given a fair trial.
on behalf of the epp group. through the restrictive measures taken against yulia tymoshenko, the current government continues the series of actions directed against members of the former government with the aim of intimidating and weakening the opposition. we are deeply concerned about the use of the judiciary for political purposes through selective actions that target members of the opposition exclusively. they endanger the consolidation of the rule of law and democracy in ukraine. we call on the authorities in kiev to ensure the impartial, independent and transparent functioning of the judiciary through a fair trial of the accused. we also ask them to respect the rules of a democratic state and to ensure respect for human rights, obligations assumed in the eastern partnership. we stress that respect for these principles is essential for the advancement of eu-ukraine cooperation, including with a view to the conclusion of the association agreement.
the motion for a resolution on the case of the members of the former ukrainian government is necessary to comply with the basic principles of the european union, starting with respect for human rights. it's not the justice system in ukraine that worries me the most, but the possible interference of politics in the work of the judiciary. the european union, as a community of law and values, must come to the aid of the members of the former ukrainian government in order to respect the principle of the presumption of innocence and the european convention on human rights. i would like to draw attention to the need to continue and intensify reforms in ukraine, to align legislation with community provisions and obligations as essential elements in the perspective of closer relations with the european union. the success of ukraine's reform process will depend on the promotion and respect of democratic principles, the rule of law and transparency. regarding the charges against yulia tymoshenko and former members of the government, you can't go from abuse of power to abuse of power. democracy must go forward in ukraine and we can support this phenomenon.
mr president, after an era of openness, tolerance and enthusiasm for europe, we have seen in recent years a deterioration of our unity and a division among europeans, even in this house, on issues such as freedom of movement, immigration, national interest and, above all, money. unfortunately, this global economic crisis highlights the worst of our nationalist and populist views. the chaos of daily declarations on greece by national politicians and stakeholders is only adding to the confusion and creating more speculation on the markets. the risk of contamination of every single member state is a real one. while greece shares its burden of responsibility in its crisis, our european leaders share theirs as well. if a year ago the eu had shown a unified and total commitment to helping greece, we would not now be jumping from one rescue plan to another. we do not need more technical solutions. what we need is cohesion, determination and unity, because what we are playing is a psychological war and what the market is testing is europe’s unity, not the greek austerity plan. it is crucial to send an unequivocal message of support and encouragement that europe is standing behind greece. in addition, we should lower the interest rate and show more flexibility in accessing eu funds. besides, greece must also be ready to take its fate in its hands. while reforms and austerity measures are necessary, we should also remember that this is not enough in the long term to recover. we must go back to the basics, encourage investment and promote growth. i hope that tomorrow no european leader will default on solidarity, because greece is just a page in the book which is europe; so if we stand by greece, we stand by europe.
the council will conclude the hungarian presidency. the efforts of this presidency to complete important files, some of them highly controversial, are to be applauded. it is a very important meeting because it will be seen whether the european semester will be implemented. the recommendations must be implemented by the member states in order not to jeopardise stability. this is the moment when member states must demonstrate their responsible commitment to the new mechanism. stability or convergence programmes and national reform programmes are necessary but not sufficient. there needs to be a consensus on what economic governance means. parliament has worked hard to reach a compromise, which i hope will be voted on tomorrow. it is the council's turn to adopt this package of major importance for the union. there has been a lot of talk lately about the schengen area. it is clear that a renewal of the evaluation mechanism is necessary. unilaterally reintroducing borders is not a solution. support measures and frontex involvement are needed if a member state is unable to fulfil its responsibilities at the external borders. if the situation is not resolved, the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, may decide to reintroduce border controls for a limited period of time. i think that unilaterally introducing borders, as is being done at the moment, is not a solution. the adoption of the presidency report on the means of promoting the inclusion of roma in the european union, as well as the conclusions on the launch of the danube region strategy, can be important steps in implementing these important policies for the union.
in writing. in the run-up to the european council on 23-24 june, i would like to address the issue of croatia's accession. first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that what i supported in an amendment tabled with my colleague bernd posselt to the resolution on croatia's 2010 progress report is about to become a reality. i therefore welcome the consensus reached within the general affairs council on the conclusion of the negotiations with croatia by the end of this month and hope that the european council will formalise this. after six years of negotiations, the time has come for croatia's efforts to meet the accession criteria to be recognised and i hope that in 2013 we will be able to welcome croatia as the 28th member state. the european council's decision will send a very strong signal to the western balkans as a whole, encouraging governments in the region to continue reforms. it is a long and costly process, but in the end, the efforts to integrate are rewarded. at the same time, i welcome the positive attitude of the croatian authorities, who regard the monitoring mechanism until the time of effective accession as an additional motivation, but its extension after this date should not be an option.
in writing. first of all, i join my colleagues in supporting solidarity with greece. the european union must be firm and united in this decision. secondly, the schengen area is one of the eu's greatest achievements, whose principles must be respected and defended. in this context, i consider it unacceptable to re-establish border controls within the schengen area, or to introduce additional criteria for member states wishing to join the schengen area and fulfilling the specific technical criteria. thirdly, i welcome the adoption by the european council of the eu strategy for the danube region. cooperation in the danube region has a long history: one of the first european institutions, the european danube commission, was established in 1856, with its original seat in galati, romania, and with the aim of ensuring free navigation on the danube. it calls on the member states concerned to give priority to the implementation of this strategy, thus ensuring economic and social development for the more than 120 million citizens living in this macro-region. finally, i call on the european council and the member states to remove the existing barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. removing these barriers means respecting the eu's fundamental principles, such as the free movement of people and solidarity.
we need a strong agricultural sector, backed by a common agricultural policy, with an adequate budget and able to ensure food security in europe. i believe that european farmers have a right to a decent income, and that, together with food security, is a basis for the legitimacy of the cap. however, more equity is needed in the distribution of direct payments, both between member states and between farmers. i hope that the forthcoming legislative proposal will provide a solution to close the unfair gaps. i also want to thank the commission for its intention to introduce a simplified financing scheme for small farms. equally important are the programmes for young farmers. they must be supported to start farming activities, both to contribute to rural development and to ensure the generational change that is absolutely necessary for the medium- and long-term future of european agriculture.
one of the challenges of the future is food security. the cap must be a response to this challenge. the new policy must continue the positive aspects of the current policy and correct the mistakes. the deß report i think realizes these things. two pillars are proposed: direct payments and rural development. the aim is to eliminate historical criteria, to use objective criteria. the commission is proposing to increase the amount of the direct payment to be paid to farmers in the member states by a further ecu 1 million. it emphasizes, but also simplifies, the ecological component. a strong rural development component is maintained, and it is called for to include in the budget after 2014 funding at least equal to the level of 2013. it is gratifying that the first report of parliament drawn up after the commission's communication has very much in common with the commission's.
in writing. we are all aware of the potential and crucial role of the common agricultural policy in achieving the environmental and climate objectives, in providing public goods and, equally, in achieving the food security objectives of the eu. but it is very important that when we talk about agriculture and the future of the cap, the keywords are simplification and innovation. we need to focus on those policy measures that do not impose new administrative burdens because we do not want to make life more difficult for our farmers. the common agricultural policy needs to become fairer and simpler and i think we need to find the right balance between the policy objectives we propose and the administrative burden. we need to ensure the welfare of farmers and strengthen local economies, we need to ensure the protection of the environment and we need to be concerned about producing quality, safe and healthy food. when it comes to agriculture, we don't have to focus exclusively on technological solutions or on discussions about technological solutions, but we have to consider consumption patterns, and the waste problem, and the complex relationship that exists between the environment, biodiversity and health.
in writing. i consider the report by mr dess to be essential in the context of the global food crisis and environmental risks today. the common agricultural policy in its new form includes values such as consumer protection and regional cohesion. i believe that long-term productivity depends largely on the sustainable management of natural resources, another goal on the agenda. i welcome the initiative to involve farmers more actively in rural development programmes, which will lead to an increase in local competitiveness. food security is another priority under the new common agricultural policy. cooperation between member states is vital, as was shown in the e. coli crisis this summer. to avoid food price fluctuations, i support additional risk prevention measures that are available to all farmers in the eu. i also believe that it is important to ensure that the funds for agriculture are distributed fairly. here i highlight, for example, the impact of direct aid on increasing the profitability and competitiveness of small farms. it is also necessary to program special payments for areas marked by natural handicaps, which have special needs.
in writing. the common agricultural policy is facing a number of challenges, which call for a strategic decision by the european union and the member states on the future of agriculture. to be effective in addressing these challenges, the cap needs to act in the context of sound economic policies and sustainable public finances that contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives in the context of the 2020 strategy. i believe that the european union must continue to have sufficient instruments to combat market crises, supply crises, price and market fluctuations in the agricultural sector. i believe that the cap funds for the first and second pillars should be distributed equitably between member states and between farmers within a member state, thus reducing the large discrepancies in the distribution of these funds between member states. the second pillar of the cap is very important in the field of rural development and i believe that special attention should be paid to stimulating and encouraging young farmers. i therefore support the introduction of targeted measures in this pillar, to be set by the member states, to achieve the eu's priority targets so as to maintain compensation payments for the less-favoured areas in the second pillar.
in writing. food security is and will remain the main challenge for eu agriculture and beyond, as highlighted in the oecd-fao report agricultural outlook 2011-2020. i believe that we need to pay particular attention to the demographic challenges that affect the rural environment in particular. if we fail to manage demographic change and increase the attractiveness of rural areas for young farmers, we risk that this will become a real obstacle to sound and quality agricultural production over time. to do this, we are obliged to offer young people new attractive measures, substantial financial support, increased access to innovative services and infrastructure. in addition, there is a need for better coordination between financial support for rural development and other regional policies, and for cap funding to be maintained at a level that ensures that all the tasks proposed are fulfilled. in this way, we will facilitate a stronger economic, social and cultural involvement of young people in european union agriculture.
i shall vote tomorrow on the legislative package on european economic governance and i too would like to thank the rapporteurs, the hungarian presidency and the commission in particular for the really great efforts they have made to bring this legislative package to fruition. this european economic governance package has to be seen in conjunction with the other legislative package, which has already been adopted, on the financial sector, including the european financial supervisory architecture. i am convinced that by effectively implementing this legislation, no other member state will be left unarmed in the face of a future crisis and we will be able to prevent and correct fiscal imbalances, economic imbalances, and this is one of the best guarantees for economic growth and jobs. but i am concerned that the european institutions are unwilling to recognise an economic reality that we are facing today, namely that a member state that has a debt that it cannot pay can not be helped by adding new debt to the existing one, and even at higher costs. experience shows, and common sense tells us, that the solution is for the debtor country to get its house in order, and for the creditors to understand that the debt to be paid must be matched to the actual payment capacity of that country. if we do not do this, we will not save time but, on the contrary, we will waste time and the problem will become worse.
a unified eu strategy is needed to ensure a high level of competitiveness, sustainable growth and job creation. a strong, effective stability and growth pact is the key instrument. further efforts should therefore be made to prevent the adoption of unsustainable budgetary policies. the improved economic governance framework will be based on different interlinked policies. the package of proposals will encourage member states to pursue a prudent budgetary policy and, where appropriate, to take early adjustment measures to limit the application of sanctions. prevention is easier than cure.
in writing. at a time when the recession and the sovereign debt crisis are making themselves felt, we need strong economic governance at european level. however, the economic governance package, in its current form, would not allow the european union's economy to recover, but would instead bring it to a state where high unemployment and poverty would be pervasive. i think that the proposals in this package are not ambitious enough, they go exclusively in the direction of austerity and reduction of social rights of citizens. it does not mention elements that could underpin a revival of the european economy, such as investments in key areas of infrastructure, education, research and innovation. we are able to propose an alternative to this austerity model which, as we see in the case of greece, is proving to be severely limited. the creation of bonds for the joint issuance of part of the european public debt would automatically lower the cost of financing in the european union and allow for the resumption of investments. following the new deal model in the united states, the solution to the current economic and financial crisis will be a return to growth based on investment and job creation.
in writing. the economic crisis and its consequences have shown us that it is not national solutions but european solutions that are the basis on which the future of the eu must be built. a viable response to the sovereign debt crisis, the need to strengthen the euro and to return to a path of sustainable growth and job creation depends on effective coordination between member states, the strengthening of the stability and growth pact, in short, a strong europe, a goal also formulated in the slogan of the hungarian presidency of the european council. the european economic governance package on the european parliament's agenda is able to create the necessary mechanisms for the future of the eu as envisioned by its architects. the adoption of the economic governance package will mean close coordination, fiscal discipline, economic surveillance, effective rules for decision-making, strong european institutions, thus laying the foundations for the new eu. the economic crisis has irreversibly changed the world, and the need for a new financial architecture is becoming increasingly evident in the eu. we are at a turning point. the weakening of the ambition of the member states to complete the reforms triggered by the crisis, too much leniency, too many exceptions to the commonly accepted rules and a return to a new form of internal protectionism will be fatal.
the directive establishes the legal framework for the responsible management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which is a much-needed regulation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. germany has already announced that it will shut down a number of power plants. in the near future there will be other plants in other member states which will have to be shut down because they are reaching their final operational deadline. the national approach of the directive will result in the creation of radioactive waste sites throughout the union. it's a waste of resources and a source of public concern. it is the case now in romania, in my own region, with regard to the radioactive waste dump at kozloduy. i believe that a long-term approach, a truly european one, is needed, leading to the use of common technologies, to the saving of resources, to european funding mechanisms. a global approach and adequate information can win the trust and confidence of european citizens.
the issue of spent fuel and radioactive waste management is an important and pressing one, which has been given even greater prominence following the fukushima tragedy. the problem is a growing challenge, despite technological innovations and solutions, and waste management programmes. the management and disposal of radioactive waste is an existing problem and will remain so in the future. in europe, we are striving for energy security, environmentally friendly and stable energy production, but at the same time we must put increasing emphasis on a number of problems, such as the processing, transformation and disposal of the rapidly increasing amount of radioactive waste. this requires not only the technical conditions but also the rigorous political, legal and social structures. it would be worthwhile to consider, assess and plan pan-european cooperation in this field. all those responsible shall be involved in the establishment and development of the safe process. measures must be taken to protect future generations as well.
i welcome the drafting of this report in the light of the changes in world nuclear policy and the commission's proposal for a directive in this area. i stress the importance of correct application of the 'polluter pays' principle, as demonstrated by the disaster in japan. although nuclear energy is attractive in terms of its low cost, it puts the safety of employees and civilians first. i therefore support cooperation between member states for the safe disposal of nuclear waste. the transparency of this process also involves the public in determining the storage location and other details. the usefulness of regional research programmes in this field has already been demonstrated. i also believe that it is necessary for eu countries to share the waste treatment and storage facilities from nuclear power stations.
in writing. – the european union produces more that 40 000 m3 of radioactive waste each year, 80% is short-lived low-level radioactive waste and about 5% is long-lived low-level radioactive waste. it is important that the union will implement a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. romania is among those member states which are in favour of having the possibility to export radioactive waste to third countries. spent fuel from research reactors in romania needs to be either repatriated to the country of origin, russia or the united states or exported to third countries in special cases. for this reason i cannot support the export ban proposal in this report. as nuclear energy will remain part of the member states’ energy mix in the future it is important that such a report is adopted successfully in the plenary session of this parliament. spent fuels should be moved out of pools and into dry storage as soon as possible and high priority should be placed on the oldest radioactive wastes. furthermore, it is important that citizens have confidence in the principles governing the safety of repositories and in waste management programmes.
in writing. in everything we do, we must ensure the safety of people and the environment. support the implementation of a 'security culture' which includes ensuring safety standards, strong independent regulators, adequate human and financial resources and adequate public information. the process of informing the public must be transparent. strengthening transparency requires clarifying the responsibilities of the authorities and providing the public with reasoned and coordinated information in order to gain and maintain public confidence in the management of radioactive waste from the nuclear power generation process as well as from nuclear medicine.
the eu does not intervene in the administrative arrangements of its member states. this is important to emphasise, because today in romania some politicians explain the need for administrative reorganisation by saying that the country cannot otherwise draw more money from eu structural funds. in romania, a reform is currently under discussion, which would create eight nac2 level administrative units from the current 41 counties, ignoring geographical, economic, social and cultural realities. the debate surrounding the issue is mostly about hungarianism in romania. after the reform, this indigenous national community would no longer have a majority in any administrative unit, despite the provisions of the relevant council of europe convention, and would thus lose the basic conditions of its self-government. the eu must ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is not only applied by the member states, but also that the member states ensure that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizen.
as you may know, this weekend the second round of local elections took place in chisinau, republic of moldova. as observed by the osce observers, these elections, as well as those in other localities in the republic of moldova, were largely held in accordance with european and international standards, which was a real improvement on the parliamentary elections held in 2010. i can only welcome the results of the local elections in the republic of moldova, which have strengthened the position of the parties in the alliance for european integration, which is currently in government. the outcome of the elections is also a very clear signal from the moldovan citizens that their aspiration for a democratic and prosperous society and for the integration of the republic of moldova into the european union is strong and real, and should be an encouragement for the parties in the alliance for european integration to continue implementing the reforms they have committed to. personally, i welcome and i am very happy about the victory of mr. dorin chirtoacă for a new term as mayor of chisinau.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr eickhout on the preparation of this report. i believe that reducing greenhouse gas emissions in europe is essential in the context of the cancun summit conclusions. the eu must therefore maintain its role as a world leader in environmental protection. this is why a reform of its environmental policy implementation is necessary. i stress the importance of reviewing the mechanisms for monitoring emissions and taking them into account in the overall budget. an improvement of the current eu emissions trading scheme would also be useful. to this end, it is recommended that the scope of this system be extended to installations outside the industrial sector. i draw attention to the impact of european environmental policy on long-term investment in green technology.
in writing. the budgetary trilogue has become a crucial moment in the budgetary procedure and is an opportunity not to be missed. the report we are voting on today must give parliament's negotiating team a clear and strong mandate. member states are currently pursuing difficult austerity policies which have a negative influence on economic recovery. in this difficult context, the eu budget must play a fundamental role in helping the european economy and, in particular, the eu budget must also be linked to the objectives of agenda 2020. we cannot have such a strategy without putting the necessary funds at his disposal. on the other hand the 2012 budget is in a way the younger brother of the european governance package, but it needs to be an economic leg for the political package.
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and i am pleased that we are having this debate on the future of cohesion policy in the presence of commissioner johannes hahn. we need a strong and well-funded community regional policy for the future, for all european regions, which brings economic growth, innovation and competitiveness. for the coming programming period, i believe that a single strategic approach with a common set of implementing rules for the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund will generate added value. territorial cooperation will also play a vital role in successfully achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and, for this very reason, i believe that it must be much more open to potential partners from the private sector, to whom we must really give the chance to become full partners in territorial cooperation projects. we must also not forget the essential role that both national governments and the european commission play in the effective design and implementation of european policies at national, regional and local levels. as regards regional policy after 2013, i support the idea of creating intermediate regions to allow regions with a gdp between 75% and 90% of the union average to be truly supported, but by finding appropriate solutions. last but not least, i would like to stress the need for the regional dimension to have its rightful place both in the revised union budget and in the future financial framework. i therefore expect the commission to make appropriate proposals, reflecting in particular the views of the regi commission and the european parliament.
crossborder cooperation in a borderless europe is beneficial for local and regional authorities as it is an important element for the further development of the union's single market. but crossborder areas have an important characteristic, that of shared multicultural traditions and ethnic diversity, which usually provide a solid basis for people-to-people and community-to-community action in various fields. we all know that crossborder areas are often characterised by medium to high unemployment, with significant differences between regions, and by a high level of hidden unemployment, caused by the lack of registration of unemployed persons. as such, i believe that an integrated approach to the labour market in crossborder areas can be beneficial in finding solutions to structural problems and would bring demand and supply closer together. therefore, as the rapporteur has argued, objective 3 needs to be strongly strengthened.
cohesion policy is an effective tool for addressing the major challenges facing europe's regions today, such as globalisation, climate change or demographic trends. at union level, significant but insufficient progress has been made in the balanced development of the regions. we therefore need an ambitious cohesion policy available to all eu regions, which reduces existing inequalities. i believe that supporting the convergence needs of the less developed areas must remain a priority in the next programming period, so as to ensure equitable access to cohesion policy instruments. this will enable us to implement the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which stresses that an appropriate share of objective 1 (convergence) should be allocated to the regions most in need, in proportion to the severity of their development problems. the union will only be competitive in the face of global competition if cohesion policy can fully exploit the development potential of urban and rural regions with their endogenous potential and if it allows a sufficiently flexible response to the challenges and difficulties identified by the europe 2020 strategy. in this respect, innovation, education and training, energy, the environment, employment, competitiveness, skills and the fight against poverty are and must remain an integral part of structural and cohesion policy. the new cohesion policy must imply a clear focus on results and the implementation of the necessary reforms, while reducing bureaucratic constraints and simplifying the management of funds. i come from a country which will depend, especially in the period 2013-2020, on how we understand the uniform development of the union. in practice, the funds allocated now and over the next ten years to romania represent a long-term investment needed for the balanced development of the entire european union. i congratulate mr pieper and all the rapporteurs on the excellent report they have produced.
today's debate is the best plea for the need for a robust cohesion policy, well-funded in the future financial framework. inspired by the excellent speech of our committee chair, mrs hübner, and by a remarkable report by mr pieper on absorptive lessons, i ask you, commissioner, from the european perspective of the next funding cycle, how is it possible for the country with the lowest absorption rate, romania, to embark on a so-called administrative reform that has nothing to do with regional reform without an impact study, without even pretending to consult dg regio (dg regio learned about this project from the press), without consulting political actors, without consulting local actors, without consulting civil society, thus jeopardising the stability and predictability of the whole project.
there is no doubt that cohesion policy is a fundamental part of the evolution of the european union and, in my view, architecture is the backbone of european competitiveness. i still believe that the regions must be supported to achieve the objective of economic and social cohesion and that financial support must be ensured taking into account, in the first place, the regional gross domestic product. citizens must be guaranteed access to social, educational, health and transport infrastructure. it will thus be possible to double the efforts of economic development with a high quality of life, which will make our citizens stay at home in europe. ladies and gentlemen, smes are essential to increasing economic competitiveness and they must be further encouraged by making the rules for accessing funds more flexible and stimulating them. i therefore argue that equal access to quality infrastructure and services and support for smes are the basic directions in the architecture of regional development policy and that this is the way to global competitiveness.
in writing. the european parliament proposes in its report on the future strategy for cohesion policy after 2013 a balanced and beneficial position for the union. the union still needs a strong and well-funded cohesion policy. at the same time, better regulation is needed. projects with high european added value, fairness and accountability and a commitment by the member states, under contract with the european commission, to use all the funds allocated are needed. in a period of economic downturn, investment is needed to preserve jobs and to develop. cohesion policy is exclusively for investment. for the next financial year, the budget allocated to cohesion policy must be at least at the current level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr mario draghi's candidacy for president of the european central bank because i consider him to be a highly competent professional. at the hearing held in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mr draghi gave a full answer to all the questions put to him by meps. in this respect, we appreciated the constructive approach to the aftermath of the financial crisis in greece. mario draghi also showed a real will to implement an improved model of economic governance at eu level to avoid sovereign failures. this is why he prioritises the fight against inflation as part of the european central bank's stability objective and strengthening supervisory mechanisms in his candidacy. to ensure a strong economy, a truly effective stability and growth pact with automatic sanctions is needed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in respect of general motors belgium, an undertaking in the antwerp region, which is active in the production of machinery and equipment. following 2 834 redundancies, belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf on 20 december 2010. the request concerned redundancies within general motors belgium and four of its suppliers. between 14 june and 14 october 2010, 1 336 redundancies took place, and a further 1 498 redundancies took place before and after the reference period. as a result of the economic and financial crisis, europe has faced a drastic reduction in the demand for commercial and passenger cars, thus causing a significant decrease in car production. in belgium, in 2009 there was a decrease of 23,8% in car assembly activity and a decrease of 34,8% in car production compared to 2008. i stress the importance of the egf for the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market and ask for an assessment of the long-term integration of these workers into the labour market as a direct result of the measures financed by the egf. the egf should be used in a balanced manner by all member states.
in writing. − achieving social, economic and territorial cohesion is one of the important objectives of the european project, a goal that all member states have set themselves in the process of european integration. that is why i believe that the funding process for cohesion projects must be based on rigorous financial discipline, implementation in strategic areas and, not least, the principle of good governance. the aim is to reduce disparities between european regions. however, to achieve this, the whole scheme for implementing this policy needs to be simplified. the funds must be used and i believe we must overcome the biggest enemy of freezing or stagnating this type of project: the excess of european bureaucracy. we must not confuse bureaucracy with transparency. because not every piece of paper and every approval on file contributes to the transparency of cohesion projects. the disparities between european regions have been realized over long periods of time. i support the report's proposal that, in order to reduce these inequalities and to make european integration more efficient for all member states, we should reduce the time needed to approve funding, reduce bureaucracy and, with it, all the rules and procedures that, instead of helping the european union's cohesion policy, make it unnecessarily burdensome.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 cohesion policy programmes because cohesion policy is essential for achieving the eu 2020 objectives, especially in the field of employment and social affairs. i regret the delays in the project selection process in strategic areas such as transport, certain energy and environmental investments, the digital economy, social inclusion, governance and administrative capacity building. the selection and effective implementation of projects in certain areas is hampered by the lack of relevant preconditions, such as simpler national implementation procedures, clear national priorities in certain areas of intervention, the timely transposition of eu legislation, strengthened institutional and administrative capacities and excessive bureaucracy at national level. i believe that the creation of a european intermodal transport system based on the ten-t network and its interconnection with national road, rail and inland waterway projects is essential to ensure territorial, economic and social cohesion. i regret the insufficient investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects for housing construction and housing projects for marginalised communities. in the future, europe needs to invest substantially in innovation, education and new technologies.
in writing. − european urban diversity must be supported primarily through a flexible mechanism for the implementation of cohesion policy, a coordination and folding of urban development projects according to the needs and strategic development axes of each individual city. there is talk of smart urban development and the need for cities to improve and modernise their infrastructure and services. for this concept not to be empty, i think we have to trust the local authorities, the elected representatives of those cities. listen to the will of the communities, start any construction from their agenda of priorities, and trust that mayors know best what their cities' priorities are or should be. that is why i share the rapporteur's conviction that the supply of european funding must correspond to local requirements and to integrated strategic planning at european level. the european urban agenda should therefore aim to reduce disparities in the strategic areas needed for every modern european city, namely infrastructure, research and innovation, transport, environment, education, health and culture. because only in this way, through an integrated approach to cohesion policy, will we help today's cities to develop organically, sustainably and responsibly towards the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european urban agenda and its future in the context of cohesion policy. urban areas generate around 80% of gdp, are responsible for 70% of the energy consumed in the eu and are the most important centres of innovation, knowledge and culture. in the period 2007-2013, some eur 21.1 billion was allocated to urban development, representing 6.1% of the eu budget for cohesion policy. eur 3.4 billion is earmarked for the rehabilitation of industrial sites and contaminated land, eur 9.8 billion for urban and rural regeneration projects, eur 7 billion for green urban transport and eur 917 million for housing construction. smart cities require an intelligent communication, transport and energy infrastructure. i support the development of integrated urban mobility plans and encourage local authorities to modernise urban public transport to become greener and more efficient. the implementation of intelligent transport systems (its) in urban areas will increase energy efficiency and transport safety. as 99% of the european housing stock is made up of old buildings, i call on the commission and the member states to increase from 4% to 15% the share of the erdf that each member state can use to increase the energy efficiency of housing in the future multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − this european parliament resolution on objective 3 is important for removing the administrative and legislative obstacles that currently exist between member states. territorial cooperation, as proposed in the report, aims to bring member states together in the fields of services, infrastructure, town and country planning, and economic and social development. this cooperation has the potential to create a closer and more lasting union between eu member states. objective 3 presents a complex, multidimensional model of cooperation between partners in different member states, which requires a specific, concrete and unified approach and implementation in the member states, which will increase cohesion between member states. last but not least, this report draws attention to an important fact, namely that it is necessary to attract, motivate and involve private sector partners in order to achieve this territorial cooperation, since many services or infrastructures are operated and owned by partners in this sector.
in writing. − the need for increased flexibility in the use of funds and an administrative culture that promotes a multidisciplinary approach and simplification of the administration of funds is essential for establishing a common strategic framework for the structural funds. in the field of synergies between the structural funds, the european parliament stressed the need to avoid a high concentration of capacity in the economic centres of interest and 'top' regions of the european union. considers that an integrated approach to sectoral policies is needed to achieve an optimal result in terms of economic development and growth, reducing development disparities between regions, job creation, improving the quality of life, training workers for new jobs, social and territorial cohesion and the realisation of the european social model, which is a factor of cohesion and competitiveness of the european economy. concentrating joint action of the funds at regional or local level increases their added value and allows stakeholders to tailor specific actions to the real economic and social needs and thus to the employment situation in each specific region. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − a sound and properly funded cohesion policy is an essential tool for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it promotes a well-designed long-term investment strategy, generates added value, social inclusion and, at the same time, harmonious development throughout the european union. i believe we must support the member states and the regions by encouraging synergies between structural, social and rural policies. a common strategic framework for the next financial programming period would provide a strengthened approach and better exploitation of synergies between measures taken in european regions to support community policy objectives.
in writing. − the response that europe needs is a stability pact. the package is of major importance for the future of the eu and, in particular, of the euro area. i support this report because it provides a base for a structured economic dialogue. the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances is a powerful instrument to address fragilities arising, from medium- and long-term structural trends, from the enlarging divergences within the union. we need to have corrective mechanisms implemented at the right time.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances seeks to improve the commission's proposals on the creation of a strong instrument where fiscal discipline, growth and employment in the eu are interconnected and play a decisive role for the stability of the union and the euro in order to avoid future financial crises such as the present one. this regulation is intended to be a single instrument for preventing macroeconomic imbalances that may arise as a result of economic differences between eu member states and individual policies implemented at national level. it should be noted that this report builds on previous eu experiences with the functioning of the economic and monetary union, which identify the need for an improved economic governance framework, as proposed in this report.
in writing. − i decided to vote against four of the six proposals included in the economic governance package, as i considered that they contained exclusively austerity measures that would further weaken the european economy. to restore growth, we need an alternative model to the one proposed in the package, based on strategic investment and job creation.
in writing. − improving economic governance must be based on a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks, strengthened financial market regulation and supervision, and a credible and permanent mechanism for resolving crisis situations. i believe that coherence of policies aimed at growth and sustainable job creation is needed, with a particular focus on developing and strengthening the internal market, encouraging international trade and competitiveness and an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budgetary positions. i also believe it is extremely important that this strengthening of economic governance should take place in parallel with the enhancement of the democratic legitimacy of european governance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the final compromise as it represents an important step forward for consumer protection, providing added legal certainty for both consumers and traders. i believe that the directive has many merits, and one of them is the maximum harmonisation of distance contracts and off-premises contracts, with a few exceptions. it is essential for the development of the internal market by stimulating cross-border transactions and electronic commerce that european consumers enjoy uniform protection in these contracts, regardless of their country of origin. it is equally important for traders not to have to adapt to different requirements. through the information rules on delivery zones, the inclusive price and the standard 14-day right of withdrawal, this directive is likely to increase consumer confidence in cross-border transactions. i also welcome the solution for the right of withdrawal for digital products, as sales of such products are increasing and a solution was absolutely necessary. finally, the prohibition of excessive charges for payments by certain means, i.e. pre-selected cash registers, is very good news for consumers brought about by this directive.
in writing. −the new directive is a balanced agreement, bringing benefits such as the european-recognised right of consumers to change their mind within two weeks of receiving the goods ordered, the obligation for online traders to provide full information on the total price and the contact details of the trader. such a framework was needed for online transactions, as this is how most cross-border sales take place. we must look to the future to protect consumers from abusive contractual clauses. often, for banking, electronic communications and tourism services, contractual clauses are written in very small letters and customers often agree without reading the contractual clauses.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal for a consumer rights directive brings together four existing directives into a single legislative instrument, with the aim of simplifying and complementing the existing regulatory framework for consumer protection. the dual objective of the proposal is to ensure that all consumers in the eu-27 can rely on a high level of consumer protection and that businesses of all sizes are able to offer their goods and services to consumers in the eu-27. the new consumer rights rules cover almost all types of sales, whether in-store, by telephone or online, but strengthen in particular the provisions on international sales. the new legislation sets out what information the buyer must receive from the seller, the delivery conditions and rules that apply when the risk is borne by the buyer, and the buyer's right to cancel or refuse purchases or the right to have a good repaired or replaced. i support the proposal to introduce a combination of the principle of maximum harmonization and that of minimum harmonization, thus making it possible to maintain the rights acquired by consumers through national provisions.
in writing. − i voted for the compromise reached by the rapporteur in the negotiations with the council on the grounds of romania's interests. even if the political group i belong to had a different position, the one adopted in the environment committee of the ep, supporting an increase from 20% to only 35% of the production of tractors that can be placed on the market, even if they do not meet current environmental standards, the decision was to follow the interests of romania. under the current circumstances, romania is clearly benefited by a higher limit of this production, given the economic crisis, the crisis of the national agricultural sector and the technological gap.
in writing. − the directive proposed by the commission is certainly to be welcomed. it respects the environmental protection objectives adopted some time ago by the eu. in view of the serious economic crisis, the commission might have made more radical proposals, such as a moratorium on the directive, a change in the timing of the stages or an even higher percentage of flexibility. however, the commission has opted to introduce a measure which is simple, effective and timely and which will make it possible: (a) for manufacturers in the eu to sell tractors, overcome the current difficult economic crisis, find new resources for research and comply with the limits laid down by european law for environmental protection purposes; (b) for farmers to replace their oldest tractors with new ones whose engines will be less polluting. i support the compromise as the flexibility scheme could be increased provisionally and exclusively in stage iiib or to three years where no subsequent stage exist; for this period the level of flexibility could be maximum 37.50% .
in writing. − this proposal for a directive establishes the eu legal framework for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste and revises the commission's proposal for a council (euratom) directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. sustainable management of radioactive waste and spent fuel must cover the entire life cycle of waste (from generation to temporary or final storage and post-storage closure) and environmental remediation. at the same time, careful monitoring of environmental factors is required during the storage/storage of waste, as well as during its transport and the products obtained from the recycling of spent fuel. all these measures must be followed to ensure safety for health and protection of the environment.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the proposal for a council directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, because nuclear safety in the eu depends on the proper management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. the final responsibility for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste lies with the member states. they must ensure that information on spent fuel and radioactive waste management is made available to the local and regional authorities concerned, workers and the public and that they are effectively involved in the relevant decision-making process. the commission and the member states should ensure adequate financial resources in the long term for the activities and facilities required for spent fuel and waste management. the amendments we tabled called for education and training schemes to maintain and develop the expertise and skills needed to manage spent fuel and radioactive waste. i believe that a well-trained workforce and the provision of adequate working conditions contribute to increased nuclear safety. i am not in favour of banning the export of radioactive waste, but i do ask that all specific contracts concluded between member states and third countries comply with recommendation 2008/956/euratom on criteria for the export of radioactive waste and spent fuel to third countries.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2012 draft budget. there are voices saying that, given the existence of large budget deficits and debt levels, member states should contribute as little as possible to the union budget. i think there's been a mistake. 2012 is the penultimate year of the current financial year. it's an important year, a financial peak for european programmes. in times of crisis, investment is needed for jobs and development. the eu budget is 95% investment budget. funds are distributed to european projects and policies in all member states, albeit in different proportions. the benefit is directly or indirectly for all member states. the proposed budget increase is absolutely necessary. i don't see why you'd be against this increase. these are absolutely necessary policies, approved by the member states and therefore need to be funded to be completed.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would first like to express my gratitude to my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteur for the opinion and to other members of this parliament who contributed to this report. i would also like to express my thanks to the council and commission for all the successful cooperation during the trialogue meetings led by ms sharon bowles. i would also like thank mr van es, our adviser in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for his support. with regard to financial conglomerates, there are potential risks arising from multiple uses of capital, management complexity, concentration, conflicts of interest and other so-called group risks when several licences for different financial services are combined. therefore, financial conglomerates must be placed under supplementary supervision, consolidated at group level. the commission intends to improve european legislation on supplementary supervision in two steps. the first step is to address the most urgent issues through amending the current directive and updating several sectoral directives. the second step, probably in 2012, is to present a proposal for a new directive on this supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates, based on a more fundamental debate on this issue. through our joint efforts we, the european parliament, council and commission, now have a good consensus on how to change the current directive at this first step. our main proposals refer to defining mixed financial holding companies and placing them under supplementary supervision – which includes bringing alternative investment fund managers under the scope of this current directive – introducing the possibility of stress-testing at the level of each financial conglomerate, ensuring that the new european supervisory authorities issue general guidelines regarding supervision of financial conglomerates through the joint committee, amending the solvency ii directive and improving the transparency of supplementary supervision. in view of the second step, our report includes a review clause. we ask the commission to look into the possibility of placing under supplementary supervision non-regulated entities, in particular special-purpose vehicles. the identification criteria of financial conglomerates owned by wider non-financial groups active in the banking, insurance and investment services sector are materially relevant in the internal market for financial services. the possibility of introducing mandatory stress-testing at a group level must also be considered.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just now we were discussing, mrs bowles, mrs swinburne and myself, the transatlantic dialogue and the need to see how we can coordinate our regulatory efforts. when i am in the united states and even in europe, i am very often reminded of the differences, which we must bear in mind, between the european and the american banking sector. there are many differences. first, in europe, the banking sector finances three quarters of the economy, compared with only one quarter in the united states. basel iii, like basel ii, we're going to apply them to 8,230 banks here in europe. in the united states, it will be about 20 banks. there is a third difference: the existence of the subject we are dealing with here in europe - the rapporteur, mr stolojan, has just mentioned it very competently - namely the question of conglomerates. they are a european specialty. that is why the commission warmly welcomes the agreement reached on the ficod proposal and would like to thank all those of you who have been committed to bringing this process to a successful conclusion, and first of all you, mr stolojan, the rapporteur, the non-representatives, mrs bowles, mrs swinburne, mr peter skinner, mr lamberts and mr klute. i would also like to thank the belgian and hungarian presidencies for making these steps possible. financial conglomerates and insurance groups are, as i have said, a specific feature of the european banking landscape. it's a business model that works well. however, the crisis has shown that, again, certain aspects of the directive on financial conglomerates need to be strengthened. that is why the commission made this proposal in august 2010 to amend the directive. the agreement between parliament and the council on these amendments will significantly improve the supervision of financial conglomerates by closing a regulatory loophole. the inclusion of financial companies known as mixed holdings in the sectoral directives, i.e. in the capital requirements directive for banks and in solvency ii for insurers, will now monitor the highest level of conglomerates more effectively and i believe this will help to strengthen financial stability. i am particularly grateful to your rapporteur, mr stolojan, for his decisive role in improving the directive in several important areas which were not covered by the commission's original proposal. i am thinking of the stress testing, which he mentioned just now, and the strengthening of the role of the joint committee of the european supervisory authorities. all these improvements are in line with the "supervision" package. the agreement will also extend the scope of supplementary supervision to portfolio management companies and alternative funds controlled by a conglomerate. finally, i would also like to welcome the agreement reached on the transparency of group structures. i would also like to say a word about the correlation tables, which are a controversial subject, difficult at the time of the trilogues. i very much appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, the importance which parliament attaches to this subject. i sometimes find it difficult to understand the difficulties of the council in communicating to the commission, with the traditional transposition measures, these tables showing how the directive in question has been transposed into national law. i think that this should normally be part of the transposition work carried out by the member states. i am very pleased with the support of parliament on this point. the commission considers such tables to be an integral part of our efforts to improve legislation, and i would like to thank you for including them in the final text, as you propose, and as the commission also suggested initially.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, the functioning of the investor compensation schemes has been improved and brought into line with banking scheme standards. i would like to mention that we cannot send a signal of equivalence of treatment between capital market investors and depositors in commercial banks. although both categories have to be protected, with regard to protection for investors in securities it should be considered that the risk of the latter is taken by choice. i welcome the introduction of the lending system between the schemes and i hope that parliament in plenary will maintain my own amendment regarding the postponement of reaching the guarantee ceiling by romania and bulgaria, in order to respect the terms of the accession treaties.
i'd like to start by congratulating my colleague, mr. stolojan. this proposal for a directive is part of the developments in supplementary supervision with a view to making risk management practices more efficient. the review of the supplementary supervision framework for financial entities belonging to a financial conglomerate is dictated by the globalisation that has impacted the european financial market. the financial crisis has exposed major weaknesses in the supervision of the financial sector. i would point out that the purpose of the review of this framework is to oversee the activities of the largest european financial groups. certain financial groups cannot be subject to supplementary supervision because of their legal structure. at the same time, it is sometimes difficult to separate banking from insurance. finally, i would stress that it is very important that financial groups be subject to identical, harmonised supervision, which would strengthen european supervisory mechanisms.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − mr president, supplementary supervision of a financial conglomerate should lead to a reduction in the systemic risk that such conglomerates pose to the market. supervision at group level will be added and will not replace the supervision of each member of the conglomerate under the applicable arrangements for supervision in the banking market, the capital market or the insurance market. therefore we will have supervision at group-member level, over which we will overlap the supervision at group level to which the member belongs. this supplementary supervision will not produce extra bureaucracy as long as there is cooperation between the european and national authorities with regulatory responsibilities.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank all the speakers who have taken up mr stolojan's line. a few remarks and a few clarifications. mr skinner, first of all, i want to thank you for following these matters with great skill. i think, as you do, mr skinner, that this text will considerably strengthen surveillance on a global and consolidated level. like you, i think this is part of the g20 agenda which i have often mentioned to you. mrs băsescu referred to it earlier. no actor, no sector, no product should be left out of effective regulation and intelligent supervision. mr siekierski has just mentioned this aspect of overall supervision. mr. skinner, regarding the discussions we have with the united states, i told you the time i spend there; we are confident, but we are not foolish. we are not going forward in every way. the text on derivatives which we discussed with mr langen has been the subject of much technical consultation with the american supervisors throughout the summer. as regards the discussion with the united states, first of all on the substance, mr skinner, i can assure you that these discussions are extremely intense, rich and that nothing is left out. i have made this point very clear when i met the american authorities, the american minister, and explained that we would be dealing in depth with this specific european question. these issues are not being dealt with, mr skinner, formally in the framework of the transatlantic dialogue, but in the framework of the basel joint forum, and this makes a certain sense, objectively, since the ficods are global players. we are following this work very closely here as well. mrs bowles recalled the positive result, thanks to you, obtained on the correlation tables and their inclusion in the text which we wished. i want to agree with mr giegold on the need for consolidated overall supervision. this question of the joint committee, which mr morganti also raised, is important. i also want to tell him that we have, together, planned a revision for 2012, maybe even 2013; we'll do everything we can. mr giegold, these amendments you are about to adopt are only a first step. we need to continue to strengthen the legislative framework for conglomerates, in particular in the text of the supervisory package, and the role of the joint committee, in the light of the lessons that we could learn in a few years from the application of crd 4 and the solvency ii package. therefore, on this very important subject, which is specific to europe but which affects powerful companies, i am happy to continue our dialogue to strengthen the surveillance of these conglomerates in other debates, as i have just said, in 2012 and 2013, and i hope that we can do so, as mrs bowles has requested, with the greatest possible audacity.
rapporteur. − mr president, i thank all the speakers who raised several issues in this debate, some of which we had a long discussion on during the trialogue meetings. my colleagues proposed some issues as amendments, and the main obstacle we had in agreeing on these issues was the lack of impact assessments. we should not forget that we are discussing the financial sector, which is very sensitive to all kinds of regulation, and each regulation has a cost. therefore we should be very careful when we propose different regulation for entities operating in this sector. i very much hope that the commission will be able – maybe next year – to come up, as they proposed, with a new proposal for a directive on supplementary supervision of financial conglomerates. once again i want to thank mr barnier the commissioner, and his staff, who worked very hard with the hungarian presidency and with our colleagues, in order to arrive at this consensus, which i hope will be voted on tomorrow.
i also welcome the commission's initiative to create a legal framework on short selling and cdss, relating to situations where market operations would become a threat to financial stability or to market confidence. i agree with the proposal to introduce a transparency regime, which involves the notification to the competent authority of significant net short positions in shares, subject to specific thresholds. under normal circumstances, short selling favours market liquidity and contributes to efficient price setting. however, in markets in difficulty, this can amplify the price decline. this would lead to disorderly markets and systemic risks. regulators must be given clear powers to restrict or prohibit short selling in exceptional circumstances. they will be exercised in cooperation with esma.
in writing. unlike long sales, where the risk is reduced to the price difference between the purchase and resale, short sales are unlimited in risk, with theoretical infinite loss. in view of the unlimited risks that a seller and short seller assume, it was considered necessary to adopt this regulation. however, certain notifications or procedures may have slightly more relaxed deadlines. in addition, speculative transactions, alongside hedging, are part of this market and should be reported to esma. speculative transactions are not harmful in themselves, but their uncontrolled development is dangerous.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would first like to warmly thank mr olle schmidt, and also the econ committee and its chairman, mrs sharon bowles, for the very ambitious signal - mr schmidt, unequivocal - that parliament is sending on this important matter. the strengthening of investor compensation schemes is one piece in a coherent package which also includes - i remind you - the deposit guarantee and the white paper on insurance guarantee funds. it is a comprehensive package which was adopted by the commission a year ago. this is an important proposal in our response to the crisis. users, retail investors, are among the most vulnerable actors in the financial system and they are also the first victims of the crisis. it is not only right to protect them - our fellow citizens would not understand failure in this area - but also logical. a sound investment requires the assurance that one will be well compensated in the event of an extreme situation, such as fraud or operational errors that would result in the disappearance of securities. investor compensation therefore contributes to restoring confidence in the financial system - this is one of the lessons of the crisis - but also to the creation of a genuine internal market for financial services. it was this logic that was to lead the co-legislators to adopt, on the basis of a commission proposal in 1997, the very first directive on investor compensation. this directive has been useful, but it needs to be improved; that's what we're doing together today. ladies and gentlemen, i have long been a supporter of a policy of prevention, as we say in french, de prévention. it is always cheaper than repairing it, and i have, in other areas such as ecology, devised mechanisms for the provision of care in my own country. that is why i want this guarantee fund mechanism here. first of all, mr schmidt, i share the ambitious approach that characterizes your report. the agreement of parliament on the principle of prefinancing is a very positive point. for us - and for the commission - this is a sine qua non for the system to be credible. what is the point of providing a high level of cover if there is not enough money available? to say that we could raise money as and when we need it is quite delusional in times of stress. secondly, mr schmidt, i am also in favour of aligning the level of cover on the deposit guarantee to eur 100 000, as you have proposed. we in the commission had proposed eur 50 000, i.e. a lower level than for deposit guarantee in the banking sector because the risks to financial stability seem to us to be higher in the latter sector and lower in the other. i am thinking in particular of the phenomenon of bank runs as we experienced with the northern rock bank in 2008. but i'm willing to consider your proposal, which is more ambitious. finally, i welcome the fact that parliament is preserving the mechanism of mutual borrowing between funds. i see this as a further demonstration of your commitment to the emergence of a more harmonized, more shared economic approach, which is essential to overcome the challenges of the crisis. of course, mr schmidt, there are a few points here and there which are subject to debate or to divergence from the commission's original proposal. for example - as you mentioned in your speech - it seems to me that the extension of cover to ucits is natural, given the attractiveness of this product to retail investors. you requested that this measure be postponed. that said, i note your wish to review it in the context of the revision of the ucits directive in a few months' time. you can count on the commission to do more, mr schmidt. moreover, the reduction of the pre-financing to 0.3% will have to be carefully evaluated if you really want to increase the coverage to eur 100 000. it is no secret, ladies and gentlemen, that increasing coverage while reducing funding risks potentially putting the system in a difficult or stressful situation. finally, i have some reservations about the introduction of an amendment which seeks to cover what is known as 'bad advice'. i share your objective: finance is a complex discipline and there are a number of charlatans who have been quick to exploit the less-informed consumers. however, this situation is rather governed by the rules of conduct of the mifid directive, the violation of which gives rise to liability actions. the idea is also difficult to implement. it could lead to a substantial increase in the number of situations in which we would have to use the compensation funds without the funding being revised accordingly. so, mr schmidt, quite frankly, the concept of bad advice is quite uncertain in our view, and it could lead to significant differences of interpretation between countries and to further fragmentation of the market. that is why we find it difficult to accept the introduction of this concept in the text. but overall, mr schmidt, in thanking you again for the excellent work done by you, the fictitious rapporteurs and the coordinators, i can say that parliament and the commission - that is what is important to me - clearly share a common vision on this matter. it is an ambitious solution, it is a european solution and the council will have to take it into account. this is the signal you send to the member states so that they can quickly agree on a general approach. i am counting on the polish presidency to make every effort to convince those countries which have not yet done so to adopt this more european approach, which is more favourable to retail investors. in total, any credible agreement must provide for a sufficiently high coverage, a credible level of pre-financing and easy access to compensation. that is what we are working towards, mr schmidt, and i would like to thank you for that.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. − madam president, the functioning of the investor compensation schemes has been improved and brought into line with banking scheme standards. i would like to mention that we cannot send a signal of equivalence of treatment between capital market investors and depositors in commercial banks. although both categories have to be protected, with regard to protection for investors in securities it should be considered that the risk of the latter is taken by choice. i do not think it is a good idea to increase the threshold to eur 100 000 because this will put too much burden on broker dealers. i welcome the introduction of the lending system between the schemes and i hope that parliament in plenary will maintain my own amendment regarding the postponement of reaching the guarantee ceiling by romania and bulgaria, in order to respect the terms of the accession treaties.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to express my views to mr bodu by telegram and to express my interest in a number of the issues you have raised. objectively, mr bodu, there are differences between deposit guarantee on the one hand and compensation for investors on the other. but i said earlier that if there was sufficient funding, i was in favour of the alignment that mrs berès also mentioned. mr gauzès, yes, we will consider extending the ucits. i am aware of the reservations of parliament on this matter. i think, however, mr gauzès, that it is useful to include this in the scope of the directive. but we'll try to convince each other and discuss this issue. i also think, mr gauzès, that all investors should be treated equally. in any case, i thank you for having once again stressed the need to protect investors properly, as mr mölzer has just said. mrs berès herself said that i had insisted on the overall package in which this text is contained, so we are not at the end of the road, and this concerns investors as well as insured persons. i would like to point out, mrs berès, that the future text on central securities depositories will be an additional opportunity to draw a number of conclusions from the madoff case. i also noted two points which i found interesting and which i think are important, although they have technical aspects. firstly, the inclusion of insurance contracts. i think that's a good question; i will look at that and also study the difficulties and technical problems that this may pose. secondly, there is an issue which i am obviously sensitive to, namely the excessive, sometimes exorbitant, indebtedness to which some local authorities have been subjected. i shall be listening to your debate on this matter and we shall consider how to deal with it. finally, mrs berès, like mr giegold, you have raised the question of bad advice, and i think that is a legitimate question. i want to preserve or protect people, too. is this the right legal vehicle to process her? it is a question of a legal and technical nature which may be different and that would require, in particular, mr giegold, that we have a coherent, harmonized definition of what this notion of bad advice should be. nevertheless, i understand your insistence. i see a broad consensus on this issue and we shall therefore examine this question in the light of your debate today and your questions, which i have recorded.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your understanding. cecilia malmström was on a plane that arrived late, against her will. she asked me to apologize. she's on her way to meet us, so, mr. coelho, i'll give her your message. i think she'll be here in a few moments to take over; in the meantime, i should like to thank you very warmly, mr coelho, on behalf of the commission, for the constructive approach you have shown throughout the negotiations on this proposal with - i think i can say this - fruitful cooperation between the three institutions. i think we have thus achieved our common objective. this proposal responds to the explicit request of the european parliament and the council, as you know better than anyone, made in 2006, when the basic instruments for the second generation of the schengen system and the visa information system were adopted. according to the impact assessments, the proposal now includes eurodac as well. the main task of the future agency will be to ensure that these crucial it systems operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and that data exchange is carried out in full compliance with data security and data protection rules. in the future, the agency is to develop other very large-scale information systems in the area of freedom, security and justice, on the basis of legislative proposals which have been or will be adopted by the co-legislator. as regards the compromise proposal, mrs malmström told me that she was satisfied that the main amendments of the european parliament had been incorporated into the compromise text. the commission would, however, like to emphasize and make clear its intention to make a statement, which is included in the council's report, recalling that the principle of institutional autonomy of the european union precludes third states, including associated states, from being granted voting rights in the agency. consequently, the commission's acceptance of the compromise of the co-legislator is based on the principle that this compromise does not grant voting rights to the associated countries, nor does it create expectations in this respect. that is what i wanted to say, mr coelho, ladies and gentlemen, and madam president, on behalf of cecilia malmström, thanking you for your understanding.
the rapporteur for the opinion, the committee on budgetary control. − the operational management of sis ii, vis, eurodac and other large-scale information technology systems is vital for the future of the european area of freedom, security and justice. it is therefore essential to establish a single authority to ensure the operational management of these information systems. we are in a period of budgetary constraints which must be reflected in the work of the european bodies. i support the proposal that the agency's strategy be based on a multiannual staff policy plan and a draft annual work programme with clear objectives and performance indicators. i regret that the budgetary control committee's proposal to reduce the number of members of the management board was not accepted. i respect the right of member states to be involved in decision-making at agency level, but i believe that a 29-member management board is a costly and burdensome structure that does not contribute to efficiency. i believe that the first priority of the agency should be to clarify the situation in sis ii. an analysis and decision on the timetable and costs of completing this system is required.
and i would like, first of all, to acknowledge the excellent work done by my colleague carlos, who has once again demonstrated his exceptional expertise in this field. i would like to make two comments on the establishment of this new agency, which i also consider to be very useful. first, in the current context, where cyberattacks have become a threat of the highest global importance, we need to ensure that the security of the databases managed by this agency is of the highest standard. secondly, at least at this stage, the new agency, if it were to function, would be without part of its scope of activity, as the sis ii system is still far from being operational. i therefore take this opportunity to ask the commission and the commissioner to honour their commitment to complete the sis ii system in due time.
the proposal to set up this agency is a natural one, since the commission does not have to be the manager of these large-scale information systems, precisely to ensure total transparency and to remove any conflict of interest. please note the scale of this system composed of three parts - sis ii, vis and eurodac - which, due to its major importance and the interconnectedness between them, requires the protection of a single well-defined entity. i believe that fragmented and uncorrelated administration would lead to a desynchronisation between these systems, which could have devastating effects on the protection of personal data, visa-related information and asylum applications. i therefore fully support the establishment of this specific agency for the operational management of large-scale information systems as a measure to protect security and integrity in the european union.
in a letter sent on 16 may 2011 to the directorate-general for home affairs, the legal service of the european commission warns that the draft eu-us agreement on the exchange of pnr data is not compatible with fundamental human rights. the commission's legal experts noted concerns about the draft eu-us agreement, such as the proportionality of its application to minor crimes that are not part of the goal of preventing terrorism or serious crime. the bill proposes to retain the data collected for up to 15 years and provides no legal recourse. the commission's legal service points out that its previous observations were not taken into account in the drafting of the current version. i would like to ask the commission whether it is currently negotiating with the united states and separately with australia and how the commission views this legal report, because by ignoring it the commission is disregarding the legal opinion of its own legal service.
i understand how important pnr agreements are for the european union, but at the same time it is also important to strike a real balance between the protection of the privacy of european citizens and the need to combat terrorism. commissioner, we need to have firm guarantees from these countries that the level of protection of personal data of european citizens will be at the same level as within the european union. equivalent rules to those in the european union must also exist with regard to the retention period of data and access to administrative and judicial remedies. it was not appropriate for me to raise this evening the question of the lack of reciprocity of visa-free travel for five member states - bulgaria, the czech republic, cyprus, poland and romania - in relation to the united states and canada, but you have done so and i would like to ask you when this somewhat embarrassing problem for the european union will be resolved.
mr president, i underline the importance of free movement of workers who directly participate in and benefit from the eu project. european citizens are taking advantage of this right, not only working in different member states, but also building a new life, career, and families. the free movement of workers did not create turbulence on labour markets. on the contrary, it contributed to the economic growth of member states that opened their labour markets. once you work in a country you become a contributor to the budget of that country. consequently you should legally receive social security benefits. therefore i urge the dutch authorities to open their labour market to romanian and bulgarian workers, bearing in mind the requests and evaluations made by different experts who assess the effects of this right on their countries.
i want to refer to the decision of the finance committee of the danish parliament on friday, because it brought us very bad news: denmark wants to establish permanent border controls with germany and sweden starting tomorrow. i join those who have already protested in europe against this decision to restrict the freedom of movement of european citizens. i also find it unacceptable that parties which live only by opposing immigration are blackmailing people. not obsessions of this kind, but, i believe, the projects of young europeans should be the basis for decisions in the member states. i ask the commission to react quickly, as it promised to do at the outset, and i hope that the danish authorities will reconsider this unfortunate idea.
recently, the public agenda in romania has been occupied by a very important topic: administrative reorganization. unfortunately, the debate has been more about the form of the project than the substance. the issue of administrative reorganisation is a topical one, especially for the new member states. from the european parliament's perspective, it is important because it has two major effects: increasing the absorption of european funds and improving the relations of local communities with state authorities. it also means decentralization. for these reasons, i think it is important to talk about administrative organisation models at european level. from the perspective of strategic development, in the coming years, this process will lead to an irreversible break with the concept of the communist state. it will mean moving towards a state built on the european concept, which puts the emphasis on regional development.
at its plenary session last month, the european parliament strongly condemned, in an emergency resolution, the ukrainian government's practice of influencing the judiciary to compromise opposition leaders. i would like to draw attention to the fact that such practices, and perhaps even more serious ones, are not only taking place outside the european union but also in romania, a member state of the union. the current power has managed to keep a part of the state's judicial system for its own political interests. president basescu never misses an opportunity to prove this, by revealing in advance the triggers of criminal prosecutions, investigations and arrests. the fabrication of files at the behest of the authorities for opposition leaders and selective prosecutions are, unfortunately, widespread practices in romania. the european parliament must condemn the power practices in romania, which endanger the rule of law and democracy, by adopting a resolution like the one on ukraine.
since 1 july, the netherlands has applied measures which severely discriminate against romanian and bulgarian citizens, who, along with non-eu nationals, will only receive work permits in exceptional cases. as regards commitments, romania has fulfilled its part, including the contribution to the common budget. whatever the problems of the new member states' adjustment to the rules of the european union, i do not believe that they give a member state the right to discriminate against other citizens who have equal rights with any other citizens of the union countries. unfortunately, these signs of national selfishness have been multiplying in recent times, despite the fact that the current crisis must demonstrate that the solidarity which underpins the european construction is not an empty word. we have already spoken of the danish gesture of introducing customs controls at the internal frontiers of the union. i do not think we should leave the european construction in the hands of populist and extremist parties, which feed the fears of the population and attack the founding values of the european union for hypothetical electoral gains. i ask the commission to call on the governments of countries with differing standards to take the necessary measures to ensure that all citizens are treated equally within the european union.
as the experts point out in the revised june 2011 document 'outcome indicators and targets towards a new system of monitoring and evaluation of cohesion policy', more steps are needed in the development of the new monitoring and evaluation system. adequate human resources, as well as a better quality database and data collection sources, are the foundation of effective evaluation. we need to get involved now in taking the steps that will prepare us. member states, together with the commission, must have a clear plan for the training of experts from managing authorities. in addition, the associative structures of local public administration authorities must be involved both in the preparation of human resources and in the adaptation of databases and sources of statistical information.
today, the fourth of july, we celebrate a jubilee, 235 years since the american declaration of independence. it's a wonderful celebration, marking, as griffith's film the birth of a nation says, i'm gonna honor america's national day in my own way by invoking a few maxims and aphorisms. mark twain: "it's good that america was discovered, but it would have been even better if it had been missed". americans have thirty-two religions and one kind of food. henry james: i could go back to america to die, but never, never to live. king edward viii: the thing that impressed me the most in america was the way parents obey their children. albert camus: "you poor bitch, one day we'll have to choose between russia and america. george washington: "a people without religion can only be ruled by cannons" and cornelius vadim tudor, that is, the one who is speaking to you: "oh, god, lie to the americans until they steal the planet".
less than 50% of romanian high school graduates passed the baccalaureate exam this year. it's the worst performance in 20 years. not coincidentally, this is happening under a government that has allocated the lowest percentage of gross domestic product to education in 20 years: 2.73% versus the 6% that the law requires. it's also the smallest budget allocation for education in the entire european union. this year, teachers' salaries have been cut by as much as 60%. many teachers have chosen to leave the system to survive. in the last two years, there has been no investment in this system. major decisions, such as closing schools, were taken without consulting parents, teachers, trade unions or european partners. all this is happening at a time when the european union should be pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 programme, which include promoting knowledge, innovation and education.
the reform of the single market must be complemented by ensuring access to communications for all european citizens. this report provides solutions to effectively address this problem. i believe that this is how social inclusion and cross-border investment are promoted. the correct implementation of the universal service directive is therefore the key to the completion of the single market. the single emergency number 112 is one of the european union's successful innovations. the information campaign for the population must be continued in order to make this service more efficient. i welcome the encouragement of cooperation between the institutions responsible for managing emergency situations in different member states. i also support the initiative to use translators in these services and the introduction of caller location. in extreme cases, every minute counts.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission thinks the 112 emergency number is great! on behalf of the commission and ms kroes, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms rapti, on the work that she has done, and also to congratulate the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the work they have done on this report. regarding universal services, i am glad that the commission and parliament take very much the same line when it comes to what role the universal service should play in achieving the common objective of broadband coverage. it should provide a safety net to ensure that citizens are not prevented from participating in society through a lack of affordable access to essential telecom services. universal service is not the only means, nor the key driver, for achieving our ‘broadband for all’ objectives, and it should take its appropriate, proper place within the range of instruments available to us. given the potentially significant costs involved in ensuring broadband roll-out across europe, we need to ensure that the burden of legal obligations does not fall unfairly on the telecom industry or result in increased consumer prices. the flexibility given by the revised telecom rules should be exercised in a coherent manner right across the eu and take appropriate account of conditions on the ground and of the potential impact on the telecoms industry and consumers. the commission is therefore planning to issue a communication, as has been mentioned, on the role of universal service in a broadband environment following the public consultation last year. we have also shown our willingness to help member states in the implementation process by developing and providing guidance on the application of the existing universal service rules, as called for in the report. we are at the moment in discussion with member states and the industry on the contents of this guidance. we have also consulted berec, which is due to give its opinion very soon. on the other hand, the commission agrees that the roll-out of 112 services has contributed to better access for european citizens to emergency services, but we need to reap the full benefits of the revised telecom rules, notably on improving access to 112 facilities for disabled users and transmission of precise caller location information. the commission is committed to supporting the development, standardisation and take-up of advanced emergency communication technologies. it considers that parliament’s proposals to define key performance indicators for the emergency services could be a good way forward in enhancing common performance standards. obviously, the commission agrees that the life-saving function of the 112 emergency number cannot be effective if we do not make people truly aware that 112 protects them everywhere in the european union. that is why the commission will keep pushing member states to step up their efforts in promoting 112. improvements to the 112 system depend heavily on the member states’ cooperation. the commission has been actively promoting the exchange of technical expertise and best practice within the expert group on emergency access, mainly on the implementation of the revised telecom rules on 112 and next-generation emergency access, including standardisation. i can assure you that the commission will continue to closely cooperate with member states in order to ensure high and compatible performance on national 112 systems which keep pace with ever-evolving technologies.
in writing. increased mobility at european level has also necessitated the idea of a single number for emergency calls, precisely to increase the efficiency of the services offered to citizens. the number 112, part of the obligations member states have assumed for eu accession, serves this purpose, although only 26% of europeans can identify it as an emergency number, according to the latest eurobarometer. we therefore see the need to promote the single 112 number more so that it does not lose its usefulness in the member states, while giving up the promotion of other national numbers. due to the mobility of european citizens, we need to consider the efficient handling of emergency calls in foreign languages, as well as alternatives to voice calls: sms, e-mail or fax, especially for the hearing impaired. at the technical level, it is essential to reduce missed emergency calls, to reduce response times and to reduce the number of false calls, which can far exceed the number of real calls. as a romanian, where the 112 number has been working effectively for several years, i believe it is important to support the exchange of experience between the emergency services of the member states, as well as joint training programmes for experts and non-governmental organisations.
i believe that budget support for developing countries is more effective than project-based funding. this reduces the marginal costs and fragmentation of the costs. in addition, contributions can be tailored to the specific requirements of each country on the basis of a continuous dialogue between donors and beneficiaries. i stress the importance of transparency in this process. the active involvement of the european commission, local civil society and national parliaments is essential in this regard. the principle of common ownership of the implementation of the funds is also a decisive factor in their effectiveness. i believe that the eu should maintain conditionality as the basis for budget support. this will ensure respect for human rights in developing countries.
in writing. i believe that a change in the current energy generation portfolio is needed by moving towards more renewable energy sources and therefore i call on member states to adapt infrastructure to the energy mix needed to meet the eu's renewable energy, greenhouse gas (ghg) emission reduction and energy efficiency targets. substantial investments in energy infrastructure are needed to achieve this by 2050 (approximately eur 200 billion). failure to make these investments would mean: much higher costs in terms of environmental degradation, higher energy prices and energy insecurity and dependence. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. member states should undertake risk mapping as a decision-making tool and to monitor the results of the creation and improvement of smart, interconnected networks. upgrading national energy networks and interconnecting them into a super-smart grid could provide a stable and secure flow of energy at affordable prices for citizens and create more green jobs.
mr president, it is my pleasure to challenge mr langan. aş dori să vă întreb dacă aţi citit opinia comisiei de la veneţia referitoare la noua constituţie ungară, şi, dacă da, care este opinia dvs. în legătură cu acest raport, care este, probabil, cel mai critic pe care l-am văzut în 20 de ani în europa?
in writing. despite economic developments in greece and the macroeconomic instability in other member states, the hungarian presidency was dominated by debates on strengthening economic governance. the hungarian presidency made a full contribution, at a technical level, to the decision on these issues endorsed by the european council in june this year. however, the first reading of the commission's legislative package on economic governance was not adopted during the hungarian presidency, and the ep's vote on it was postponed until july. in the field of external relations, the completion of the accession negotiations with croatia and the establishment of a clear horizon for the signing of the accession treaty is undoubtedly a success of the hungarian presidency. unfortunately for romania, the hungarian presidency has been overshadowed by a lack of stronger commitment to schengen accession. other areas where notable progress has been made and for which i would like to congratulate the hungarian presidency are the adoption of the eu strategy for the danube and the eu framework strategy for roma inclusion, with the hungarian presidency being actively involved in the process of finalising them and giving them the desired visibility.
genetically modified organisms have not provided the miracle solutions that the biotech industry originally claimed. the promises were for high yields and high drought resistance crops that required less chemical treatment. in reality, we have reached a situation where a few companies own a growing share of the seeds and crops used to produce food and make huge profits from selling the chemicals needed to grow these crops. this is gradually evolving into a monopoly of food resources and at the same time has serious consequences for biodiversity. in addition, we do not yet fully understand the effects of genetic manipulation. national governments must have the right to stop the cultivation of these crops if they pose a danger to the environment or on socioeconomic grounds, and the legal right to restrict cultivation also implies responsibility.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund is an indispensable financial support instrument in the management of natural disasters caused by floods in slovenia, croatia and the czech republic. the natural disasters in the three eu countries have caused loss of life and significant damage to the economies of the european regions, which will have a negative impact socially and economically. unfortunately, there is irreparable loss of life. but, again, in this context, the importance of a european-level commitment to ensure a rapid reaction force and to guarantee coordinated and prompt action by the intervention teams is clear. information and education campaigns on pre-disaster, disaster-related and post-disaster behaviour and preventive mind-set formation should be part of disaster management measures at member state level. i come from a country where over 900,000 romanians live in areas at high risk of flooding and which was among the states severely affected by the severe floods of 2010. as a european, as a romanian, i support the policy of solidarity in all areas. but especially when faced with calamity, solidarity is not an option but a necessity!
in writing. − the dock dues scheme approved on 5 july 2011 by the european parliament authorises france to adopt, for the four french overseas departments, a differentiated dock dues scheme for certain products manufactured in the octs by 1 july 2014. the anchorage fee is vital to support the outermost regions which are economically and socially disadvantaged by certain permanent factors such as small size and insularity, remoteness from large markets, deficient topography and climate or dependence on a small number of marketed products. the aim of the dock levy is to stabilise the economies of the outermost regions, helping to maintain jobs in regimes where unemployment is close to 30% and, by implication, supporting local production. moreover, the revenue from the application of this dockage tax, which represents between 37 and 48% of the budget of the local authorities of the overseas departments, is intended to be and must be a major support for investment policies on local development. the european parliament therefore supports the necessary perpetuation from 2014 of the exemptions or reductions of the duties in the context of the dock dues granted to french sacs.
in writing. − numerous recent disasters have shown that early warning and alerting citizens to emergencies and major disasters is necessary to reduce damage and loss of life. the vast majority of europeans, however, are still unaware of the existence of the emergency number 112, although it was created in 1991 to allow any citizen to access emergency services such as firefighters, police and ambulances, and is the only emergency number that can be dialed in all eu member states. i therefore encourage member states to step up their joint efforts to inform the public about the existence and use of the 112 number, in particular by developing a specific and comprehensive communication strategy that addresses citizens' concerns and questions about the functioning of the system. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − it is 20 years since the launch of the famous single european emergency number 112, an initiative whose existence has saved perhaps millions of lives. although it has proved its usefulness, 112 has a few more steps to go before it is truly effective. however good an idea is, it must be adapted to the social context in which it evolves and updated according to the real needs of the citizens it serves. also, for an idea to work, it needs to get the support it deserves. both statements apply to the single emergency number 112. i know countless people who, in times of need, have called this number. fortunately, in most of the situations i can remember, the support they received was the most obvious. the european parliament, like other stakeholders, has repeatedly stressed the need to raise awareness of the 112 number and the poor quality of services provided to citizens through this number. i join those who say that this service, like any good idea, needs to be supported to bring maximum benefits to those who put their hopes in it.
in writing. − i fully support this report, as it contains particularly important recommendations both in terms of universal service and the single european emergency number 112. the correct implementation of the 112 emergency number can save many lives. we made this point when we discussed the telecom package years ago. i think it is absolutely essential that european citizens are properly informed about the existence of this number, so that they know which number to call in case of emergency when they travel to another member state. moreover, i am pleased that this report urges member states to improve caller location as soon as possible within seconds of a call being made. this is of paramount importance, as the speed of the location determines the effectiveness of the emergency services' response. technically this is feasible. the member states and telecom operators must therefore be willing to do so. i believe that investment in next generation technologies is needed to improve the 112 number by creating new applications that allow data to be transferred to the emergency service so that it has as much information as possible in real time before intervention.
in writing. − according to a survey in february 2011, only 26% of eu citizens can spontaneously identify 112 as the number to call for emergency services, and 58% of eu citizens still believe that the public is not informed about the existence of this number. it is therefore necessary to improve access through new electronic communications technologies or broadband services, including for people with disabilities, the elderly and vulnerable groups. more efficient handling of emergency calls in foreign languages is also needed in the context of increased mobility of eu citizens.
in writing. − this european parliament motion for a resolution on the universal emergency service and the 112 emergency number is important because it aims to evaluate the 112 system with a view to improving it, which can help save more lives in emergency situations. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed both the need to educate the public about the importance and role of the 112 emergency number and the poor quality of the services provided to citizens through this service. this evaluation will therefore be able to present new methods of raising awareness among citizens and ways of improving the 112 service. the resolution also aims to facilitate the implementation of this 112 system in broadband (internet), thus facilitating the adaptation of citizens to current requirements.
in writing. − according to the eurobarometer survey published in february 2011, only 26% of eu citizens can spontaneously identify 112 as the number they call for emergency services in the eu. the survey also shows that 58% of eu citizens still believe that the population in their country is not adequately informed about the existence of the 112 emergency number. this report contributes to improving access to emergency services for people with disabilities and to raising awareness among travellers, provides for stricter obligations on caller location information, as well as accuracy and reliability criteria to ensure the same response and treatment as for calls to national emergency numbers, and no reference to technological possibilities. i voted for this report because it is necessary to give the number 112 the support it deserves in order to ensure the best possible benefits for the lives of citizens, otherwise it would lose its usefulness.
in writing. − i consider this report to be an excellent one because of the conciseness and quality of the solutions it proposes. the retail market is of particular importance to the daily lives of consumers and to jobs in the eu, which is why i believe that making it more efficient is a priority. the method of dialogue between all the actors in the supply chain suggested by the rapporteur to solve the current problems of the functioning of the market seems to me indeed the most appropriate and constructive. i support the idea of creating a european payments area in the true sense of the word by harmonising intra-european payments and therefore reducing the fees for these payments. i also believe that efforts to give consumers freedom of choice must be stepped up. we need to boost e-commerce, but also small, local shops that can meet the demand of certain consumers. last but not least, this report takes a rational approach to the problem of unfair trading practices and competition in the retail market. it is very true that sometimes the big players can abuse their market power, but i think we have to look at the bigger picture and not ignore the possibility that the big players are also victims of unfair practices.
in writing. − we should be glad that in this time of crisis the member states will recover this money, especially as some of them really need it. however, at the same time, the €4.54 billion comes partly from the commission's under-implementation of the 2010 budget (2,72 billion), and the rest from the commission's competition fines. if i may agree that money which has not been implemented must be returned to the member states, as written in the treaties; i regret that the money from fines is not reported to the next budget year which would benefit from this money. today we are voting on the letter of the treaty, but this point needs to be analysed and i believe that the fines on competition law should be eu own resources and should be reported on to the next budgetary years.
in writing. − there is a lot of talk about crossborder cooperation, about its benefits, but practice has shown us that when it comes to trade, we also need to take into account the protection of european consumers. all the more so as there are sellers or suppliers who abuse the law to the detriment of honest traders. at the moment, there is not enough information on the functioning of regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for enforcing consumer protection laws. however, until new information is received on the functioning of the system, i would like to make a few remarks in support of the presence on the political agenda of ensuring that consumers' interests are respected across borders. today, each country sets its own priorities all the more so since there is no common set of priorities to refer to. i believe that in order to win and maintain the confidence of european consumers, it is necessary for the commission to create these references. having laws to protect consumers, which they know and can report to in case of misconduct is essential. consumer confidence is a hard-earned asset that is easily lost in times of crisis.
in writing. - the regulation of these types of transactions, given the risk of non-payment situations, required their clearing by authorised clearing houses, as a necessary measure to prevent chain reactions in these markets. however, non-financial counterparties below a certain threshold, if not systemically important, should not be covered by the regulation given their non-speculative nature. i know this exception has triggered a harsh reaction from the us treasury secretary, but i believe the exception is justified given the purpose of these exceptional transactions: hedging. i hope that parliament will approve the report as voted in the committees, including the possibility of mutual offsetting of financial counterparties with non-financial counterparties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the supervisory framework needs to be strengthened to reduce the risk of financial crises in the future and to prevent their severity. as a result, a thorough reform of the union financial sector supervisory structure is required, including the establishment of a european system of financial supervisors comprising three european supervisory authorities, one for the banking sector, one for the insurance and occupational pensions sector and one for the securities and markets sector, and a european systemic risk board.
in writing. − the text adopted guarantees the protection of private investors against investment firms that are fraudulent and fail to meet their obligations in time, in particular by adding the possibility of claiming damages in the event of 'bad advice'. the new rules will halve the time allocated to funding national compensation schemes (5 years instead of 10) and will allow local authorities, non-governmental organisations as well as private individuals to submit claims for compensation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to amend directive 2001/18/ec as regards the possibility for member states to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos on their territory. the directive and regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 of the european parliament and of the council of 22 september 2003 on genetically modified food and feed establish a very rigorous framework which, if properly applied, allows for a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. the directive allows gmos to be authorised for placing on the market only if a specific environmental risk assessment has been carried out. annex ii, which sets out the principles applicable to environmental risk assessment, requires consideration of direct and indirect, immediate and delayed effects, as well as an analysis of cumulative long-term effects on flora and fauna, soil fertility, degradation of soil organic matter, the human or animal food chain, biological diversity, animal health and problems of antibiotic resistance.
in writing. − this proposal comes in the context of persistent opposition of the european public to the spread of gmos and their use in the agricultural sector, linked primarily to the serious non-application of directive 2001/18/ec: the studies envisaged are not carried out by the applicants, whether it is studies on long-term effects, preliminary studies on recipient environments or socioeconomic impact analysis. the eurobarometer on gmos shows that 61% of europeans consider 'gmo-based food to be unsatisfactory' and are against the idea of encouraging its promotion. in no country does a majority of respondents agree that growing gmos is good for the national economy. the current strict authorisation system, based on science, safety and consumer choice, will remain the same. the high level of protection of health and the environment, which is the aim of the community legislative framework, can be achieved only if the member states are able to have, in view of their agricultural methods, the particularities of their territory and its way of planning, all the necessary studies on the host environment and the conditions of the monitoring plans. measures taken by member states for the cultivation of gmos must be justified and must not entail additional costs for those practising organic or conventional farming.
in writing. − the new constitution does not explicitly provide for certain principles that hungary, by virtue of its international commitments, is obliged to respect and promote, such as the prohibition of the death penalty, the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and the principles relating to the suspension or restriction of fundamental rights by means of special legal regulations. at the same time, the new constitution did not explicitly guarantee that hungary would respect the territorial integrity of other countries, and the lack of this provision, together with the unclear wording in the preamble, in particular the parts concerning the obligations of the hungarian state towards hungarian minorities living outside hungary's borders, may create a legal basis for actions that neighbouring countries would consider as interference in internal affairs, which could create tensions in the region.
in writing. − the future of the european project and our competitiveness in an increasingly globalised world are closely linked to eu cohesion policy. cohesion means, first of all, unity, a close connection between the elements of a whole. this is why the focus of eu cohesion policy - a unique project in the world, as the report points out - must be on reducing disparities and taking special measures in the less-favoured regions of the member states. because only united and equal can we be strong in the same european project. the centrifugal forces of globalisation offer no chance to any single member state. that is why i believe that the know-how of the richer regions must be put to the service of the less-favoured regions, so that in the end european cohesion policy means first and foremost a europe united and strong in its diversity. the diversity of europe in the decades to come will not depend on the economic and social dimensions of a particular state or region, but on the national identity and cultural specificities of each european state, region, locality or citizen.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal to introduce a category of regions with gdp per capita between 75% and 90% of the eu average, in order to avoid unequal treatment for regions that are nevertheless in similar situations. but this must be accompanied by a substantial increase in funding for territorial cooperation, the so-called objective 3, in particular to support cross-border projects such as the trans-european transport and energy networks. they also want the european social fund to remain a component of cohesion policy and to allow more small-scale projects to be carried out at local level, but the commission needs to reduce the administrative difficulties that currently prevent small businesses from benefiting from this funding. however, all this must be accompanied by a new, single-tier inspection procedure, so that member states check the projects and the commission checks the inspection systems of the member states.
in writing. − cohesion policy is a particularly important tool for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. a sound and properly funded policy will generate long-term investment, added value, social inclusion and, at the same time, harmonious development throughout the european union. i consider that a positive aspect of this resolution is the substantial increase in funding for objective 3 - territorial cooperation, through which we will be able to support in particular crossborder projects for the trans-european transport and energy networks. other key elements of the report are simplifying control systems and holding member states accountable, reducing the administrative difficulties that prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from receiving funding, and keeping the european social fund (esf) as a component of cohesion policy.
in writing. − cohesion policy has been the main factor in balanced economic growth within the union. in the context of the changes brought about by the economic crisis and enlargement, cohesion policy is facing new challenges. today, we need an ambitious european policy that has the capacity to respond to the many current and future challenges, such as demographic change, adaptation to a knowledge-based economy or globalisation. the future of cohesion policy is crucial to the success of the europe 2020 strategy, and i therefore consider it essential to continue to maintain the three thematic objectives. the pieper report has succeeded in bringing to our attention relevant aspects of the future financial allocation. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important to improve future funding and increase its transparency after 2013. although there were some conflicting opinions that divided meps' options on the new category of regions, the final vote once again demonstrated that the union has the capacity to identify compromise solutions for its common future. today's vote confirms to me that the post-2013 cohesion policy depends to a large extent on how we manage to find the common solution that suits the 27 national interests, which are sometimes different.
in writing. − budget support is a means of boosting the european union's partner countries' embrace of development policies and sustainable reform processes, strengthening national institutions and systems of accountability, and facilitating economic growth and poverty reduction. this support from the european union contributes to improving the quality and effectiveness of development aid and the application of the principles of ownership and harmonisation, as through the political dialogue between donors and beneficiaries, contributions can be tailored to the priorities set by countries in their national poverty reduction strategies. budget support can also improve not only the accountability of third country governments but also coordination between donors, thanks to a demanding dialogue on budgetary issues. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that policy coherence is essential to delivering development policies with a strong impact.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the future of eu budget support to developing countries. budget support (bs) is the transfer of financial resources from an external financing agency to the national treasury of a partner country, following the fulfilment by that country of the agreed conditions for making a payment. the financial resources thus acquired form part of the overall resources of the partner country and are therefore used in accordance with the public financial management system of that country. finally, we are now seeing the establishment of the sd as the most effective way to achieve the goals of the paris and accra agendas. this approach is based on a strong leadership role of the government, the definition of the commitments of the two sides, the way the partnership works and mutual responsibilities. in addition, greater harmonisation of support procedures and payments among donors has been introduced.
in writing. − according to the lisbon treaty, poverty reduction and eradication is the main objective of eu development policy. i believe that development strategies must be designed together with the target governments, after consulting a wide range of representatives of civil society and local authorities and in close cooperation with international donors, and must be approved by national parliaments. civil society, local authorities and parliamentarians must also be involved at every stage, from implementation to monitoring and evaluation of results, to ensure a transparent process.
in writing. − upgrading existing networks (electricity and gas) to reach smart grids is normally required to meet eu energy targets. i would like to stress the environmental elements in this report: climate change. substantial investments are needed in energy infrastructure to achieve our goal: a low-carbon economy by 2050, risk management (operational, environmental, political, anthropogenic, terrorist attack), socioeconomic impact. i support the recommendation that member states provide information to citizens, civil society, economic operators and social partners in an appropriate manner on integrated energy networks, security of supply, integration of renewable energy sources to enable consumers to benefit from new technologies and smart energy use with a view to increasing energy efficiency. furthermore, it should be emphasised that there is a need to increase public participation in the decision-making process on the implementation of this new methodology in order to prioritise projects according to the needs of citizens.
in writing. − access to services of general interest is a fundamental right, one of the economic, social and cultural rights recognised in the universal declaration of human rights. these services, in particular access to childcare, care for the elderly and other dependants, play a key role in ensuring equal participation of women and men in the labour market, education and training. this report identifies ways to address the concerns of providers and users of social services of general interest and identifies policy and legislation that could be developed to ensure that social services of general interest, both economic and non-economic, can be allowed to play their natural role, while helping us to emerge from the crisis and contributing to the achievement of the social and economic strategy 2020. overall, social services of general interest contribute significantly to the increase in the number of jobs, economic activity and purchasing power in the economy.
in writing. − this european parliament motion for a resolution on the future of social services of general interest is important because, firstly, access to services of general interest is a fundamental right recognised in the universal declaration of human rights. eurofund (european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions) studies show that social services of general interest substantially improve the quality of life of eu citizens, ensure their full integration into society and are a fundamental element of the european social model and the way european societies are organised. the importance of this report is further underlined by the fact that it identifies new approaches to social services of general interest, based on the problems identified by providers and users, signalling the need for urgent solutions in the wake of the economic crisis and rising unemployment.
in writing. − in the light of the economic and unemployment crisis our citizens have a greater need than ever for access to high quality social services of general interest, while our economies and our society also needs the benefits which such services can deliver. high quality universal services such as health, education and childcare, and essential network services such as transport, energy and telecommunications are also essential for higher levels of labour market participation and for the development of a competitive, social market economy. the european commission and the member states have to support initiatives which help bring about a more social and green policy agenda by encouraging the european commission to publish a guide on social procurement. it is important to support the development of a european voluntary quality framework for ssgi which could be used as a basis for developing sector-specific quality frameworks to meet the needs of different types of social services (emergency, residential, childcare, disability, social housing, etc). the member states should encourage employment creation and the growth potential of the social, health and education services sector by offering migrants and eu citizens decent working conditions and access to comprehensive social protection systems.
in writing. - in the context of global economic contraction, social selfishness and an increasingly pronounced trend towards national protectionism, eu development policy can prove to be the signal of solidarity we all need. however, i believe that in the context of the increasingly frequent talk about the concept of inclusive growth, a clarification of the term is needed. we must also identify a series of clear mechanisms and directions to guarantee this type of development. i agree with the rapporteur that one of these directions can be found in the industrial potential of developing countries. because we must not be indifferent to the strategic areas to which funds are directed, i believe that in future there should be a strong emphasis on the social impact studies of the results generated by these programmes. perhaps, in some countries, agriculture will be shown to have a greater potential to eradicate poverty. as with other beneficiaries, the reality on the ground will show us that the solution lies in supporting the national industry.
in writing. − it is time for a broad debate at eu level on the future of eu development policy. it is important that the eu defines its vision, ambitions, objectives and appropriate instruments before deciding on the position of development aid in the future multiannual financial framework. better coordination, increasing the impact of aid without reducing its volume, stronger private sector involvement and stimulating inclusive growth and poverty reduction are needed. special attention is also needed to the root causes of food insecurity in developing countries, the fundamental issue in the context of the global recession and food crisis. this is also a consequence of the reduction in oda expenditure on agriculture from 17% in 1980 to 5% today, and the neglect of this sector by donors for many years.
the commission's and parliament's positions are not identical, but i believe they are close enough to form a solid basis for negotiations with the council. we must take the best of both proposals, and we must take parliament's budget increase first. the commission proposal confirms the importance of european policies for agriculture and cohesion. the abandonment of the historical criteria and the introduction of a convergence mechanism for direct payments is a correct proposal. i think, however, that the pace should be steeper, in the sense that member states should recover at the end of the period two thirds, rather than one third, of the difference between 90% of the european average and the situation at the reference point. the idea of the cohesion policy contract should be implemented in other european policies to generate sustained efforts by member states to spend the funds allocated. the proposal to increase the co-financing rate for member states in financial assistance can contribute to achieving financial stability. the current ten policy has proven its european added value and i think we need to find ways to increase the funds allocated. the introduction of the own resources system must be supported. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. today i have approved the return to the member states of eur 4.5 billion. i think it would have been much more efficient to keep them in the union budget and use them in the 2011 budget. setting up extraction lines is very good. i think it is equally good that parliament is proposing greater flexibility within and between budget chapters.
in writing. the agreement reached is an improvement, but i believe it is an important step towards better consumer information on food. there are many positive points. among these i would mention the mandatory nutrition declaration which contains information on nutritional value, amounts of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, proteins, carbohydrates and salt. another example is the highlighting of allergenic substances on the product label, which increases the visibility of these substances on the label and is a real help for consumers. i believe that the introduction of stricter and more robust rules on product labelling will give consumers the opportunity to buy food with a clear conscience. as food can have an impact on health, labelling is all the more important. i think a traffic light system could have been a little bit more useful for consumers because it would have been clearer, given that the labels already contain a fairly significant amount of information. i regret that such a solution was not possible. last but not least, i believe that the new regulation will bring added legal certainty, which will help the food industry, and in particular smes.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i know that this report has been the subject of much heated debate, but what is worth mentioning and remembering is that the adoption of this report can bring about a significant improvement in the situation we are in now. to those who protest that this is not the case, i say simply that as long as we aim to ensure food safety and to provide consumers with ample and accurate information about food, while at the same time taking into account the fears of food producers, we cannot fail. of course, there is still much to be done in this area, in particular to simplify bureaucratic red tape and facilitate the rapid evaluation of relevant information at the consumer level, but rome was not built in a day either. that's why i think it's appropriate to support the compromise package on the vote in the plenary tomorrow. thank you, sir.
first of all, i would like to point out that this report brings important clarifications as regards the legislation and the way in which the regulations in the current ets regime are applied, and as such, even from this point of view alone, i consider it to be an important step forward in this area. but it doesn't stop there, and that's a good thing. we need clear provisions that can be unanimously accepted and applied in order to reduce the incidence of tse cases at european level and to hope that one day this scourge will be eradicated. it is clear that the top priority is animal health and consumer safety, principles which we cannot afford to ignore and which this report supports, providing a suitable framework for the emergence of future measures.
in writing. the use of body scanners should be allowed in the eu only if there is conclusive evidence that the risk to human health is minimal. their use must also be without prejudice to the right to privacy. there is evidence that at the current state of technology, body scanners may not meet all the requirements for health safety. these scans, especially those using ionizing radiation, can seriously affect the human body even with low levels of radiation because of their cumulative effect. this is all the more dangerous for frequent airline passengers who must endure hundreds of scanner exposures each year, plus in-flight solar radiation that is several hundred times greater than at ground level. in addition, certain categories of people, such as pregnant women, children, and the elderly, may be even more sensitive to radiation exposure. i therefore believe that the decision on the use of body scanners in eu countries must be made with great caution in order to protect the fundamental rights and health of european citizens.
in writing. the report we are voting on is an important step towards ensuring aviation safety. the danger of recent terrorist attacks has brought to the fore the need to improve aviation safety standards. in 2008, parliament rejected the use of security scanners because they did not meet a number of requirements, such as respect for fundamental rights, protection of the dignity, privacy and health of individuals. meanwhile, technology has evolved and allowed the development of scanners that provide the necessary safety without endangering the health and privacy of individuals. we considered it very important that the report should state the need to inform passengers about the new types of scans and the process they will undergo during the scans in order to avoid any confusion. it was also essential to clarify that the scanners do not show the human body but standard images which only indicate whether the passenger is carrying dangerous objects or not. last but not least, i wanted to mention the need to increase the number of checkpoints and security staff, in order to avoid as much as possible the increase in the time allocated to security checks. as regards the issue of the ban on liquids, aerosols and gels, i ask the commission to take the necessary measures to lift the restriction by 2013 and to introduce mandatory scanning of these products.
i would also like to congratulate mrs rodi kratsa on this report which she has produced and which is a first step in making this problem more visible. the outcome of these debates can provide long-term solutions. this report highlights a phenomenon that is having a significant impact on the european business environment. promoting women to management positions in companies is difficult and discriminatory. there is a marked difference between the number of women who graduate from college and those who enter companies in a leadership position. unfortunately, despite adapted social and economic policies, the european union still faces this problem. theoretically, equality in the labour market is supported in absolutely all areas. in practice, however, the figures show otherwise. the labour potential of women is, in this case, under-exploited and undervalued. i would point out that various studies have shown the positive impact of the work of women managers on the competitiveness rate of companies. even so, discrimination and prejudice hinder their advancement in their careers. another regrettable aspect is the persistence of the gender pay gap in management positions. i welcome the setting of target percentages for increasing women's participation in business management by 2015 and 2020 respectively. this allows a concrete assessment of the progress of the implementation of these measures. finally, i believe it is the responsibility of the european institutions to initiate a reform in this respect, involving all decision-makers. at the same time, joint action by national authorities, trade unions and employers is needed to eliminate this type of hidden discrimination.
i would like to congratulate you on the strong message you have conveyed today to the whole of the european union, to congratulate you on your pro-european attitude, because today we need more europe than ever, we need to lift all restrictions on the internal market, we need solidarity, and i am referring to schengen, i know and understand your position on schengen, but not only the restrictions imposed on the danish borders, but also the postponement of romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area is a barrier, and i would like you to make it clear what your position is on romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. i am counting heavily on your capacity for dialogue, on the positive energy you are giving off, and i am confident that you will send a clear message to the council that romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area is not in the interests of the two countries, but of the whole european union. good luck with that.
in writing. - mr prime minister. i congratulate you on your achievements at home despite the economic crisis, but also on the pragmatic, optimistic speech you have just delivered. he mentioned the past, which is the only thing that can make you think about the future. poland has - as in the current economic crisis - shown throughout history how to manage difficult situations. as a transylvanian hungarian, i would like to highlight the role of our common ruler, istván báthory in stabilizing the region. i was pleased to read that among the polish priorities, poland wants to pursue the enlargement process in an 'open european spirit'; wants to help with the democratic transition in relation to the north african states; stresses the need to accelerate economic growth; considers it important to ensure the application of fundamental rights and the protection of minorities and to allow the free movement of people. i am convinced that europe must show this open face, not a closed, rejecting europe, looking out from behind the schengen borders in fear. as a minority, you should not forget the poles in lithuania, but also the other european minorities. good luck to poland in achieving the tasks of the presidency.
mr president, i would like to join the line of those welcoming this report, especially its practical recommendations. with this report, our parliament shows vision and provides concrete policy tools to address challenges to come. it provides a focus for the eu 2020 strategy by addressing the new job creation objectives. this is just one of the many important contributions of the epp group to this report. it calls for a new generation of eu funding programmes to support innovative and job-creating smes. education and youth are core elements of the eu 2020 strategy. they will remain a foundation of our efforts to promote innovation, growth and sustainability. without the implementation of the educational policy tools, the eu 2020 strategy will fail. this report paves the way for a new eu internship programme involving both the private sector and smes, and proposes the introduction of a european innovation scholarship, which should contribute to the fostering of the knowledge and skills of those employed in innovative sectors. i am confident that this house will support the crisis report with a large majority. therefore, i urge the european commission and the member states to consider the rapid implementation of the specific programmes in the field of smes and education strategy.
in writing. recently, a third member state was forced to ask for help from the european union, unable to obtain funding. in the current context of the sovereign debt crisis and the fragility of the european economy, we need greater integration at political and economic level. in this respect, i welcome the report on the financial, economic and social crisis, which stresses the importance of relaunching the european project. to break the deadlock, the european union needs to make long-term investments in key areas such as education, research, and road and information infrastructure. they would both increase competitiveness and counter job losses. we need a single taxation policy at european level to encourage these investments. the creation of bonds for the joint issuance of part of the european public debt would also automatically lower the cost of financing in the european union.
the report of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis underlines that both agricultural and cohesion policies should play a key role in the europe 2020 strategy. the reform of the common agricultural policy must be designed to meet global challenges and cohesion policy must be designed with clear objectives to promote competitiveness. in most of the new member states, farmers rely on the current system of the cap and expect cohesion policy to focus on basic infrastructure investments, where we are far behind the old member states. the eu 2020 strategy must serve the development of the eu as a whole, which is unthinkable without the development of the lagging regions, the preservation of the original objectives of the agricultural policy and the cohesion policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on a comprehensive approach to the protection of personal data in the european union. the eu needs to equip itself, after an in-depth impact assessment, with a comprehensive, coherent, modern and high-level framework capable of effectively protecting the fundamental rights of individuals, in particular the right to privacy, with regard to the processing of personal data, in order to be able to meet the many challenges posed by globalisation, technological development, the intensification of online activities and the fight against terrorism. such a data protection framework can increase legal certainty, minimise administrative burden, ensure a level playing field for all economic operators, stimulate the digital single market and boost confidence in the behaviour of data controllers and law enforcement authorities.
in writing. − this european parliament motion for a resolution on a comprehensive approach to the protection of personal data in the european union is important because data protection in the eu is guaranteed as a fundamental human right by article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. a global approach to data protection is also required by technological developments, which have created new threats to the protection of personal data and led to a large increase in the use of information technology for normal, everyday purposes. full harmonisation at the highest level is therefore required to guarantee legal certainty and a uniformly high level of protection of persons in all situations. last but not least, this motion for a resolution provides further clarification of the rules on applicable law in order to provide the same degree of protection for individuals regardless of the geographical location of the data controller, including in the case of the application of data protection law by authorities or in court.
in writing. − the introduction of new rules for consumer information on food marketed in the community is primarily aimed at enabling consumers to make healthier and more informed choices when buying food. it is not enough, however, for the european citizen to be able to choose freely between the various products. it is essential that he make a conscious choice based on the health benefits or harms that a food product may have. i therefore believe that the fight in the future must be directed towards informing european citizens of the importance which consulting all the information elements on food labels can have in maintaining and guaranteeing a healthy lifestyle. at the same time, the new regulations will also make life easier for food producers by providing legal certainty, less red tape and much improved legislation.
in writing. − consumers will be able to make more informed and healthier choices when buying food as a result of the implementation of new food labelling rules. at a time when food-borne illnesses are one of the leading causes of death, it is important to shop with information and to know the exact amounts of fats, fatty acids, carbohydrates, carbohydrates, proteins, and salt. in addition, consumers will know exactly where certain foods come from, which are not required to be specified at present. this is important, since product labels can often be misleading. the new food labelling rules will help educate the european consumer, who, while spending more time on the shelves, will learn what is healthy and what is not and should only be eaten occasionally. in time, there will likely be a discouragement of those manufacturers of profoundly unhealthy products whose sales could be reduced by detailed ingredient listings. it is true that it will be at least five years before the european market is uniform and the new rules are implemented. but it is never too late.
in writing. − while the original objectives and main components of the current labelling legislation are still valid, it needs to be streamlined to ensure that it is easier for stakeholders to comply with and to benefit from greater clarity to take account of new developments in food information. this regulation will serve both the interests of the internal market by simplifying legislation, ensuring legal certainty and reducing red tape, and the interests of citizens by imposing mandatory labelling of foodstuffs in a clear, legible and understandable manner.
in writing. − the text voted by parliament is a very good compromise, as it is the consumers who will benefit from choosing healthier food. in the future, consumers will be able to identify details such as energy value, amounts of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, carbohydrates, proteins and salt on food packaging much more quickly. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a fire, and that the council adopt a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a fire.
in writing. − under the new labelling rules, the energy value, amounts of lipids, saturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, carbohydrates, proteins and salt will have to be clearly visible on food packaging. allergens will have to be highlighted in the list of ingredients. country of origin will become mandatory for fresh meat from pigs, sheep, goats and poultry, and not only for beef as was the case until now. consumers will be informed about the specific source of origin of vegetable oils used in various products, such as palm oil. in addition, there will be strict rules to prevent consumers from being misled by the way food is packaged and rules for the labelling of 'counterfeit foods' such as cheese or ham. the compromise reached between the ep and the council will ensure better legibility of labels, thus allowing consumers to find the information they need more easily when shopping, thus allowing them to make informed and healthier choices when purchasing food. the new rules will modernise, simplify and clarify food labelling across the eu. the new law will also reduce red tape for producers and food business operators and strengthen the single market.
in writing. − road safety in the european union will only benefit from the implementation of the directive institutionalizing the exchange of vehicle registration information between member states. it will allow serious road accidents to be traced throughout the union and will ensure equality before the law for european citizens, regardless of the member state in which they live. the union will have safer roads when the directive is implemented. it's a very important first step towards increased road safety and, considering that it's being done after three years of negotiations, it's all the more important. we are moving towards the ideal situation where no perpetrator of a crime or misdemeanour will ever get away with it because he does not live in the state where he committed the crime. the authorities of the country where the offence was committed will then send the offender a registered letter informing him of the type of offence committed and the applicable sanction, possible remedies and legal consequences. the fine and the conditions of its application shall be determined in accordance with the rules of the state in which the offence was committed. i hope that the directive will be adopted by the council of ministers soon and that it will enter into force on the date set.
in writing. − the commission has to deliver a 2012 work programme primarily oriented towards growth, job creation, a rise in living standards, mobility, guaranteeing a good level of security and social protection for citizens, while promoting europe’s competitiveness and capacity as a global actor. the main priority of the 2012 programme and the years after should be the exit process out of the crisis, for the benefit of our citizens, with a fair share of responsibility to be borne by those who caused or amplified it. it is necessary to develop and implement a strategy to halve child poverty by 2020, to mainstream individual children’s rights in all eu policies and to promote measures to monitor and evaluate steps undertaken to end child poverty at national level. moreover, the revision of the directive on maternity leave must be adopted as a matter of urgency. the commission should develop specific policies to ensure the transition towards a green and smart growth, especially as regards worker re-skilling for green jobs and assistance for greening european industry in the context of global markets, as well as encouraging the private sector to invest in low-emissions technologies that are favourable to innovation and job creation.
in writing. − in the european union, the number of cases of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tses) has decreased dramatically in recent years. it is important evidence that the community measures to eradicate the std have worked. however, this downward trend should not lead to less stringent supervision and control measures in the future. the primary objective of any measures in this area must continue to be to ensure the highest level of consumer protection and food safety. i therefore encourage member states to continue to exercise vigilance and to closely monitor the evolution of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies in the event of a recurrence in animals or humans.
in writing. − the number of positive bse cases in the eu fell from 2 167 cases in 2001 to 67 cases in 2009. therefore, the tse legislation may be amended in the future, while ensuring and maintaining a high level of animal and public health standards in the european union. these changes could include measures related to the disposal of specified risk material (srs), the revision of the provisions on the total ban on animal meal, the eradication of scrapie, the slaughter of cohorts and the monitoring of the evolution/involution of the ets by correlating member states' reports. i call on the commission and the member states to take measures to ensure that the requirements of the legislation in force in this area are respected and that the possibility of illegal diversion in the feed chain is excluded. i call on the commission and the member states to continue to be vigilant and to closely monitor the evolution of tse in the event of a recurrence of tse/bse. i would stress that consumer protection, animal health and the eradication of tses must always be the overriding objectives and have priority importance when considering changes to the current rules.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr de grandes pascual because i believe it deals with a subject of great importance in the context of the international fight against terrorism. i consider that the measure prohibiting the access of liquids on board aircraft was justified at the time it was adopted. technology did not yet allow for rapid scanning, and prevention was the most effective way to reduce the risk of an attack. with a view to lifting this restriction in 2013, cooperation between the european and national institutions needs to be stepped up. therefore, there is a need to review the control mechanisms at airports to ensure the same level of safety as at present. at the same time, it is important that passenger rights are respected, regardless of the nature of the new aviation security measures. the proportionality of the actions taken by states towards their citizens must therefore remain a priority in all circumstances.
in writing. − the european parliament has given an important signal by voting on the report on airport body scanners. security is very important but you cannot pay any price for it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the right to adopt a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. body scanners are currently not included in the list of control methods and technologies that have the capability to detect hidden objects in clothing - a list established in the eu aviation security legal framework. the european commission is to propose a set of rules that will add body scanners to the list of authorised eu-wide search methods. but this does not mean that parliament will not be able to reject the commission's proposal. the fact that they could affect the health of passengers is an important detail that needs to be resolved before approving one or the other of these technologies.
in writing. − the whole analysis leads to the conclusion that promoting greater representation of women must in future be an unconditional necessity for enterprises. indeed, they must implement arrangements that encourage women to aspire to management positions, in particular by increasing career opportunities, prospects within the company. it is essential that enterprises set targets for increased female participation, in parallel with the recruitment of women to top positions in the enterprise hierarchy, so as to promote equality and diversity. increased representation of women in decision-making positions would also ensure that discrimination against employees is tackled, as statistics show that 53% of women worldwide are in a vulnerable position in the workplace.
in writing. − an equal participation of women and men in decision-making is a democratic and economic necessity and all the more important in the current economic situation, where all talent needs to be mobilised. although many structural barriers have been removed through legislation in order to promote gender equality in corporate management, men continue to predominate in leadership positions. today, only one out of 10 board members of the largest companies listed on the national stock exchanges of eu member states is a woman, and progress has been slow in recent years. the disparity is widest at the very top, where only 3% of such companies have a woman directing the highest decision-making body. member states and the commission should consider introducing new policies enabling more women to become involved in managing companies, in particular by: initiating a dialogue with the management of large companies about ways of increasing female representation; supporting initiatives to assess male-female equality on recruitment committees and in other areas, e.g. with regard to wage differentials and career patterns and developing women’s individual capabilities in-house, by means of specific further training courses and other forms of professional support, in order to prepare them effectively for management duties.
in writing. − although signs suggest that the wave of negative effects generated by the economic and financial crisis has passed, social reality and the global macroeconomic landscape show that a return to normalcy is a difficult process. in the context of rising sovereign debts and the inability of some states to rebalance their public spending, the concept of democracy on credit or government on borrowing, which characterises some eu member states, is increasingly being discussed. the critical moment for these member states has not passed, and that is why i agree with the rapporteur that the competent institutions must monitor present or future systemic risks very closely. to take firm steps to get out of the grey area of the effects of the crisis, we need an intra-european balance. the high potential that the coordination of fiscal policies can have in rebalancing european budgets is, in my view, one of the solutions that must be considered in the medium and long term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the financial, economic and social crisis, to support the recommendations on the measures and initiatives to be taken to create mechanisms and develop coordinated policies to exit the member states' public debt crisis and prevent its recurrence by addressing its underlying causes, while encouraging strong and sustainable growth and employment. i believe that more efforts are needed to develop a viable crisis management system at eu level and to define a political strategy for the future, including reform of european economic governance, fiscal policy, especially financial regulation and supervision.
in writing. - the crisis is far from over and we can expect the economic situation to worsen at any time, both in europe and globally. the current situation of young people in the european union, where the unemployment rate is 21%, and in some member states even exceeds the 40% threshold, is worrying and makes them the main category affected by the economic crisis. i believe that the main efforts to create jobs must focus on youth employment. to do this, we need to integrate the needs of young people into community employment strategies, develop programmes to equip young people with the skills needed in the real economy, promote their opportunities to specialise or work in another member state and support the development of entrepreneurship among young people through specific vocational training, access to european funds and business advice.
i would like to begin by congratulating the high representative on her involvement in resolving the various situations caused by the wave of freedom that has been blowing across the southern shore of the mediterranean for more than half a year. i would like, on the other hand, to refer to the broader context of today's discussion - the situation in the arab world and north africa - to underline the need to clearly distinguish between the different processes of change. sure, in syria, yemen and bahrain, with all the necessary nuances, violence has been the main response to the demands for change and, at the limit, democratization expressed by the population. i hope, as i think we all hope, that the authorities in these countries will understand that there is no way out, except through a genuine transition process, to democracy. violence is not a winning strategy. in this context, i would also like to highlight the example of morocco, which is very significant in this respect, proving that a peaceful transition to democracy is possible. and in this respect, i welcome - as did my colleague millán mon - the result of last friday's referendum, hoping that a vast programme of reforms will be put into effect, and that on the other hand moroccan parties will play a greater role in the modernisation of the country. finally, i would like to mention the situation in algeria, where the authorities have embarked on a process of constitutional reform, and to stress that the risk of violence will not be avoided unless this process is inclusive. finally, let me say a word about the proposal that mr rinaldi made earlier, about the request to the commission to create a european erasmus: there is a written statement to that effect, and unfortunately we have very few ... (the speaker was interrupted by the president).
mr president, i want to congratulate the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the work that has been done during this period of very complex events in the arab world and north africa. i also want today to raise concerns about the repression of children in syria, which reached a new level of horror with the release at the end of may of a video showing the body of hamza al-khatib. hamza was only 13 years old. he was arrested among other protestors in saida on 29 april 2011. a month later, his body was returned to his family, and it was obvious that the boy had been through severe torture during his detention. it was reported that he had injuries and burns consistent with the use of electric-shock devices. his eyes were swollen and black. he had been shot through both arms. his neck was broken. he had suffered genital mutilation. the case of hamza is not isolated. alarming reports, testimonies and footage reveal that a significant number of children in syria are being arrested, detained and subjected to various forms of torture and degrading treatment. we ask – through this resolution here today – for the urgent release of all the children arrested and detained in syria, and we must also give urgent consideration to ways of supporting these children and their families in the near future.
i would also like to welcome the intervention of the high representative in the context of the intensification of the repression in syria. president assad's speech did not guarantee an open and engaged dialogue with representatives of civil society in the country. as a result of the arab spring, the population is demanding concrete reforms and the building of a genuine democracy, but so far the authorities have not been responsive to these calls. censorship of anti-government demonstrations and abusive arrests continue to be reported. the right to free speech is monopolized by those loyal to the regime. a national strategy is needed to get syria out of the political crisis it is in. the involvement of citizens in this process is essential for a viable long-term solution. as for yemen, the people have been calling for days for regime change and the establishment of a genuine democracy. repeated calls have been made to waive the transition period. the intervention of saudi arabia as a mediator is welcome, as it ensures a regional solution to the instability. as an international leader in the field of human rights, the eu has a duty to help protect young or emerging democracies, such as those in syria and yemen.
madam president, ‘europe has never been so prosperous, so secure nor so free’ is the opening phrase of the european security strategy of 2003. that is only eight, not 50, years ago. we were wrong to ignore the fact that stabilising our neighbourhood – something on which that happy condition depended – is a relentless task in need of constant monitoring. from that standpoint, it has to be said that we failed. despite our extensive set of programmes and policies undertaken over years, the region, rather than being stabilised, exploded, because we committed two strategic mistakes. we approached the entire effort mainly bureaucratically and we talked only to the people in power, avoiding deeper probing into those societies. then, how did we react when all was suddenly in flames? with a lot of effort and some luck – the new reality coinciding with our neighbourhood policy review – we managed to put in extra money, directed more effectively towards the real needs of these societies in profound transformation, while establishing contact with the emerging leaderships there. however, let us not fool ourselves: we are in for a huge, long-term effort of supporting state-building, which requires a strategic rather than a bureaucratic approach, and the end of which, we hope, will be a more balanced and intimate relationship with these regions, without our customary arrogance of appearing to know best what others really need.
the failure of nato operations in libya and the european union's inability to bring about an end to the bloody reprisals in syria and bahrain and to stop the situation in yemen from degenerating into civil conflict demonstrate the limited scope for action and influence of the european union and nato in a region shaken by conflicts with major implications for europe. i believe that a un resolution is needed on the rapidly worsening situation in syria and that european sanctions against the assad regime, which is itself at war with its own people, should be tightened. i believe that without a more effective european engagement in the region, we risk destroying the credibility of nato and the european union, against the backdrop of the deteriorating situation of civilians, both in syria and yemen, and in libya, where human lives are lost every day and civilians are not protected from attacks by the gaddafi regime.
written. – after months of intervention and non-action, wishful thinking and short-sightedness, strategic confusion and tactical opportunism, an assessment of the spring 2011 developments in the arab world and north africa shows the following: 1. the events are a replica of the geostrategic quake which took place in eastern and central europe in 1989; 2. notwithstanding the specificity of each country concerned, the general refusal of the people to accept authority (in whatever form) any longer constitutes the common triggering factor; 3. similarly to 1989, the transformation was not prepared or initiated by the euro-atlantic democracies; 4. the euro-atlantic players are trying, again as with 1989, to become protagonists by exporting their democratic model post-factum; 5. as usual, the euro-atlantic players, desirous to externalise their internal crises or to fulfil their national geopolitical ambitions, apply multiple standards, thus undermining the coherence of any future regional policy; 6. external military intervention can only undermine the equilibrium and complicate the situation. against this background, one can understand why, after unwisely trying to behave like an international cop, the eu, too divided to be strong and too nervous to be prudent, has no perspective; but one can only hope that things will eventually end well. unfortunately, hope is not a policy!
i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mrs de keyser, on this report, which is very much needed in the present context. i hope that the proposals put forward in this report will be put into practice. it would indeed be a great step forward if we could make the issue of social justice and the fight against inequalities central objectives of the european union's foreign policy. as mrs ashton and mrs de keyser have shown, the revolutions in the arab world show, once again, that poverty goes hand in hand with the restriction of freedoms. just as a society, the more prosperous it is economically, the more it offers its citizens extended rights and a democratic life. the violation of fundamental rights - the right to work, education and health, the unequal distribution of income, the marginalization of women, the deepening of poverty and inequality are some of the causes of the changes that have been taking place in the world, in north africa in recent times. but these states must be aware that just liberating themselves from the tyranny of dictatorship is not enough. as someone who comes from a country that, two decades ago, was still living under a dictatorship, i would like to say that a democracy without social justice is never complete. and dictatorial tendencies, abuses, intimidation are still possible, especially in poor societies, because, as i said, poverty and inequality seriously undermine the march toward democracy. that is why i think we should put more emphasis on respecting not only the political but also the socioeconomic rights of citizens. i hope, commissioner, that the new directorate for democracy and human rights in the external action service will take this aspect of the democratization process into account.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs de keyser. the existence of a democratic regime is the foundation of relations between the eu and third countries as a common value. the report discussed today promotes the strengthening of this element in future agreements negotiated on the basis of the lisbon treaty. i would remind you that the eu is an international leader in the defence of human rights and that respect for conditionality leads to the spread of these principles. to this end, i support the clearer wording of the democracy clause in the text of trade agreements with third countries. i also believe that a mechanism should be introduced to monitor the correct implementation of these provisions. eu budget support must have the same objective: the development of civil society at local level. only a democracy built from within the state is viable. this can ensure long-term, robust and effective cooperation with the union.
the high representative's declaration completes the launch of the reform of the european neighbourhood policy in its eastern dimension. resolving frozen conflicts such as transnistria or nagorno-karabakh is one of the priorities of the new policy to ensure a zone of stability on the eu's borders. despite the 1994 ceasefire agreement, tensions are rising between the warring parties. the negotiations with the support of the minsk group have reached a critical point. the recent summit in kazan also did not bring any detente to relations between azerbaijan and armenia. on the contrary, the reaction to these negotiations has been an acceleration of armament in the region and a radicalization of political discourse. i support a mutually acceptable solution within the minsk group. i believe that a resumption of hostilities seriously threatens regional stability as well as european energy security.
in writing. one of the oldest conflicts in the former soviet union is about to reopen after the collapse of talks late last month, followed by declarations of war that have revived memories of the war that left over 30 000 dead and hundreds of thousands of refugees between 1988 and 1994. it is regrettable that it has again reached the stage of threatening force to resolve this frozen conflict. the aimless dialogue in kazan between presidents aliyev and sargsyan demonstrates the lack of will of the armenian and azerbaijani authorities to find another way out of the conflict and the inability of russia to be an effective mediator. i believe that the eu's mediation role is the only solution to avoid a new war, which in the current context would seriously destabilise a major strategic region where the interests of russia, turkey and iran intersect. the first step must be a stern warning that the future status of nagorno-karabakh cannot be the result of the use of force, but of the negotiations of the parties involved. the redefinition of the format on which the osce minsk group of mediators has tried to operate can help to unblock the dialogue.
madam president, i would like to thank the high representative for her detailed statement. the russian decision to block the registration of a credible political party prior to the elections is not an aberration, it is yet another example of russia’s refusal to play by the rules while claiming to be a genuinely democratic post-soviet entity. but politically motivated killings, kidnappings and jailings, sanctioned by a corrupt justice system or ignored by the judicial authorities, are a common feature of the russian democracy. indeed one can say that the russian authorities perfected democracy to the point where opposition is not necessary any more and the voters are no longer essential. but if russia is not willing to be honest with its own people we should not expect honesty in russia’s relations with the eu. it might take one to kozachok, but it surely takes two to tango. so i call on you and the commission to make any further negotiations with russia conditional on the fair preparation and conduct of the elections in december. human rights and democracy should be at the centre of our relationship with russia, and if we are ready to reset our relations with russia then russia should reset its own relations with democracy.
madam president, i thank my colleague for his very interesting question. i agree that you need to know the internal realities of russia. the exact answer is that i spent altogether around two months in russia at different times. i hope this will satisfy him.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, honourable members, thank you again. i found that a very interesting and stimulating debate. as we think about how to address some of the areas of concern that honourable members have quite rightly raised, i just want to make three very straightforward points. first of all we have to continue to articulate our expectations to russia as far as free and fair elections are concerned, and we will recall the international commitments that russia has taken in this regard. i think it is very important as we move towards the elections that we continue to send that strong message: that we want to see these elections be fair and free; that we want to see the international commitments fully followed. secondly, we want as well to offer our election observation. i said earlier that consultations between russia and osce/odihr are ongoing; they seem keen to cooperate; i hope that will happen and that this will also help in the light of some of the comments that honourable members have made about the need to look at the long-term nature of observation. thirdly we also need, and again members made this clear, to make sure that at the level of the modernisation partnership we are working closely to help support that process. we currently have 16 bilateral partnerships, and these look at issues like foreign investment, know-how, technology as well as the rule of law of modern democratic institutions and civil society involvement. because i think it is also clear from what honourable members have said that we want to send a very clear message to the people of russia that we are a supportive friend, that we want to see progress, we want to see modernisation and we want also to be source of inspiration when it comes to the democratic values we hold and our absolute passion for human rights.
in writing. i welcome the high representative's statement at such an important moment for any democracy in the world. i believe that a genuine eu-russia partnership must be based not only on common interests but also on shared principles and values. respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms is necessarily one of them. it is essential that russia live up to expectations of democratic standards in the preparation and conduct of the elections in december 2011. political pluralism is a defining characteristic of modern societies. by organising free and fair elections, a diversity of opinions, views and options is ensured. in this way, the russian authorities can make a significant contribution not only to strengthening the democratic character of the state but also to providing a viable model for neighbouring countries.
in writing. russia is one of our main partners. it is also a member state of the council of europe and the osce. we therefore give it special attention in the discussions in the european parliament. five months ago, we passed a resolution expressing doubts about the rule of law in russia. last month, in paragraph 12 of the resolution on the eu-russia summit, i stressed the need for free and fair elections, by implementing the standards set by the council of europe and the osce. we are forced to return to this subject, in the context of the fact that the parnas party has been denied the right to participate in the next parliamentary elections. it's an unfortunate decision. some of the procedures for the registration of political parties and lists of candidates used in russia have been found to be unjustified. they have become an obstacle to free and fair elections. it is essential for the credibility of the december elections that the russian authorities allow the osce/council of europe to conduct long-term election observation missions. in this way, the international community will be able to see whether there is progress in russia's democratization or whether it is a sham democracy.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, over the last few months the european union has been confronted with several challenges. as if the economic crisis and the efforts to overcome it were not enough, some member states have added another sensitive point to the agenda. instead of welcoming the switch to democratic regimes in some countries in northern africa, and instead of putting more energy and imagination into assisting the peoples there, a couple of governments – ironically, eu founder-members – afraid that 25 000 people entering the eu would affect their stability, considered that the best way to protect their own borders would be to close them. they had the idea that a new mechanism, profoundly affecting the schengen area and free movement, should be allowed. other governments consider that reinstating border controls is an efficient way to fight organised crime, as if criminals follow rules. the alde group has been very firm and vocal from the very beginning. we do not want – and we will not accept – any new mechanism that may affect the schengen acquis, the very spirit of eu integration. instead, we are ready and have already started working towards better schengen governance for better protection of the eu external borders – while fully respecting the human rights of those trying to reach them – and towards full implementation of the principle of solidarity among member states. politicians who believe that european citizens will like them as a result of this initiative are very wrong. they may get some votes in their own countries in the next elections as politicians, but they will not be forgiven for not acting as great statesmen in the interest of all european citizens, including their own. only the preservation of schengen and its acquis is a win-win situation.
the changes recently proposed in the european council to improve the so-called schengen governance are inconsistent and endanger the free movement of european citizens. the proposal is a serious attack on the integrity of the schengen area, which should be based on mutual trust and solidarity between member states. we cannot accept that situations currently defined as exceptional should be multiplied by a new mechanism, because we would give the possibility to governments with populist nationalist tendencies to use this to promote their anti-unionist policies. we already have the example of denmark, which is violating both the schengen acquis and the principles of the single market, under the closed eyes of the commission, the guarantor of the treaties. finally, i would draw the council's attention to the fact that its lack of transparency and its intention to exclude parliament from adopting the new mechanism or any other legislative proposal is unacceptable and constitutes a serious breach of the treaties.
what is happening now with internal border controls cannot be accepted. the schengen credibility is undermined by the fact that the union does not have a mechanism that can be triggered if a member state fails to properly fulfil its responsibilities at the external border of the union. the solution is to change the intergovernmental approach to a coordinated mechanism at union level. in the event of problems at the external borders, measures should be taken to support the member states concerned, in particular through the intervention of frontex. the reintroduction of controls should apply as a last resort and only if, even after granting the support, the member state is not able to remedy the deficiency within 6 months. in this case, i think it is right to establish financial compensatory measures to support the member states affected by the reintroduction of internal border controls. such a mechanism would avoid situations where a member state unilaterally introduces controls at its borders.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i would also like to congratulate you and i wish you lots of success in your new position. as you will see, you will often have your hands full handling debates as lively and important as today’s. i would also like to thank all the members of the european parliament who supported schengen and who made it absolutely clear that schengen represents freedom and reunification of europe, openness and also togetherness of european nations and european citizens in the european union. this debate also confirmed that it is true that the schengen system has come under pressure recently. we must do everything possible to upgrade it and make it stronger than before. we need to start by restoring trust. we need to maintain mutual trust in our capacity, the capacity of us all, to fully comply with the obligations imposed on us to preserve an area without internal border controls. therefore schengen needs a stronger monitoring and evaluation system. the commission is looking into the possibilities for further strengthening this new mechanism aiming to bring an adequate response to a situation where a member state fails to fulfil its obligations at the external borders. a series of measures could be envisaged at eu level to assist a member state facing heavy pressure at the external borders. it would include inspection visits, technical and financial support, including the participation of frontex. i think we all agree that we need a complex and comprehensive approach to this problem. we are therefore talking about a complete set of measures including an eu-based mechanism, strengthened schengen governance, evaluation and reinforcement of frontex and further guidelines and recommendations to better explain the existing rules. this has to be seen in parallel with the completion of a common asylum system in 2012, where – as we know – we also very often have big divergences in how the asylum system is applied and how asylum status is granted to refugees. i would reiterate once again that we are fully aware in the commission of the crucial importance of free movement for the eu and its future. therefore the commission strongly believes that the proposal for the mechanism should be based on article 77 of the tfeu. this means that the proposal will be subject to ordinary legislative procedure, thus ensuring full involvement of parliament on an equal footing with the council. if you allow me, i should like to conclude on denmark, because several of you have referred to the recent and current developments in denmark. i would like to inform you that on 28 june the commission received a reply from denmark to our questions. the reply is now being carefully evaluated by all the commission services concerned in order to decide if all the commission questions have been answered and if all relevant information has been provided. as i said in my introductory remarks, we are fully aware of our important role as a guardian of the treaties, and we will do our utmost to ensure that all rules, all acquis, and the schengen acquis in this particular context, are fully respected.
in writing. the proposal to amend the schengen system comes at a time when the eu is facing an unprecedented wave of immigration. the message we must convey, the message of a united europe, is confronted by a reality that cannot leave us indifferent. the solutions we need to pursue are those that reconcile european values and current challenges. so we cannot encourage the reintroduction of border controls, especially because there is a risk that certain states will use this opportunity to exacerbate xenophobic tendencies, but we cannot remain passive either. we can only accept the reintroduction of border controls with clear criteria of conditionality, which do not affect the schengen acquis and which are already provided for in regulation 562/2006. the problems caused by the influx of migrants must be solved by sharing responsibility between the signatory states of the acquis. moreover, we must not forget that these problems stem from the reluctance to implement common european policies in other areas, firstly a common european asylum and immigration system (including an approach to illegal immigration and to fight organised crime). but this deadlock must not be reinforced by even more drastic measures that undermine the eu's core values.
in writing. membership of schengen entails the full freedom of movement of nationals of a member state within this area and the total abolition of border controls between member states. the security of the schengen area depends on the rigour and effectiveness with which each schengen member state carries out controls at the eu's external borders. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental principles of the union and the completion of the internal market is based on the free movement of goods, services and persons. the schengen area is one of the eu's main achievements and it is therefore important to promote and defend the principles that govern it. the economic and financial crisis should not be invoked as a justification for the introduction by certain member states of restrictions on the free movement of persons. i reiterate my firm opposition to any new schengen mechanism having other objectives than the strengthening of the free movement of persons. we cannot have double standards in the schengen area and i regret the attempt by some member states to unilaterally reintroduce checks at the internal borders of the union. i ask the commission to assess as a matter of urgency the respect of the community and schengen acquis in the event of the decision taken by the united kingdom of denmark to re-introduce border controls at its borders.
the programme for the most deprived persons is one of the best known and most appreciated european programmes by the citizens of the european union, as it supports the provision of food to particularly vulnerable individuals or families who are in a difficult situation. in the european union, 43 million people cannot afford to eat a full meal every two days, and the economic and financial crisis has increased the number. in 2009, 18 million citizens in 19 member states benefited from 440 000 tonnes of food. we support continuing the programme and returning to the budget of 500 million euros a year. i believe it is urgent to find sources of funding for the programme for the period 2011-2013 and then to establish a sustainable solution, including from a legal point of view, for the period 2014-2020. the un report on the food crisis requires us to act immediately and responsibly.
although europe has the highest standard of living in the world, millions of people are unable to obtain the food they need. by reducing the total funding for the programme to provide food to the most deprived people in the european union, many people will be deprived of a fundamental right, the right to food. the court of justice's ruling must be matched by the need to find solutions for the continuation of the programme in the medium and long term, on a permanent basis and in line with the legal situation. the common agricultural policy is a social policy, in which not only farmers but all european citizens, as taxpayers, must be represented. supporting people in need is therefore a responsibility that must demonstrate unity in diversity at european level.
we are more than 30 years away from the first direct elections for members of the european parliament and i welcome mr duff's report. however, i do not support the idea of transnational lists, because that would mean creating two categories of members of the european parliament: some who are elected in national constituencies, and others who should be elected on the basis of a european-level constituency. i wanted to stress this, because it is important that the members of the european parliament be equal, and therefore that they can represent the citizens of the member states.
i believe that mr van orden's report brings into question one of the security risks that still plagues europe. antipersonnel mines have been used extensively in conflicts such as the one in the balkans, continuing to cause civilian casualties. demining former conflict zones is costly and time-consuming. not all affected states have the necessary funds for such an activity. for this reason, the return of the inhabitants is difficult and there is a risk of accidents. i believe that better coordination between international donors would ensure legal support for the gradual demining of conflict zones. it is also important to involve local authorities in this process, which will be beneficial to them. in this context, i also call on the specialized non-governmental organizations to concentrate their efforts and put an end to this problem.
in writing. − the percentage of the european population aged over 60 will increase at a much faster rate than before. this is a consequence of improved health care services and quality of life. however, the eu is facing a sharp decline in population in some regions, with severe pressure on pension funds and problems with financial resources for health care and public services. a key way to address these challenges is to promote the creation of a sustainable culture of active ageing, thus ensuring that the population segment of people approaching or over 60 years of age has appropriate opportunities for active participation in social life, cultural expression and sport, taking into account the positive contribution of these activities to mental and physical health. ageing is a challenge for society as a whole and for all generations, but it is also about solidarity between generations and the role of the family. promoting a culture of active ageing therefore requires a multidimensional approach throughout the life course and solidarity between generations.
in writing. − i was the virtual rapporteur of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament for the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the european year of active ageing (2012). the proposed initiative aims to support and encourage the efforts of member states, local authorities, social partners and civil society to promote active ageing and to make more efforts to exploit the potential of the population over 50 years of age. the european year should therefore serve as a framework for raising awareness, identifying and disseminating good practices and, most importantly, encouraging decision-makers and stakeholders at all levels to promote active ageing, social inclusion and the effective use of the experience of older workers.
in writing. − to promote active ageing, it is of the utmost importance to strengthen solidarity and cooperation between generations. this solidarity should not be approached from a purely financial perspective but should also be seen in a broader context that includes promoting mutual cooperation and exchanges between generations, so that each generation can find its place in society and contribute to european society as best it can. european society must become a society for all ages. governments and public policies need to respond to this challenge in several areas, in particular by establishing framework conditions to deal with the consequences of population ageing. the private sector, social partners and civil society, as well as individual citizens, must each contribute in their own way. all these stakeholders are key factors in providing solutions to the challenge of an ageing european society. the commission and the member states should consider mainstreaming the principle of equality between women and men, persons with disabilities, persons belonging to ethnic minorities, in particular those belonging to the roma minority, in the implementation of the european year. it is also important to promote good health and a high quality of life, including by ensuring access to high-quality health care services.
in writing. - i support this resolution and express the hope that the violent repression in syria and yemen will end. the moment a leader or a ruling class chooses violence to maintain power, the legitimacy of their decisions suffers greatly. when innocent women and children are among the victims, the situation must be condemned in unison by all who believe in the values of democracy, freedom of expression and the right of a citizen to challenge his own rulers.
in writing. − firstly, the report stresses the importance of eu external policies by underlining the fact that partnerships based on dialogue and consultation on the protection of human rights must constitute a real priority in its policy towards third countries. secondly, i believe that the democratisation process has to go hand-in-hand with social and economic development in third countries. thirdly, the report gives a special place to civil society, which has proven to be a pillar of democracy. this is why i voted in favour of véronique de keyser’s report.
in writing. − the eu needs to shift from a stability to a democracy paradigm. in the area of human rights and democracy, it needs to establish greater consistency between its values and democracy as it is actually practised, between its internal and its external policies, and between the institutions. the eu consequently has a duty, through its different programmes, to strengthen its support for civil society and social movements (trade unions, mutual societies, women’s networks and youth networks), supporting the spread of those movements. however, it must also take steps to promote the freedom of expression of independent media and the protection of journalists and human rights defenders. it is important to emphasise the need for a gender perspective in the implementation of the guidelines, with targeted actions in favour of female human rights defenders and other particularly vulnerable groups, such as journalists and defenders working to promote economic, social and cultural rights, children's rights, and minority rights. i underline the necessity for women's full participation in all areas of peace and security in order to enhance conflict prevention, ensure sustainable peace and develop specific training programs allowing female entrepreneurs to increase their participation in world trade.
in writing. − i consider the european council's initiative to amend the schengen rules to be unacceptable. i regret that the leaders of some member states want to punctuate elections with the risk of diluting one of the eu's most important achievements and one of the most visible positive aspects for european citizens. these proposed amendments denote a dual attitude of the eu. on the one hand, european leaders are speaking in solidarity with arab peoples who aspire to democracy, while on the other, refugees are being denied access to the eu on the grounds that migration flows would be excessive. i do not dispute that when all refugees arrive in one member state, such a situation can present difficulties. but it is precisely for this reason that we need more solidarity between member states and the finalisation of a common european asylum system and a genuine common immigration policy. the solution to making schengen more efficient is not to reintroduce controls, which would amount to destroying the schengen area, but to introduce complementary mechanisms for jointly managing migration flows. i refuse to subscribe to these proposals and hope that we can concentrate on the real problems of the schengen area, leaving aside such diversions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the european parliament resolution on the amendments to the schengen system, as the creation of the schengen area and the integration of the schengen acquis within the eu is one of the greatest achievements of the european integration process, meaning the absence of internal border controls and unprecedented freedom of movement within the european union. freedom of movement has become one of the basic elements of european citizenship and one of the cornerstones of the eu as an area of freedom, security and justice, enshrining the right to free movement and residence in all member states under conditions of equal rights, guarantees and protections, including the prohibition of all forms of discrimination based on nationality. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the schengen acquis to all third-country nationals who are not nationals of the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the amendments to the schengen system. it has a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of eu citizens, not only by making it easier to cross borders, but also by boosting the economy. support the strengthening of schengen governance to ensure that each member state can effectively control its own part of the eu's external borders, to build confidence in the effectiveness of the eu migration management system. i would stress that the correct and proper implementation of the schengen rules by the member states must be guaranteed, even after their accession. the conditions for the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls in exceptional situations are already clearly laid down in regulation 562/2006 (schengen borders code). i consider that the influx of migrants and asylum seekers at the external borders cannot in any case be considered as an additional reason for reintroducing border controls. we call on the commission to present an initiative aimed at defining the strict application of articles 23, 24 and 25 of the schengen borders code. i consider that any new additional derogations from the current rules, such as new grounds for reintroducing border controls for 'exceptional' situations, will in no way strengthen the schengen system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ep resolution because interparliamentary cooperation is given a central role in the new eu treaty in order to build genuine democratic legitimacy. the contribution of national parliaments to shaping the common foreign and security policy is particularly useful. articles 9 and 10 provide for specialised committees as a working instrument, which gives greater flexibility to the procedure. i believe that the exchange of good practice between delegations contributes to improving the consultation process and to a faster adaptation to the other union mechanisms. i welcome the creation of an initiative by the conference of parliamentary bodies to bring relevant issues to the attention of the european institutions. communication with national authorities in this way will facilitate foreign policy decision-making at european level. interparliamentary cooperation is also a way of increasing the representation of citizens in the political processes of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union, as the european commission estimates that 80 million people in the eu are at risk of poverty and that, because of the financial and economic crisis, their number could increase, and one of the five priorities of the eu 2020 strategy is to reduce poverty and social exclusion in the european union. it is an essential form of solidarity at a time when conservative policies, national egos and social disparities are putting the most deprived of our fellow citizens at a disadvantage.
i join those who condemn the killings in south kivu province and sexual violence as a weapon of war. local sources indicate that about 40 rapes are committed daily, and often the perpetrators are members of the military or armed groups. during this time, medical, social, and legal assistance for victims is lacking, and perpetrators go unpunished and uninvestigated. the protection of the 170 victims and witnesses is necessary to allow for an urgent, independent and impartial investigation to punish the perpetrators of the june violence. we insist on ending this situation and the culture of impunity. i call on the commission to urgently release additional funds to combat sexual violence and provide assistance to victims. the financial pressure of the european union must be used for this cause.
it is not the first time that we have drawn attention to the situation in the congo and we condemn in the strongest possible terms not only the atrocities committed with a frightening rhythm in that country but also the passivity of the congolese authorities. in the last five months, only 11 military personnel have appeared in court charged with rape. but reports from non-governmental organizations say that 400,000 women have been raped in the congo in the last decade, and according to statistics, 48 women are raped every hour. this humanitarian crisis is amplified by impunity and prejudice that turn rape into a taboo, otherwise, victims risk exclusion from their families and communities. this is the case for many of the 121 women who reported being raped in june in south kivu province. i call on the commission to devote more funds and attention to the creation of care centres for victims and to actions for their family and social reintegration. i also renew the call for the creation of an international criminal tribunal for the congo, the only viable solution against impunity. i also call on the authorities of european countries to facilitate the obtaining of residence permits for rape victims seeking refuge in the european union.
i am deeply outraged by the mass rapes that took place in june in south kivu province. unfortunately, the democratic republic of congo has been, for the past 20 years, the scene of some of the most deadly conflicts since world war ii, over 5 million, and already has a sad tradition of atrocities and grave human rights violations. i believe that the european union must show solidarity, support the victims of these atrocities and, as far as possible, help to find a lasting solution to the extremely difficult situation in the democratic republic of congo. but now, as soon as possible, the european union must provide financial assistance to combat sexual violence and to assist victims of such violence. the number one priority must be to provide adequate medical care and support for the integration of these victims into congolese society. we'll have to make sure that the money actually reaches the victims and is used for assistance.
of course, i have read a number of studies that show how many rapes are taking place in the republic of congo at this time, but i think it is worse what my colleague veronique de keyser told me, who was there and saw how much suffering there is among the population, how much terror, especially among women and children. this situation must end and we, the institutions of the european union, must firmly demand here in parliament that the congolese authorities carry out all the necessary investigations and punish the guilty, and also provide medical, legal and psychological counselling to all the victims, who must be included in a protection programme, and also that the entire international community, especially women's organisations, react, put an end to this situation in congo.
the author. - indonesia, as we know, is an important partner of the european union in the muslim world, and it must be said that in recent years there has been progress in this country towards democracy and the protection of human rights. it is sufficient to mention, for example, the ratification of important international instruments. the situation of minorities, and particularly religious minorities, whether ahmadis, christians or buddhists, has worsened considerably. the proliferation of laws that restrict the rights of religious minorities and the increasingly violent attacks on them are evidence of the spread of intolerance in indonesia. the jakarta authorities should develop a clear strategy to ensure respect for religious freedom and promote tolerance. of course, we also need to abolish discriminatory legislation and punish those who are guilty of violence. i believe that the partnership and cooperation agreement we have with indonesia is a privileged framework to address the situation of religious freedom and minorities.
on behalf of the ppe group. the vast majority of the population of the european union is christian. the former configuration of the member states involved in integration is inseparable from christian culture, but the main reason why we must speak out against attacks on christians in indonesia and elsewhere in the world is that european states have committed themselves to a high level of protection of fundamental human rights and want to uphold this principle with their important trading partners. this courageous stand also presupposes that eu member states respect the rights of minorities living on their territory, including the recognition of the special status of indigenous national minorities. as the world's most populous predominantly muslim country, indonesia has a special responsibility for the treatment of religious and ethnic minorities on its territory. similarly, the european union has a huge responsibility to deal with its own minorities and to pay greater attention to their problems.
the recent tensions in indonesia contradict the concept of a multicultural society promoted by the authorities in recent years. i draw attention to the increasing number of attacks against religious minorities, in particular the ahmadiyya and christian communities. the indonesian authorities have a duty to take the necessary measures to protect their citizens, regardless of religion or opinion. these include investigating and adequately punishing acts of violence, including those of 6 february 2011, and combating intolerance. i call on the government in jakarta to give priority to these matters. civil society also has an important role to play in restoring social cohesion at this time. the eu, in turn, can make a concrete contribution to promoting a higher level of human rights protection through dialogue and cooperation with the indonesian authorities.
indonesia is the world's largest muslim country and a consolidated democracy. sadly, in recent years, as in more and more parts of the world, there have been acts of violence against religious minorities. religious fundamentalism is on the rise, and indonesia is one of the countries affected by this scourge. the resolution refers to a series of discriminatory acts against several minorities, which cause tensions between different communities, victims of religious intolerance. extreme cases of sharia law enforcement have also been reported, in contravention of indonesian law. i believe that we need to work more closely with the indonesian government to support the improvement of respect for the rights of all minorities in this country.
member of the commission. − madam president, the vice-president/high representative shares parliament’s concerns about discrimination against religious minorities, in particular the ahmadi and christian communities. she also shares the concerns about the impact of introduction of sharia-based laws on human rights, in particular the rights of women. i would, though, like to underline that we have good long-standing relations with indonesia, with whom we signed the first partnership and cooperation agreement in asia. the eu has raised the matter of violence against religious minorities through established channels. we have made it clear to indonesia that this problem has to be tackled seriously, based on respect and protection of beliefs, without discrimination. following the attacks last february against the ahmadiyyah, the european union issued a statement expressing strong concern, and emphasising the need for an effective response by the government. the eu delegation in jakarta met with representatives of the ahmadi community. the eu also raised this issue in the official human rights dialogue that we established with indonesia in 2010, at the meeting which took place in march in brussels. we emphasised the government’s obligation to protect all religious communities and stressed that the police should be trained, including on human rights, to respond to threats and violence against religious minorities. we are delivering practical assistance in these areas. since 2002, the eu has funded, for an amount of eur 750 000, eight projects carried out by civil society organisations. these projects are aimed at enhancing tolerance and peace and promoting pluralism and multiculturalism. we are also working with the indonesian government to foster inter-faith dialogue. last year we organised together a seminar on islam and a globalising world, which brought together ngos, government representatives, european academics and islamic religious scholars. looking ahead, we are preparing a major conference with eu and indonesian civil society in jakarta this october, on freedom of religion and protection of minorities. its recommendations will be fed into the next session of the human rights dialogue. we follow closely developments concerning the implementation of sharia-based laws, in particular in the province of aceh. we raised this question in the human rights dialogue last march. the indonesian government informed us that aceh has agreed to abide by international obligations and is in dialogue with local authorities and civil society to harmonise local by-laws with human right standards. i would also like to mention the case of the torture of papuan prisoners and the lenient sentences imposed on the soldiers convicted by a military tribunal in relation to recent cases. we discussed this issue in the human rights dialogue and underscored the need for dissuasive punishment for those who commit torture. the indonesian government is committed to ratifying the optional protocol of the convention against torture and is pursuing initiatives to build better community relations in papua. i would like to conclude by mentioning that we are also supporting indonesia in addressing the underlying causes of religious violence, such as the spread of islamic extremism in schools and in society generally. in this regard, we plan to fund a cooperation programme with indonesia aimed at deradicalisation in the context of the fight against terrorism.
written. – violence against the ahmadis (who consider themselves muslims) and other religious minorities – such as christians, bahá'ís and buddhists – as well as progressive civil society organisations has increased in indonesia. the government is lagging far behind in addressing the underlying causes. investigations have not revealed who was behind the attacks against ahmadis in february 2011. two weeks ago, a 22-year-old female pentecostal pastor was abducted by three islamic radicals. islamic extremism has spread in schools and other public areas. combating discrimination and securing the human rights of all, including minorities, should be a prerequisite for good relations between the eu and indonesia. i urge the indonesian authorities to take effective action to protect the life and personal integrity of all members of religious minorities. i call for the commission to include a binding human rights clause in the comprehensive economic partnership, insist on a moratorium on the application of blasphemy laws, and persuade the indonesian government to repeal a 2008 ban on ahmadi muslim teachings, which encourages such attacks and infringes upon the freedom of religion.
the author. − an article published in the international press on 13 june reported that the indian state of assam has no executioner available to carry out the death sentence of mahendra nath das, whose request for pardon was rejected by the country's president. another death row inmate whose request for clemency was denied is davinder pal singh. we would like such an important partner of the european union as india to respect the moratorium requested by the united nations general assembly and not execute the two men mentioned. fortunately, as you know, india has not carried out the death penalty since 2007. but we would welcome india's view, as the eu does, that the abolition of the death penalty is a factor in the promotion of human dignity. perhaps the fact that no one is found willing to carry out the death penalty is a sign that the time has come for india to ban the death penalty.
as a member of the eu-india delegation, i would stress that human rights, democracy and security are essential elements of the eu-india relationship. i recall the pledge by the european union and india to make major progress towards the swift conclusion of a comprehensive and balanced free trade agreement. i support the inclusion in this agreement of legally binding human rights clauses, including a consultation mechanism modelled on article 96 of the cotonou agreement. india has committed itself to upholding the highest standards of human rights promotion and protection and we express our concern that the indian government may resort to the death penalty again after a de facto moratorium of seven years. we call upon the government and parliament of india to adopt a permanent moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty in the near future.
we are now discussing a specific case: the death sentence of davinder pal singh, a citizen of india, a country where the death penalty is still in force. basically, the death penalty is not an option in our world and in our value system. india has also imposed a moratorium on the use of the death penalty. it was an important gesture and the purpose of this resolution of the european parliament is to urge the institutions of the indian state to respect the moratorium in this case as well as the various un resolutions on this subject. i believe that the european union has a duty to continue to use all its influence to abolish the death penalty worldwide.
on behalf of the epp group. the argument we want to make is very simple. it's important, of course, that we debate it, and we'll do it on wednesday afternoon. i also want to note in this context that it's important to discuss this separately from the syrian case. on the other hand, beyond debate, we believe a vote is required. it is not right to postpone a vote that shows a consensus position of our parliament. on the contrary, we believe that a vote is urgently required. it's good to vote before gaddafi is captured or gone and no one can guarantee that won't happen until the next session. in short, the vote is as important as the debate.
the laudable initiative to promote development as the central pillar of the multilateral trading system through the doha round is today proving to be a chimera. the opening of the doha round was necessary to address the inequalities produced by the uruguay round, which focused on the interests of rich countries to the detriment of developing and least developed countries. however, even in the current negotiations, the level of development of the participating countries has not always been taken into account. thus, in order to grant concessions on agricultural subsidies, industrialized countries have asked developing countries to reciprocate in other areas. for development to be more than a decorative principle of the doha round, there is a need for duty-free and quota-free market access for products from ldcs, as agreed at the 2005 hong kong conference, special and differential treatment for developing countries, the elimination of export subsidies for cotton by developed countries, improved preferential certificates of origin for imports from ldcs, and greater financial effort by the united states and the european union in the area of trade support. the success of the doha round depends on the credibility of the world trade organisation itself in managing global governance. the wto risks being reduced to a mere forum of inefficiency. the challenges we face, the sovereign debt crisis, the alarming unemployment rate, the volatility of food prices, illicit trade, climate change, all require global management. i therefore believe that there is a need for a rethinking of the multilateral trading system, which will enable the development objectives proposed by the doha agenda to be achieved through the wto and a more effective approach to the links between trade and global challenges. furthermore, enhanced cooperation between the wto and other international organisations and bodies, such as the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations, the international labour organisation or the united nations environment and development programmes, could lead to the creation of international standards addressing trade, social, development and environmental concerns. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the need for more democracy and transparency in the work of the wto. if we really want free trade and economic globalisation on a level playing field, then we have to take into account more than a few factors essential to economic equilibrium, such as the need to encourage trade, especially in technology and innovation, and to avoid causes of harm to the quality of life of citizens and the environment. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
of course we can talk. i have presented a point of view in which i have expressed my opinion, in view of what is happening after ten years in the doha programme. i think we are at the stage where we must take urgent action and we must take the most correct stance in support of the world trade organization. i don't want you to get that impression. i merely said that i think that if we continue at this rate, the wto will become a forum for discussion, a forum in which no decision is taken in favour of the development of multilateral trade.
i believe that we need a stimulating stance on the doha development agenda, which so far represents only a global attempt to put the development process at the heart of the multilateral trading system. i therefore believe that developed countries must take greater account of the needs and imbalances of developing countries and ensure that they are given special and differential treatment in accordance with previous agreements, including a derogation on services and a different monitoring mechanism. new investment is needed to boost economic recovery and stability in developing countries, many of which are affected by internal crises and disastrous conflicts. i therefore call on the european commission to continue to support the ambitious goals set out in the 2001 doha ministerial declaration, as well as the commitments made at the 2005 hong kong wto ministerial conference, by promoting development as a central objective of the doha agenda. i also believe that in the current context the european union can and must play a more active role as a mediator between the different positions of the members of the world trade organisation. in this context, i would like to recall that article 208 of the treaty of lisbon on policy coherence for development obliges the european union to take account of the impact of trade and other policies on developing countries. with a view to the 8th world trade organisation meeting in geneva, the most appropriate solutions to address the main challenges facing these countries must be identified so that trade can drive sustainable development. in particular, restrictions on exports of natural resources require comprehensive regulation at the level of international trade rules. these riches are the main source of income for many developing countries. i would also like to draw attention to the impact of emerging economies and i think it is appropriate to reiterate the call on these countries to assume their responsibility as significant global actors and to report their concessions to their own level of development and sectoral competitiveness. the changes in the last decade, stimulated and influenced by the economic crisis, may have negative effects on the doha round, which needs to be adapted in a more dynamic manner to the new global circumstances. food insecurity, caused by massive price increases and climate change, is one of the key elements to be considered in this regard. in turn, agricultural subsidies to developing countries and export subsidies to developed countries have negative effects, requiring remedies that do not affect economic balances within and between these countries.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission will remain firmly committed to a successful outcome of the doha negotiations and we are also pleased with the expressions of support in the chamber. we would obviously have preferred a much stronger multilateral commitment than the present one and to conclude these negotiations in a positive way is certainly good news, not only for us in europe but also for the rest of the world economy. i can assure you that over the next ten weeks commissioner de gucht and his staff will be stepping up their efforts and contacts and the commissioner has asked me to tell you that he will be pleased to have further discussions on the future of doha in the committee on international trade. unfortunately, as the presidency has said, commissioner de gucht had to leave the house against his will because he had to take a flight to south africa for the summit and the bilateral trade talks. we can only stress the importance of doha in keeping world markets open, in improving the functioning of markets that are already open and in opening up the market even more in accordance with the needs of a world economy in the era of globalisation, with an ever-increasing number of players, and where not all have the same economic weight; but, i repeat, the commission will do everything possible to ensure that the economy benefits from the conclusion of the doha agreements.
in writing. i would like to remind the commission that the european parliament has called for strict compliance with the negotiating mandate given by the council in the doha development agenda since last year. i also remind the commission that it is necessary to complete the debate on the future of the common agricultural policy post 2013 before making new proposals to our trading partners. i believe that the european union has already made enough concessions in the field of agriculture, including reducing support for farmers; unfortunately, the same concessions were not adopted by other negotiating states, and the situation is similar with regard to the applicable quality and food safety rules - which puts european producers at a disadvantage worldwide. the doha negotiations are a serious responsibility for the commission, and i call on it once again to give the agriculture sector the attention it needs.
rapporteur for the opinion, committee on agriculture and rural development. − first of all, i would like to welcome the commission's communication on raw materials and the proposal to create a european union strategy in this area. i would like to stress that agricultural commodities must be given special attention in view of the need to ensure global security. we're facing a number of problems with agricultural commodities, whether it's extreme volatility in markets and prices and dwindling global food supplies, or malfunctions in the food chain. it should also be borne in mind that the eu strategy must take into account factors such as barriers to exports and, to this end, these issues need to be clarified in advance within the world trade organisation. i hope that the future european union strategy will take account of all the specificities of agricultural raw materials and agricultural markets and will be an effective strategy to ensure security of supply.
i thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and for the inclusion of the amendments in the final text of the report. the european union is entirely dependent on imports of raw materials, and demand for raw materials will be driven by future developments in emerging economies and the rapid spread of related technologies. rare materials and rare earths are traded globally, with markets for certain rare materials and rare earths being less transparent and trading volumes very low compared to other materials. rare earths are used in the manufacture of watches, mobile phones and other everyday appliances. they're essential for making the permanent magnets used in wind turbines, they're essential for electric vehicles, catalytic converters for cars, electronic circuits, fiber optics and high-temperature superconductors. so rare earths are essential for the european union economy to become an eco-efficient economy. i call on the commission and the member states to develop a research and innovation programme in the future research framework programme for new materials and materials that could replace the current raw materials whose resources are scarce in the future. i also stress the need to invest in the recycling of raw materials and rare earths, as their mining, refining and recycling have serious environmental consequences if not managed properly. it is also important for the european union to establish advantageous partnerships with resource-rich countries such as those in north america, australia, asia and the mercosur region. i call on the european union to support resource-rich developing countries such as india and brazil. as a member of the eu-mercosur delegation, i draw attention to the 5th eu-brazil summit, which will take place on 4 october in brussels. the availability of raw materials and rare earths is essential for the industrial development of the european union. we therefore call on the commission to translate the recommendations of this report into concrete action by the commission and the member states. finally, we ask the commission to update the list of raw materials regularly in order to keep abreast of market and technological developments.
european firms are facing intensified competition for resources, raw materials. this competition will become increasingly aggressive because, on the one hand, we are seeing population growth, especially concentrated in emerging countries, and, on the other hand, the sustained economic growth taking place in these emerging countries and intensifying the global demand for resources. in addition, the geographical location of resources in certain countries creates and complicates this competition, because some countries are inclined to use politically these resources that they have. so it's no coincidence that governments in some countries are intervening with industrial policies to support, to create advantages for firms in this global competition. we cannot help but see that some countries are using public funds to create such advantages. the european union cannot stand idly by and i appreciate the direction given in this strategy. obviously, the main effort must be made to decouple economic growth in european countries from resource consumption through innovation, through saving. at the same time, at the level of the european union, we need to support european companies more through policies that, on the one hand, encourage strategic alliances, as well as private investment in resource-rich countries and, of course, fair trade conditions in the raw materials markets.
europe faces both challenges and opportunities in raw materials. the challenge must be turned into an opportunity to reinvigorate europe's industrial power. a european industrial innovation strategy is needed to address the efficient use of raw materials in europe. the intensification of innovation in the means of using raw materials by european industries will contribute significantly to european competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. the union must develop partnerships with third countries, strengthen negotiations on raw materials. this could create an international regulatory platform to ensure that the union is supplied with the necessary raw materials from third countries. the commission should draw up a study identifying the import dependency of european industries and the threats to raw material supply and assessing current and future prices. the study will enable industries and research institutions to engage in long-term projects and investments.
we all know that europe faces both significant challenges and opportunities in terms of raw materials. raw materials policies are also of particular importance to the european union, both in terms of industrial policy and international trade and in terms of cross-cutting policies in relation to different areas of internal policy as well as foreign and security policy. in this context, i believe that effective monitoring of agricultural raw materials policies is essential for an effective strategy. i believe that there is a need for closer coordination between the european commission and the member states and for regular information to the european parliament on the progress of the initiative on agricultural raw materials, by means of an annual activity report. last but not least, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done on this report.
i believe that the european union needs an effective raw materials strategy if it is to remain competitive in the industrial sector. a coherent and effective resource diplomacy is also essential to achieve this. this is all the more important as the supply of raw materials has an impact on a wide range of union policies. i welcome the fact that the report stresses the importance of diplomatic instruments and makes concrete suggestions for cooperation with external partners, for example support for developing countries, including through the transfer of scientific and legal knowledge. i also recall the importance of coordination between the eu's external policy in this area and that of the member states. i therefore express the hope that the eeas will prove to be an important additional instrument in the eu's dialogue with other actors on the issue of raw materials.
in writing. the european industry is facing a delicate situation with regard to the supply of raw materials. we are now heavily dependent on imports, especially of rare earths. these resources are crucial to the eu's transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy. i believe that the proposal to set up a european working group on raw materials, covering all the directorates-general concerned, can have a positive impact and is an effective measure. this working group should develop priority actions on the management of the key elements and ensure strategic cohesion. i also believe that special attention should be paid to the recovery of useful materials from waste in urban areas. the challenge we face today must be turned into an opportunity to reinvigorate europe's industrial power by harnessing our research, development and innovation potential. we need to maintain a leading global position in terms of competitiveness and adopt an industrial innovation strategy to make efficient use of resources and recycling processes. last but not least, we must ensure that the european union develops sustainable and mutually beneficial partnerships with resource-rich countries and strategies based on them.
i would like to draw attention to the serious abuses by the government in bucharest against local opposition elected officials, with painful effects on the citizens they represent in the european parliament. i refer to the unprecedented situation in my county, teleorman, where the prefect abuses administrative control to block the activity of local authorities, despite court rulings already expressed in those cases. a serious example is the repeated judicial challenge of decisions to approve budgets at the county council and in 34 localities, although the law does not confer on the prefect powers to control the appropriateness, but only the legality of administrative acts. the immediate consequence is the suspension of all local funding pending a court ruling. moreover, several european projects risk being irreversibly compromised by the accumulation of penalties and the exceeding of deadlines. i ask the commission to call the romanian government to account for its repeated and deliberate violation of the european charter of local self-government and its blocking of european projects, with particularly serious consequences for european citizens.
as stated, mr president, on 5 may 2010 the european parliament adopted a resolution by an overwhelming majority of 488 votes to ban cyanide in mining. i have sent several messages to the commission, asking for a legislative proposal that would concretely reflect the desire of european citizens to protect the environment. last week, the commission decided to say that 'as regards the introduction of a general ban on mining with cyanide-based technologies, the commission considers that it is not justified by actions relating to the protection of the environment or health. commissioners, by defying the decision of the european parliament, you will automatically be complicit in what means the destruction of an entire region of romania, a disaster not only economic but also cultural and social, an environmental disaster in a country of the european union.
september marks the beginning of the school year. the european union's international competitiveness is based primarily on the quality of its human resources, and the union is recognised as a centre of excellence in education. member states are experiencing the effects of the economic and financial crisis. some member states, in the process of fiscal consolidation, have reduced their budgets for education. i regret that in romania, in the last two years, many schools, especially in rural areas, and thousands of educational posts have been abolished. the main effect of these measures is the increase in school dropout, especially in rural areas, which endangers the future of the younger generations. the future of the member states and the competitiveness of the union depend on the quality and, above all, on universal access to education. education is a right and should not become a luxury. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that access to education is guaranteed in all member states and that investment in education becomes a priority.
according to the latest annual report published by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, 41 new psychoactive substances became available in 2010. a significant proportion of these have been identified as legal drugs. the proliferation of legal drugs demonstrates the speed and complexity with which the drug market responds to current control measures. although many hospitalizations and deaths have been attributed to these substances in the eu member states, their health effects have often not been tested, demonstrating the need for a more comprehensive approach to address this worrying phenomenon. i believe that the rapid proliferation of legal drugs is a public health problem for the european union and that action is needed at european level to analyse, control and inform citizens about the dangers of their use.
i welcome the debate on this report on the tenth anniversary of the attacks which changed global counter-terrorism policy. in the amendments i proposed, i supported international cooperation in the fight against terrorism, but with respect for human rights. the new european external action service has a key role to play in this. coordination with council structures and european agencies ensures a single response to current security challenges. the relevant un treaties serve as the legal benchmark in relation to other international organisations. i call attention to article 23. in the context of the latest developments in east africa, it is important to include somalia in the eu counter-terrorism policy target list. i believe that the eu has a duty to present its own clear and results-oriented strategy in this area.
in writing. ten years after the attacks of 11 september 2001, terrorist threats continue to pose serious problems for the european union and its citizens, with 249 attacks recorded in 2010 in europe alone. the european commission should consider increasing the funds for counter-terrorism assistance under the future instrument for stability. according to statements by the director of europol to the european parliament this year, terrorist groups are becoming increasingly diverse and flexible in their mode of operation, with evidence of increased international cooperation between groups. this is why it is necessary to extend and strengthen existing strategic partnerships on counter-terrorism and to establish new ones with countries outside europe.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report which is of particular importance for the fisheries in the black sea. i believe it is important for romania, as a member state of the european union with access to the sea, to participate actively in the development of the common fisheries policy, which is an important component, given that the european union is the second world fisheries power after china. romania is thus directly interested in the principles and guidelines of this policy being applied to the black sea and, in particular, in their being consistent with the regional specifics of the european union states bordering the black sea. in this context, as regards future financing, i believe that, in order to meet the commitments undertaken, romania is interested in maintaining a substantial financial instrument in the field of fisheries and aquaculture. this requires a differentiated approach to support, based on the convergence criterion and taking greater account of regional specificities.
recognising the importance of the black sea economic cooperation organisation, the black sea synergy, the convention on the protection of the black sea against pollution and the geostrategic importance of the black sea for the european union, we call on the commission to develop a european union strategy for the black sea region, which should be integrated with the european union strategy for the danube region. marine fisheries are an important economic sector in the black sea countries. romania and bulgaria became members of the european union in 2007, which extended the common fisheries policy to the black sea. the challenges facing the black sea fisheries are: lack of cooperative regional fisheries management, use of destructive harvesting techniques, eutrophication and pollution, pollution from land-based sources and direct discharges, loss of valuable spawning and breeding habitats, and fishing. i believe that the black sea should be given an appropriate status in community policies and to this end, sufficient diplomatic and scientific efforts should be made and adequate financial resources should be made available for sustainable fishing in this basin.
i would stress that drilling activities off the coast of one member state can have a significant impact on other member states and therefore i consider it necessary to impose performance criteria on safety of exploitation. european citizens, the environment and european industry must benefit from a high level of security and the industry must benefit from a simplified legislative framework and a level playing field. i call on the commission and the member states to analyse the best practices for offshore exploration and production activities and to propose improvements to the legislative framework. i also call on the member states and the commission to ensure that the authorisation regime provides for adequate financial instruments so that, in the event of a major incident, the financial resources needed to cover the economic, social and environmental damage caused by an oil or gas leak can be mobilised as a matter of urgency. before the offshore licences are granted, i think it's necessary to do environmental impact studies.
the current economic and financial crisis in the european union has led to a multiplication of the already existing problems for women entrepreneurs, especially in the early stages after starting an economic activity. we all know how important the role of microenterprises is in the european economy. about 90% of european businesses have fewer than 10 employees, with more than a quarter being set up by unemployed people. i believe it is essential that the union's financial support for women entrepreneurs be maintained in the future budget and that the tax benefits for smes be accessible to all entrepreneurs without discrimination. it is also important that the involvement of women in entrepreneurial activities is promoted more in the european labour market, including for the exchange of experience and good practice and for the rationalisation of resources.
statistics show that the financial and economic crisis has exacerbated the problems for many women entrepreneurs, especially in the first three years of their activity. we therefore encourage the commission, the member states and regional and local authorities to make more use of available funding opportunities, such as the european progres microfinance facility, which provides microcredit of up to eur 25 000 to micro-enterprises and individuals wishing to set up their own micro-enterprises. for women to become entrepreneurs, equal access to traditional business networking opportunities, information and communication technology is important. for working women, the availability and quality of childcare services for children under three years of age is also essential. i ask the commission and the member states to pay particular attention to the situation of women over 50, to help them set up their own companies and to consider setting up mentoring and support programmes for them.
smes play a fundamental role in economic growth, social cohesion and job creation. however, the european business environment is characterised by inequality between men and women. the latter account for only 30% of all european entrepreneurs. this discrimination harms both women and the economy. europe must have programmes to encourage and support women in business. i support the creation of an agency to develop businesses started and run by women. i also think it is necessary to set up a european database for the implementation of a real policy on women entrepreneurs. the potential of women in business must be used more effectively, at local, regional and national levels as well as at european level.
in writing. equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the eu, but inequalities in entrepreneurship or decision-making still exist in most european countries. statistics show that the number of women entrepreneurs is significantly lower than that of men, standing at around 30%. given the major role that smes play in economic development, it is important to stimulate women's investment behaviour from their school benches. at the same time, we must fight to remove gender stereotypes that are perpetuated from one generation to the next. i also think that the exchange of good practice between the more economically developed and poorer regions of the eu, including through programmes such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs, would be useful. in this context, i believe it is essential to make better use of the funding opportunities available to women entrepreneurs, for example the european progress microfinance facility. last but not least, special attention should be paid to providing childcare facilities to enable women to continue their careers shortly after giving birth.
in writing. in the european union, the number of women entrepreneurs is well below the number of men in business. however, they do bring an important economic contribution to society. i believe that in order to strengthen their position, it is essential to recognise the skills of women in the workplace and to assist them through the media. this will not only encourage them to move up in the business environment, but also ensure a fair environment where there is no place for gender discrimination. in the same vein, agreements between national governments and banks for the provision of favourable credit to boost women's entry into the business world should be encouraged.
in a globalised world, solidarity between generations, especially the use of the potential of older women, is important for the vocational training of the younger generation. the example and experience of older women is a valuable economic resource and a real storehouse of experience that can become a real asset to the community. it considers it necessary to encourage all measures which contribute to improving equal opportunities policies, so as to avoid as far as possible discriminatory attitudes towards women approaching retirement age. i also believe that resumption of work after parental leave and retraining should be encouraged to avoid syncopations in the promotion and career development process and to avoid the lack of an adequate pension at the end of a career.
the report by my colleague simon busuttil points to the improvement of the functioning of frontex in line with the european commission's proposal. i particularly welcome the intention to strengthen the provisions on fundamental human rights, since no european measure, not even the strengthening of the protection of external borders, can take this into account. i also agree with my colleague that the agency should pay particular attention to member states facing specific and disproportionate burdens. not only because recent events have brought to light more clearly than ever the difficulties faced by member states in this situation, but also because this is what the idea of european solidarity demands. this is what is required for the success of the plan to create a common area of freedom, security and justice. i would like to stress that the abolition of internal borders and the protection of the common external borders are in the interests of all european citizens. i therefore hope that the romanian and bulgarian citizens will soon be able to enjoy the benefits of the schengen area.
recent events have shown us that we urgently need a european approach to the management of schengen borders. in this respect, the reform of frontex is fundamental and must be supported. one of the areas where frontex has suffered the most is the protection of fundamental rights, security guarantees and the protection of migrants. i believe that the compromise text brings substantial improvements in this area. the most important thing is that these new rules are correctly applied and hence the need for transparency on the part of frontex towards the european parliament. i also think it is important that frontex will be responsible for carrying out risk analyses at the external borders. in practice, these risk analyses will enable us to have objective and accurate data on the real problems that exist in the schengen area. in this way, we will avoid the strictly political and subjective assessments that are currently taking place in the case of romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area.
madam president, one merit of the report is that it underlines the need for solidarity with the frontier countries of the eu. better management is provided by strengthening the external borders of the eu through solidarity and trust, rather than by carving into those borders by denying access to schengen. the main handicap of this instrument seems to be its total dependence on the means provided by the member states when needed, making it a prisoner to their scarcity, political calculus or simply goodwill. rather, to be fully operational, frontex would need a minimal permanent capacity to intervene, like a rapid reaction force supplied by the member states through rotation. finally, with regard to involving frontex in the processing of personal data, while linking frontex up with other relevant institutions is inevitable, its role should be limited, strictly regulated and properly monitored.
in writing. the new frontex regulation is the most important reform of the legislation that created frontex in 2004 and a step forward for the future of the eu's external borders. the consolidation of the eu's external borders cannot be done at the level of the member states. through frontex, all member states will be able to participate in external border operations and actively promote the principle of burden-sharing on immigration and asylum. we must not lose sight of the importance of showing solidarity with those member states that are under migratory pressure. the creation of european border guard teams is another important step. this new external border service will mobilise border guards designated by the member states for joint operations. i hope that frontex's actions will be more visible in the future and i stress the importance of increasing frontex's budget for 2012 in view of the new tasks arising from this new regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the reform of frontex is very important in order to correct the shortcomings identified in its work so far, but also to give it new powers and resources. one of the most important aspects of this new regulation is to improve the agency's protection of the fundamental rights of immigrants. from this point of view, the most important issues are the introduction of special training for agents, the establishment of a code of conduct, but also the obligation for frontex agents to comply with european rules when undertaking operations outside the eu territory. i also think that it is a very important step forward that frontex will be entrusted with carrying out risk analyses at the external borders, as these risk analyses will allow an objective assessment of the real problems that exist in the schengen states. finally, i believe that the next logical step in the evolution of frontex should be the creation of an eu border surveillance system, the implementation of which should not be delayed.
in writing. - new rules for the european border protection agency, frontex, are a necessity in the new context of the arab spring, with the immigration problem becoming increasingly serious. as with all other external action, we decided in the ep that respect for human rights, one of the eu's basic principles, was essential. that's why i've listed the conditions for violating that principle. the question of efficiency was also a major part of our negotiations. the new rules therefore require frontex to have its own logistical resources, which it can lease or purchase, without being dependent on the involvement of the member states. i consider the frontex review to be an important step in protecting the union's borders, but also a guarantee that our actions will be under the aegis of respect for human rights.
in writing. − the european parliament has made a significant contribution through its amendments, as it has succeeded in creating the position of 'human rights officer' and a 'human rights advisory council'. this contribution is all the more important as, under the new rules, frontex missions can be suspended in the event of human rights violations. in this context, frontex will develop codes of conduct to ensure respect for human rights in all operations coordinated by the agency, including in the return/return operations of persons.
in writing. − it is a fairly technical and sector-specific report on commercial operations in the area of products for civil and military use. even if parliament's margin of manoeuvre is limited, we can oblige the commission to inform parliament at regular intervals about the operation of the system and to present reports assessing the effects of the new regulation.
in writing. - i voted for this report because it concerns certain regulations which were mainly concerned with transitional measures linked to the enlargement process of the union. in this way, we are updating, simplifying and condensing existing european legislation.
in writing. − the european union's environmental policy is based on the precautionary principle and the principle of preventive action, the principle of priority of remediation of environmental damage at source and the 'polluter pays' principle. environmental effects must be taken into account as early as possible in all technical planning and decision-making processes. i believe that the authorisation of public and private projects which may have significant effects on the environment should be granted only after a prior assessment of the possible effects of these projects on the environment has been carried out. the evaluation should be carried out on the basis of appropriate information provided by the project initiator, which may be supplemented by the authorities and by persons who may be involved in the project. certain types of projects have significant effects on the environment and should generally be the subject of systematic evaluations. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the modalities of access to the regulated public service (prs) provided by the global satellite navigation system built under the galileo programme because i believe that a detailed legal framework is needed for the regulations on access to the prs and for the management and monitoring of users, in order to guarantee the security of the system and the protection of information. the prs service is one of the cornerstones of the galileo programme and will guarantee continuity of service and security, even in severe crisis situations. they also agree that the security mechanism proposed by the commission provides the necessary balance between the definition of common minimum standards and enforcement at eu level on the one hand and the decentralisation of the oversight function currently carried out by the member states on the other. last but not least, i support the introduction of a precise procedure for cases where a competent prs authority does not comply with the common minimum standards and i believe that this procedure should aim at ensuring compliance with these standards throughout the eu.
in writing. − satellite navigation applications are increasingly used by individuals, businesses and the public sector. the services offered go beyond the familiar realm of driving cars: police, emergency services, transport, electricity supply, etc. the eu certainly needs an independent satellite navigation infrastructure to ensure the continuous and secure provision of such services. of the five components of the european satellite navigation system, the prs - or regulated public service - is the key. it requires a high level of accuracy and reliability. it is therefore appropriate to prepare the framework for the entry into force of the prs in 2014 by implementing early monitoring mechanisms to ensure compliance with the safety standards specific to sensitive areas. in addition to the issue of compliance with security rules, member states have to solve another problem, namely whether or not users have to pay for using the prs, since member states will bear the operational costs of the prs.
in writing. - illegal logging is a widespread phenomenon, with an area of original forest the size of greece disappearing every year. the european regulation lays down the obligations of operators placing timber and timber products on the market. suppliers must be identifiable throughout the production or marketing chain, and sanctions imposed by member states must go as far as confiscation of the timber or products and even immediate suspension of the marketing authorisation.
in writing. − the european union and switzerland have defined their relations in bilateral treaties in various fields. switzerland is thus the eu's fourth largest trading partner, with significant exports and imports of agricultural products between the two partners. although the agriculture agreement was concluded in 1999 and entered into force on 1 june 2002, it did not allow for complete free trade in agricultural products, but only partial liberalisation of certain agricultural sectors. both parties agreed to adopt a harmonised procedure for the designation and effective protection of registered designations of origin and geographical indications. as a result of a common understanding and convergence of their domestic legislation, the two sides have mutually recognised a number of protected agricultural products. this represents a substantial improvement over the trading conditions of the past.
in writing. − as a businessman, i know and recognise the importance of auditing, i support the idea that there is a need for better communication between auditors and financial supervisors and that there is a need for a european market for credit institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that auditors have an important role to play in improving the supervision of financial institutions, especially in the context of the financial crisis. at the same time, situations where auditors provide different services to the same company should be avoided in order to prevent conflicts of interest. i also believe that the european commission's carrying out of a detailed audit market analysis and the integration of the european group of auditors' supervisory bodies into the european system of financial supervision are two proposals that could hold european auditors accountable.
in writing. - auditors play a particularly important role in the economy. their task is to provide an opinion on the veracity and accuracy of the audited entities' financial statements. in this respect, the independence of auditors is the overriding element of the audit environment. i believe that the rules governing auditing at european level must be simplified and we must also ensure a level playing field for all firms operating in the audit market. it is essential that significant economic operators benefit from audit services on an ongoing basis to ensure financial stability. i also believe that it is necessary to examine the possibilities of reducing the entry conditions to the audit market. this will attract as many participants as possible to the audit market and create an effective competitive environment.
in writing. − the persistence of gender stereotypes, amplified by age discrimination faced by older people in the labour market, significantly reduces older women's employment, training and promotion opportunities and is partly responsible for the increased risk of poverty among older people. in europe, economic competitiveness, prosperity and inclusion depend on its ability to concretely improve the use of its labour force, not only by extending working life, but also by creating working conditions and social security systems that support improved working and living conditions and are profitable for the economy. equal opportunities education from an early age, career guidance policies and policies to promote women's employment are also effective ways of tackling this type of discrimination once and for all. i believe that the situation of women approaching retirement age can be tackled more effectively in the open method of coordination on pensions, social inclusion, employment, changing gender stereotypes and the inclusion of women in political and economic decision-making bodies.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i supported the commission's initiative to declare 2012 the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. i think the national laws should be changed to have survivor's pensions for widows. we also need better child and elder care services, including in the home, where we can include older women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i would like to stress the importance of the subject. the subject is topical in romania - the member state from which they come - and new and ambitious solutions are needed to tackle the problem. i believe that women working in agriculture need special attention and i call on the romanian authorities to urgently implement the measures on early retirement of farmers under the national rural development programme.
in writing. − europe has the highest proportion of older women in the world, and the employment rate for women aged 55-64 was 37.8% in 2009, compared with 54.8% for men of the same age. member states should include older women in lifelong learning, develop and support on an ongoing basis flexible retraining programmes tailored to older women and pass on the experience and knowledge gained to younger generations. the commission and the member states should ensure that disadvantages faced by women in the labour market, in particular those arising from caring responsibilities, do not lead to women being penalised in terms of pension or other social security rights. member states should encourage the active participation of older women in business, support women starting a new business and facilitate women's access to finance, in particular through microcredit, as well as equal representation of women and men in economic decision-making bodies.
in writing. − the objective of this report is to promote the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and ensuring a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. to facilitate access to mediation as a viable alternative to the traditional adversarial approach and to ensure that parties who have resorted to mediation in the eu benefit from a predictable framework legislation, this report introduces common principles that address civil procedure issues in particular. i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the importance of establishing common standards for access to the profession of mediator, with a view to promoting better quality mediation and ensuring high standards of professional training and accreditation in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour because one of the key objectives of european union policy is to ensure improved access to justice, with a view to establishing an area of freedom, security and justice. the objective of directive 2008/52/ec is to promote the amicable settlement of disputes by encouraging the use of mediation and ensuring a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. to facilitate access to mediation as a viable alternative to the traditional adversarial approach and to ensure that parties who have resorted to mediation in the european union benefit from a predictable framework legislation, the directive introduces common principles addressing in particular civil procedural issues. as demonstrated by the positive results in the union countries that have encouraged this out-of-court dispute settlement, such as italy, bulgaria and romania, mediation adapts processes to the needs of the parties, is characterised by a cost-effectiveness advantage and, above all, by speed - a key advantage especially in member states whose judicial systems are overburdened.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal amending council regulation no 378/2007 by adding a provision on implementing acts. the treaty of lisbon abolished the former comitology system, based on the classical comitology procedures and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is now replaced by a two-tier structure comprising delegated and implementing acts (the first category includes parliament's veto) which allows the commission to exercise its implementing powers. the current body of legislation must therefore be aligned with this new legal reality. i hope that the amendments concerning the assistance of the commission by the committee on rural development and the committee on agricultural funds will prove stimulating for ec work in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by reinhard butikofer on an effective raw materials strategy for europe because it is clear that european industry is currently facing a delicate situation with regard to the supply of raw materials. these resources are crucial to the eu's transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy. i believe that the rapporteur's proposal to set up a european working group on raw materials, comprising all the directorates-general concerned, can have a positive impact and is an effective measure, and that this working group should develop priority actions on the management of essential elements and ensure strategic cohesion. i believe that the challenge we face today must be turned into an opportunity to reinvigorate europe's industrial power by harnessing our research, development and innovation potential. it is therefore essential to maintain a leading global competitiveness position and to adopt an industrial innovation strategy to make resource use and recycling processes more efficient.
in writing. − recently, commodity markets have been characterised by increased volatility and large price variations. prices of raw materials have increased significantly in recent years and have reached historical highs for some products, putting european industries in a difficult situation. i believe that the european raw materials strategy must aim at ensuring the supremacy and competitiveness of the european union's economies. unfortunately, the european union is heavily dependent on imports and in the coming period we will have to focus on intensifying innovation in the means of using raw materials. by harnessing our innovation, research and development potential, the raw materials challenge can be turned into an opportunity to reinvigorate europe's industrial power.
in writing. − financial and commodity markets are closely interdependent, both in the european and international context, with increasing numbers of participants pursuing risk-mitigation instruments and new investment objectives. the increase in the flow of financial investment in recent years has influenced, among other things, the prices of raw materials, electricity and foodstuffs at european level. we face limited transparency in the areas concerned, and therefore cannot present a clear analysis of the links between commodity prices and financial instrument markets. increasing the level of transparency and access to information in physical markets would allow investors to better understand the areas concerned and would lead to a limitation of abuses. in agriculture, better coordination between local, regional and national authorities can help improve the quality of food stock information, production and consumption capacity forecasts. i would like to draw attention to the importance of investing in agriculture in less developed regions, so as not to lose control of the unjustified food price developments.
in writing. − the report supports raw materials diplomacy through the european external action service (eeas) to ensure europe’s industry can maintain access to vital raw materials such as those used in the hi-tech sector. a strong focus is also placed on reducing our reliance on imports by stepping up exploration and production within the eu (including research into better clean technologies) where possible- it also calls for recycling and re-use and a gradual ban on waste landfill, while at the same time advocating reopening old landfill sites to extract valuable scrap metal and raw materials. the eu’s raw materials strategy must be efficient and fair, respecting the right of developing countries to benefit from their natural resources. it is also an opportunity for the eu to boost its internal industry, recycle more and be more efficient. the report adopted also makes clear that trade and development policies should go hand in hand and old colonialist approaches are unacceptable; agreements with third countries and the eu should include clauses on human rights, labour standards and corporate and social responsibility.
in writing. − managing fisheries in the black sea is extremely difficult because only two of the six countries that have access to the black sea are eu member states. much of the black sea's problems are due to the lack of an appropriate institutional structure to coordinate and ensure fisheries management at a professional and specialised level. i encourage the creation of a common political mechanism for the six countries bordering the black sea, to ensure, among other things, environmental protection and to facilitate the economic and social development of coastal areas. this new policy mechanism for the black sea should aim to preserve and enhance biodiversity, as well as the prosperity of people working in the fisheries sector in the area. i voted in favour of this report because the black sea should take its rightful place among the main marine areas in europe, given that it is the youngest and most dynamic of the semi-enclosed seas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs iotova's report because i consider it extremely important to institutionalize the coordination of fisheries in the black sea basin. an integrated maritime policy will ensure effective cooperation in order to improve the situation of fisheries resources in this area. the management of fisheries in the black sea is currently particularly difficult. of the six countries that have an outlet to this basin, only romania and bulgaria are eu member states, often at a disadvantage compared to their neighbours, russia and turkey. in this context, the eu needs to make the most efficient use of both diplomatic and financial instruments to strengthen cooperation between all those involved in fisheries. i support the idea of the black sea basin being given an appropriate status in community policies. they also support the creation of a regional body for the management of fisheries in the black sea.
in writing. - i supported and voted in favour of this report. the situation in the black sea fisheries was to be regulated in the interests of coordination. it's not just the ecological balance, it's the livelihood of the fishermen. i agree that, given the concrete situation that the resources of the black sea are shared between six states, the best formulas are partnership and joint long-term management plans. it should be borne in mind that romania and bulgaria have a relatively small share of the fishing fleet and catches compared to russia and turkey. in addition, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing should be covered by the new framework. it is the commission's role to involve turkey, georgia, the russian federation and ukraine in this process.
in writing. − the decision to vote in favour of the resolution containing a new strategy for the maintenance of the black sea fish stocks came naturally, given that the improvement of the marine ecosystem is of direct concern to us as a country bordering the black sea. the european union, the world's second-largest fisheries power, needs to maintain this status by better addressing pollution and the effects of climate change on fish stocks. as the report also states, this goal can only be achieved through good cooperation between the black sea basin states, despite the fact that many of them are not eu members. if we are to prosper from the resources of the black sea, the european community will have to allocate funds to help develop the fisheries sector, but also to promote cooperation at diplomatic and scientific level to achieve favourable results. the proposal to create a body to synchronise the fisheries policies of countries with an opening to the black sea can open the way to better promoting the european community's attitude on this subject.
in writing. − many of the problems in the black sea are caused by the lack of an appropriate institutional structure to manage black sea fisheries at a professional and specialised level. according to the european parliament, a separate regional organisation for the management of fisheries in the black sea could promote long-term communication between scientific institutes and professional organisations of fishermen, producers and processors to solve problems and develop cooperation in the black sea. the resolution adopted today welcomes the european commission's efforts to set up working groups with russia and turkey, but stresses the need to involve countries such as ukraine and georgia.
in writing. - i welcome the report drawn up by mrs iotova and would like to highlight a number of very important points which deserve the full attention of the european parliament. in any discussion of fishing in the black sea, the interests of all the coastal countries, not just the interests of the eu member states, must be taken into account. it is the only way to bring all these countries together at the negotiating table, which is imperative to identify the most appropriate solutions to the problems we face. the report rightly points out that there is a need to create a separate body for the management of fisheries in the black sea and to improve bilateral dialogue with countries such as russia and turkey.
in writing. − domestic oil and gas sources make a significant contribution to meeting europe's current energy needs and are now essential for our energy security and diversity. offshore activity is increasing in areas adjacent to the eu territory, which are not subject to the provisions of eu legislation, but where any incident could have consequences for the eu territory. this is to ensure, at the highest level, the safety and integrity of oil and gas exploration operations and the protection of citizens. different regulatory mechanisms in the member states create serious difficulties in ensuring the integrity of safety measures on a consistent basis, impose an additional financial burden on undertakings and hamper the proper functioning of the internal market. finally, the effectiveness of legislation depends on how well it is implemented by the national and european authorities and bodies responsible for the application, management and implementation of the relevant legislation.
in writing. - i support our colleague's proposals without being an expert in this field. i support them because if over 90% of european oil and over 60% of european gas is produced by offshore operations - most of it in the north sea - there is clearly a need for risk assessment before any drilling is undertaken. i support and voted in favour of the idea of a forum of the mediterranean, the baltic and the black seas to carry out multinational audit projects.
in writing. − the report emphasises very strongly the need to implement in the national legislation of each member state a package of laws to monitor the exploitation of gas and oil resources in the seas of the european union. these measures are necessary to ensure both the smooth running of the fuel market, which continues to thrive even in times of crisis, and the safety and well-being of european citizens. i believe that the provisions of this report are of major importance in instructing member states on the measures to be taken, both individually and collectively, in the event of ecological disasters which do not take account of the land or sea borders of a state. the need for an independent body to monitor regularly the efficiency and proper functioning of oil companies and the preventive measures taken by them has strengthened my conviction that this report is a comprehensive one that addresses and clarifies issues related to the transport of oil and the exploitation of gas fields in the marine domain. i also welcome both the report's initiative to create a safer environment for the worker who is constantly exposed to environmental factors harmful to his health and the plan proposed for the arrangements for financial compensation in the event of an accident at work.
in writing. − this report has been drafted in the light of a commission communication and in anticipation of a legislative proposal expected in late 2011 looking at how, following the major bp oil spill in the us last year, the eu should best react to ensure that no such incident can affect eu waters. the regional groupings which are already working well, such as the north sea offshore authorities forum, should be replicated in other areas such as the mediterranean. the report also calls for regular, vigorous and independent third-party verification of safety procedures, including before drilling can start. it calls for all information on safety incidents to be made public and transparent, for the european maritime safety agency to be given a greater coordinating role in the event of an accident. it shies away from backing a new eu agency to oversee offshore oil and gas safety, but instead suggests that a body bringing together national regulators could provide added value at eu level. i support the specific point on ensuring that elected safety representatives should be elected and involved at all levels of operation and decision-making, as well as the paragraph calling on eu companies to respect at least minimum eu standards when operating in third countries, with the commission examining which mechanisms might help implement this.
in writing. − female entrepreneurship provides a key source of increased female employment and is a way to make better use of women's educational level and to ensure that they are not automatically reserved for precarious jobs. i encourage member states to implement policies that enable women to achieve an appropriate work-life balance and to create appropriate childcare structures, as the high level of their rates, the lack of available places and the low quality create additional obstacles for women who intend to become entrepreneurs. the potential of female entrepreneurship is far from being exploited to a sufficient level in the european union, given that the increase in the number of women entrepreneurs has positive consequences for the economy as a whole and an immediate contribution to it.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is essential to recognise and assist women's skills in the workplace. this will encourage women to advance in a business environment that is equitable and gender-neutral. we all know that the problems faced by women vary from one nation to another. some countries provide more support than others, and differences in the role of women influence the chances of women setting up a business. i agree that sharing good practice would be a positive step. but first of all, we need to know who the women entrepreneurs are, how many there are and what they do. there should be a union-wide collection of data in this area and these should be analysed.
in writing. − there are discrepancies between member states in the number of women entrepreneurs, with a lower tendency to consider entrepreneurship as a viable career option. despite the increase in the number of female entrepreneurs leading smes in the eu, only one in 10 women is an entrepreneur, compared to one in 4 men. women represent about 60% of the total number of university graduates, but in the labour market they are underrepresented among full-time workers, especially in the entrepreneurial field. it is essential to provide incentives and means to enable women to start entrepreneurial projects in order to reduce the existing inequalities between women and men. the european commission and member states need to make better use of the funding opportunities available to women entrepreneurs through special subsidies, social security provisions and interest rate reductions, allowing for fair and equal access to finance. member states should encourage banking and financial institutions to consider setting up 'women-friendly' business support services, to pay particular attention to the situation of women over 50 and to help them set up their own companies.
energy market integrity and transparency is a key instrument for the completion of the internal energy market by 2014. we must bear in mind that the emergence of abuses in the energy market in a particular member state can have consequences for the whole of the european union. i reiterate that energy liberalisation must first and foremost benefit consumers, stimulate investment and not generate wealth overnight, as has happened in some member states, such as romania. it should be borne in mind that the fundamental purpose of the european energy market is to offer consumers lower prices by stimulating competition. the european regulatory agency must play an important role in preventing market abuse and manipulation that causes the consumer market to grow and in helping to inform european citizens about their rights in a competitive market. i would stress that the national regulatory authorities must accept communication and cooperation with acer.
the energy market is not only trans-european but also regional. energy markets in the european union are increasingly crossing national borders and this is likely to increase strongly in the coming period. unfortunately, the system governing energy market transparency and market abuse has created significant gaps in the applicable rules and the level of transparency. i believe we need consistent rules at european level and a mechanism that allows the authorities to access information from across the union in order to understand in depth the evolution of the market. i would, however, recommend that account be taken of the fact that european energy markets are organised in regional groupings and i believe that we must continue to pay greater attention to the specificities of national and regional markets in order to ensure the proper application of legislative rules.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. firstly, the regulation is a step forward. i am not going to say that everything in the regulation has proved to be 100% practical in ten years. we're about to start a real-life test. we believe that we have proposed the right measures and will report to you acer with the respective progress reports, we as the commission if and where any improvements, any amendment of this law, the regulation, and the instruments still need to be improved and the measures optimized. the question was asked: why do you need your own agency? we have not deliberately proposed an agency of our own, but we have entrusted this complementary competence to the agency for cooperation with national regulators, which was set up in march, acer , because there is a lot of overlap between acer's previous activities and the new tasks. if we did not give acer the task, it would either have to be done by national regulators alone - then the bundling and also the harmonization of sanctions and so on would be done away with - or the commission would have to work with the directorate-general. but the directorates-general have a management function, a control function, but not the function of day-to-day processing. thirdly, i am as sensitive as you are to the question: what staffing levels are needed to achieve full employment? what material resources do we need to operate? what it equipment do we need? i want the agency to get to work. as soon as we know more about the workload, we will be happy to approach parliament to ensure that the agency can meet all its workloads and control densities in a few years' time, either by reshuffling or by re-approving posts. the question of setting up branches, liaison offices, was raised. we have told the agency - its boards, its director, its supervisory bodies - that you should decide how you organise yourselves. i cannot imagine that we have a branch in every capital city of a member state. we shall be happy to report on whether and where to do so at the next opportunity. but i'm very reluctant to suggest outposts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the question can be asked again: has the internal market with competition and transparency been useful for electricity and gas? it was created in this parliament 15 years ago. europe is built on the basic principle of a market economy. the internal market, alongside the union of peace, is a principle of the european idea, without barriers to trade, without frontiers, with competition and transparency: an internal market for food, for vehicles, for white goods, for brown goods, for goods, goods and services in every respect. europe has benefited from the single market and its trade agreements with third countries. i believe that the single market is the right basis for economic activity. it is therefore logical in principle that not only coal and oil, which have been products of the internal market for many decades, but also electricity and gas should be subject to the rules of the internal market. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it would be a bureaucratic event, a monster. in addition, it is only within the internal market that we can tackle common targets for co2 reduction or renewable energy. and solidarity can only take place in the internal market, through the member states. so it is not a question of whether the single market is right - it is right - but of whether it can be applied and not abused. i therefore believe that today is a decisive step towards putting the internal market on a sound, trustworthy footing and to eliminate market abuse and thus, in effect, attacks on the internal market and the advantages of market participants as far as possible, as is also being done successfully with other services in europe. i would like to thank you again for your constructive comments and cooperation over the last six months. if you decide in parliament tomorrow, we will implement what you have decided immediately.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner oettinger, i would like to thank you for your work. i think that this debate has shown the importance that all of us, all the institutions, attach to the introduction of instruments to strengthen the functioning of the common energy market. we are in the very important but difficult process of building the internal market, and it is a process, not an individual event, and we must all remember that. i think that the time taken to reach a compromise between the institutions is particularly important, especially in an area as sensitive as the energy market and in a time as turbulent as the present. of course, we are always faced with the dilemma of whether to seek the perfect solution or to proceed quickly. i think it's important that we do this quickly and well, especially today. in this context, i would like to respond to a number of concerns raised by mr goebbels, mr turmes, mr swoboda, mr paksas and others, for example, about the sanctions regime. we have, in the form of an annex to the text of the regulation, a joint declaration by the institutions that we will work together to strengthen this system in the future. i would also like to state on behalf of the presidency, but also on behalf of the member states of the council, that we will be working very intensively on delegated and implementing acts in the comitology process. a number of voices, such as those of mrs cizelj and mr turmes, have called for acer to have the necessary resources to be an effective instrument for implementing this regulation, and i fully share that view. like commissioner oettinger, i hope that the regulation we are discussing today will be seen in the future as a milestone in the construction of the energy market, the construction of a market which is transparent, friendly to our consumers and friendly to our businesses.
in writing. romania has experienced such abusive practices and their negative effects. benefiting from preferential and non-transparent contracts, some companies were able to buy energy at very low prices, only to sell it back at prices up to three times higher. these measures allow the eu to move towards the single energy market and open and fair competition in wholesale trade. the competences set out in article 14 are also important, through which acer will promote the harmonisation of the regulatory framework in its relations with third parties. i would stress that the main beneficiaries are the final consumers. citizens in particular will be better protected from price volatility and the high costs of abusive practices. i hope that these measures can be implemented as soon as possible. the proper functioning of the energy market is essential for the entire economy and for the daily lives of european citizens.
acting president of the council. - mr. speaker, the house! i welcome very much the initiative of parliament to hold a debate on better legislation. this is a matter of concern to both co-legislators, the council and the parliament. i also congratulate the authors of the individual reports which have fuelled today's debate. it is particularly encouraging that the house attaches such importance to the promotion of better regulation, both at european and national level. i would like to begin by saying a few words about the annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law prepared by mrs eva lichtenberger. a few words, because the commission, not the council, is primarily responsible for such controls. the council certainly shares many of the concerns raised in this report and they do not concern only the fact that european law is too often violated, just as we too often have to deal with delays in the transposition process. it should also be borne in mind that it is the commission which should exercise the primary control and, if necessary, request clarifications from the member states. i am sure that commissioner and vice-president šefčovič will want to develop this topic in his speech. in his report on better regulation, subsidiarity, proportionality and smart regulation, mr sajjad karim rightly points out that the commission is seeking to ensure that smart regulation plays a more central role in european policy-making through the smart regulation communication. the council fully shares the favourable opinion expressed in this report on the new smart regulation agenda. in its conclusions of 30 may 2011, the council underlined the importance of boosting competitiveness and growth. this is an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy. we believe that by focusing on the whole legislative process, a more comprehensive approach to better regulation will be possible. it will also make it possible to link more closely the needs of society to the actions of legislators. of course, as co-legislators, we're all working toward the same goals. the challenges we face are often the same. we are to legislate in a way that improves the lives of our citizens, contributes to their well-being and promotes economic growth. in our activities, we often have to strike a balance between different and often difficult commitments. this means that legislation at european level is perhaps more often the result of a compromise than national legislation. a compromise does not always guarantee that the resulting result will be as clear and concise as desired. if we are to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, if we are to take account of the principle of 'think small first', if we want our work to lead to a reduction in administrative burdens and at the same time to more transparent legislation, we must have a high degree of self-discipline. the crucial moment comes when meps prepare amendments for the commission and ministers present their countries' positions and positions to the council. it is at this very moment when we work in committees and in council meetings that we should be particularly mindful of our objectives in the area of better regulation. mr. speaker, the house of lords! i would also like to say a few words about the report by mrs judith sargentini, who has completed the work started by mrs heidi hautalla. this report is about public access to documents and transparency. both reports contain many interesting suggestions. that's the key point. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights, access to documents has become a fundamental right of every citizen of the union and of every person residing or established in a member state. what is the situation in the council (since various types of complaints are often made against the council)? by the end of 2010, the council's public register of documents contained more than 1.5 million documents. over 75% of these documents could have been made public. this represents an increase of around 12% in the number of documents directly made available by the register compared to 2009. as regards requests for public access, the council secretariat examined more than 9 000 documents in 2010. in over 70% of cases, a decision was taken to allow access to the entire document. two commission proposals for the revision of regulation 1049/2001 from 2008 and 2011 respectively are currently underway. we are following the work in parliament on these two motions very closely so that we can respond when parliament adopts its position. we are currently in preliminary discussions on the 2011 proposal. we hope that we will soon be able to agree on a general approach, which will facilitate dialogue with parliament. our overriding objective is to work constructively with the state in order to achieve our objective of adopting the amended regulation. it's in the interest of the whole community and the common good.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i will do my best to react as quickly as possible to the three reports, which have been presented to the plenary, and also to mr szpunar’s remarks on behalf of the polish presidency. first, i would like to state my clear appreciation of the three reports that we are debating today. it is important that the institutions work together on these topics, which are so important if we want to make eu legislative and political action more transparent, more accessible and more useful for citizens. as for better legislation, subsidiarity and proportionality, and smart regulation, i am very happy to learn that mr karim’s report supports our agenda and underlines the shared responsibility of the eu institutions in this area. smart regulation is a key priority for the commission and we have an ambitious smart regulation agenda with clearly defined priorities. the commission remains committed to further improving the quality of its initiatives and to evaluating existing legislation, as well as continuing to reduce administrative burdens and simplifying wherever possible. for example, the commission is on track to exceed its target of 25% of administrative burden reductions by 2012. we now need to ensure that this translates into concrete benefits for businesses through the adoption of relevant legislation by the council and parliament and by effective implementation in the member states. the delivery of this target by 2012 must be our common priority within a broader approach to legislation to make it more efficient and effective. to this end, we also make thorough use of impact assessments in the commission. another key tool in this new approach will be the systematic ex-post evaluation of the legislation. the commission has therefore merged its efforts to reduce administrative burdens with those to simplify and to evaluate legislation. finally, the commission welcomes an open discussion on the responsibility of the three institutions in delivering smart regulation. we need to ensure that all three institutions show a commitment to making real progress. they should start by making the best use of existing instruments. therefore, the commission calls for the full implementation of the current interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. turning now to the application of eu law, i would first like to thank members for the preparatory work on our annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law. as the current interinstitutional talks on correlation tables demonstrate, the commission and parliament attach great importance to the current application of eu law. i appreciate the opportunity to have an exchange of views on a regular basis on this subject. i would also like to use this opportunity to thank the polish presidency and mr szpunar for his personal involvement and commitment to resolving the issue we are discussing now concerning correlation tables and explanatory information from the member states to the commission so that we can do our work better in the future. with regard to the issues raised in ms lichtenberger’s report, i would like to highlight the following points. in 2007, we announced that we would improve and intensify our collaboration with the member states. therefore, in 2008, we introduced the eu pilot project and i am happy to say that nearly all member states are participating. this instrument is an early-warning and problem-solving tool vis-à-vis member states in many cases. it does not replace the infringement procedure but helps to resolve a lot of cases. those that cannot be resolved are of course put into the infringement procedure. the eu pilot gives full and quick effect to union law for the benefit of citizens and businesses. as i am sure we will discuss later today, petitions to parliament are key in identifying citizens’ concerns. the annual report analyses in detail the nature of petitions and gives concrete examples where they have also triggered infringement procedures. in order to improve the follow-up to complaints, we have set up an effective complaint registration system. i am confident that the system meets the concerns previously spelled out by parliament and the ombudsman. it allows the rapid treatment of incoming complaints and gives swift information to the complainants about any major step decided by the commission. the lisbon treaty has strengthened the role of the commission with regard to the late transposition of directives by the member states. in 2010, the commission explained publicly the concrete ways in which it will apply these new powers. this was communicated to the other institutions as well. we are confident that this contributes to putting further pressure on member states to improve their performance in this field. last but not least, ms sargentini’s report clearly shows the importance of public access to documents as a central element of the transparency of the work of the institutions. the report contains useful suggestions which the commission will duly take into consideration. in particular, the commission agrees that the information should be made available to the public in a proactive manner whenever possible. the commission has already made significant efforts in this respect. for example, information and documents on comitology committees and on expert groups are available through dedicated websites. the commission also provides information on beneficiaries of eu funds, both under central and shared management, and for the latter information on beneficiaries of funds is accessible through a portal providing links with national websites. of course, the commission shares parliament’s wish to improve the interoperability of the public registers, and we still have a lot of work to do on this, but the commission takes note of the rapporteur’s comments concerning the ongoing legislative procedure on a recast of the access to documents regulation. however, this debate cannot replace the ongoing legislative process. in this regard let me underline that our proposal for a recast does not reduce the level of transparency. our estimation is that the same number of requests for access would be granted. our proposal merely aims at clarifying a number of provisions and at facilitating the application of the regulation. the commission agrees with the rapporteur that some changes to the regulation are made necessary by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, most importantly the extension of the citizen’s right to access the documents of all eu institutions and bodies. this would include, for example, the european council and the eas. for this reason, the commission decided last march to submit a second proposal to align the existing regulation to the treaty. our objective with the second proposal is to give citizens the rights the treaty has created for them, and to do so as quickly as possible without waiting for the conclusion of the discussions on the wider recast proposal. the commission therefore invites parliament and the council to adopt quickly the proposal aligning the regulations to the treaty and, in parallel, we will continue our discussions on the wider recast proposal. we look forward to relaunching the legislative process. in this context, debate should focus on the core issues, such as the definition of the ‘space to think’ within the institutions and the balance between the protection of personal data and the right of access to documents, which have been rightly highlighted by the rapporteur. other issues such as classification rules or historical archives should not be addressed in this context, but rather in specific fora. to conclude, i would like to repeat the commission’s appreciation of these three reports, which contain very useful observations and suggestions. i now look forward to deepening this debate with you and i thank you in advance for your remarks.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, a few months ago this house endorsed a set of key measures to relaunch the single market, and i strongly believe that the ambitious goals we have set will be impossible to achieve without ensuring proper application of eu law. i would like to congratulate ms lichtenberger on the good work that she has done. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection was happy to see that some progress has been made in some areas, such as late transposition of directives or the improvement in the functioning of solvit. however, a lot more remains to be done to ensure that businesses and citizens fully benefit from the single market. member states should incentivise their responsible government departments to ensure timely transposition. correlation tables are another useful tool that would contribute to a better transposition process, and i really hope that member states will show their commitment to proper implementation by accepting to draw up such tables. infringement procedures need to be shorter and more transparent so that citizens remain fully informed about the follow-up to their requests, and we should continue to support and develop problem-solving tools like solvit and eu pilot.
on behalf of the epp group. this report focuses on the commission's fundamental role as guardian of the treaties and points out that, despite a decline in the number of infringement cases opened by the commission, the committee on petitions had to deal with some 2 900 complaints and infringement cases at the end of 2009, and member states still experienced delays in transposing directives in more than half of the cases. the commission should make the procedures for infringements of existing union law more transparent and inform citizens of the measures taken following their request as quickly and appropriately as possible. the rapporteur's approach of asking the commission to propose a procedural code in the form of a regulation, on the basis of the new legal basis of article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is correct and i support it. it is regrettable that too many infringement procedures of union law take a long time to close or to be brought before the court. for this reason, member states and the commission should step up their efforts to resolve cases of infringement. the commission's establishment of a hierarchy of priority for infringements of union law in different sectors would be welcomed. we note that there is still a high number of cases of infringements of union law due to the delayed transposition of directives. timely transposition of eu directives is essential for the smooth functioning of the single market, to the benefit of consumers and businesses across the union. in this context, i welcome the request made by the commission, by the rapporteur, to continue promoting best practice in the transposition of legislation in the field of the single market.
i will begin by stressing once again the importance and the special role of the committee on petitions in guaranteeing and defending the rights of european citizens when they are infringed by an authority of a member state or a european authority. and we, the meps elected by the citizens of our union, have the right and the duty to defend them. i would like to highlight two important aspects of the debate on the meyer report. firstly, i regret that, despite a large number of petitions concerning serious violations of the human rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, the european commission either refuses or explains, on the pretext of lack of instruments, that it cannot act. i quote from the report of the venice commission on the hungarian constitution: once ratified, the charter of fundamental rights is a legal, binding piece of legislation, which is not yet obvious to the european commission. secondly, as regards european environmental legislation, the european commission should monitor more closely and act accordingly to ensure that all european acts and legislation are respected and implemented, and this must be done at all stages of project development, not just when they have been implemented. i would like to draw the attention of the european commission to the gigantic project under development in romania, roşia montană. i take this opportunity to thank once again my colleague meyer for his excellent cooperation, as well as all the members of the committee on petitions.
i too would like to congratulate my colleague mr meyer on his work on this report, which contains the main recommendations for the future work of the committee on petitions. i draw attention to the essential problem affecting its efficiency, namely the lack of information to the citizens. in 2010, the number of petitions to parliament decreased and many were declared inadmissible. the transparency that parliament needs is largely provided by the committee on petitions. measures to promote citizens' initiatives should therefore be adopted. this would provide the necessary support for future legislative initiatives. i would like to stress the commission's role in implementing the charter of fundamental rights in the eu. this complement to the acquis has a direct impact on citizens. monitoring its application guarantees an improvement in living conditions at european level.
the commission's vice-president - i think that a very interesting way of developing this subject is to work with clusters. we have about 2000 clusters in europe. it's a more modern system to integrate business, industry and academia. we can thus appeal to our young people as researchers and students, but also as young people starting work in a company. in the cluster we have a project and a goal, in which we can call on the most competent young people from the university, who will start working in research, more specifically applied research. we'll send a message of confidence to these young people who are starting out in the company. i'm very committed to this issue. we are also in the process of organising - we have already discussed this with the maltese government - a symposium in malta on clusters, training and young people, before the communication on clusters which we will present early next year, with a view to also giving young people their first jobs in companies.
my question is also addressed to commissioner andor. the new economy is characterized by numerous e-activities, such as e-education, e-medicine, e-commerce and so on. it's good that we pay attention to them, but e-activities cannot replace all the activities in a society. mining, agriculture, steel, for example, will modernize a lot in the new economy, even if they're going to be missing the letter "e". the new economy will be a challenge for these sectors. i would like to ask the commissioner what plans the commission has to stimulate the modernisation of the way these activities are run, for example in agriculture, in order to avoid these sectors, which we know are particularly vulnerable, being left behind.
member of the commission. − agricultural policy remains a very strong pillar of the european union. in the multiannual financial framework, which we published at the end of june, i believe we ensured that the cap will remain strong, although it also needs to respond to the new challenges of the next decade. for example, the move towards sustainability requires a kind of greening of this policy as well. we also may need to think about facilitating change, either by facilitating transition in the agricultural sector – whether towards tourism or towards other types of activities – or just by facilitating modernisation through the purchase of new equipment. rural life is being transformed for the same reasons. we thought about covering the agricultural sector more by another financial instrument, the globalisation adjustment fund. the specificities of the agricultural sector will be taken into account in the new regulation. we will think about the consequences of changing international trade patterns for this sector and try to ensure sustainability, but also provide for the necessary transition and transformations in this sector.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for his answer. i was referring to human activities in these sectors which, without being new forms of work, are so important to our societies. in particular, i would like to know some of the commissioner's thoughts on education in agriculture and other traditional trades.
smes provide some 65 million jobs in the european union and are a real source of innovation and research. unfortunately, even at european level, less than 30% of smes are engaged in cross-border transactions. how can we increase the internationalisation of european smes without relocating them to third countries? the european union is developing a new industrial and space policy, and international cooperation is becoming increasingly important. clearly, these initiatives, which are essential for job creation and the competitiveness of the european union, need adequate funding. i have asked the commission to allocate the necessary budget for gnss research. in this way, european smes will contribute to the development of services and applications based on satellite location services and to the implementation of the european space strategy internationally. it is clear that we need to promote european standards internationally. what measures does the commission envisage to increase the involvement of smes in association agreements between the european union and third countries or regions of the world, for example in the context of the eu-brazil summit on 4 october this year? commissioner, in 2009, the commission published a communication entitled 'a clean and eco-efficient economy for european citizens' which set out seven measures to create two million new jobs in the eco-efficient economy by 2020. one of these measures was to use the full potential of small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like to know, in the context of the fight against climate change, how you support the internationalisation of european smes to provide clean solutions for industrial development in third countries.
there is a direct link between internationalisation and the performance of smes. international activities strengthen growth and competitiveness and support the long-term viability of companies. however, european smes still rely heavily on internal markets, despite the opportunities brought by the expanded single market and globalisation in general. internationalisation is not limited to exports. for example, cross-border cooperation, participation in profitable networks, the search for competitive means or new technologies are important elements in the motivation of modern smes to go international. smes also need to combine different approaches in their internationalisation strategies, which are mutually supportive, both internally and internationally. i therefore stress the importance of doing business in partnership with third countries, thus ensuring access to domestic and international markets.
the question i would like to put to my colleague is: perhaps the translation was not correct, but i understood from the speech of my colleague that 84 million european citizens are homeless. so that means that one in five european citizens are homeless? ... they may be at risk of poverty, but they are not homeless.
madam president, i fully support this oral question and this resolution, because we are faced with a problem unworthy of europe, unworthy of the values we defend and unworthy of the average standard of living in europe. the crisis has considerably increased the problem of homelessness, but i think we must realize that today everyone is threatened: any european can become homeless tomorrow. the first lever we can use is, of course, the european social fund, which enables integration or reintegration into the workforce, entry into employment, adaptation to new jobs, and the return of the unemployed to employment. but beyond that - and as chair of the working group on the european social fund and progress - i would like to stress that the progress programme can and must also help us to move faster in solving this problem: firstly, preventing, but also defining indicators together to give us a real policy or approach, effective access to housing. there are good practices at european level to achieve these objectives. i believe that we all together - at the level of the commission and our working party, and in the committee on employment and social affairs with our chair, mrs berès - must know what is being done and what is working in the member states, what are the strategies that are really promising for the future and whether individual coaching, individual approach and personal monitoring can really be important elements that enable us to solve these problems unworthy of europe.
homelessness continues to be a problem across europe, with a negative impact on both homeless people and society. it is known that during the winter, large cities in the member states are faced with a shortage of places in the shelters specifically designed for homeless people. combating homelessness has become a priority, being a major part of the european strategy on social protection and social inclusion and, in particular, in the new post-lisbon strategy, europe 2020. despite progress in many member states to combat the phenomenon, support and policy coordination at european level is needed. not only does the definition of homelessness vary widely between member states, but the collection and reporting of data is also very different. the european union needs to develop a common framework to support and monitor member states in developing policies to combat homelessness. i consider prevention to be the most cost-effective way to combat homelessness. emphasis should also be placed on the integration into employment of disadvantaged groups: young people, the elderly, women, people with disabilities and minority groups. integration must also take into account aspects of family life, with special attention to disadvantaged regions and the use of the european regional development fund for the construction of social housing for disadvantaged people.
the problem of homelessness is undoubtedly a serious one which needs to be brought to the attention of national and european institutions. but i think the discussion is incomplete if we ignore another problem that is at least as serious - i am talking about the poor living conditions. according to eurostat, one in six europeans lives in overcrowded housing or faces inherent housing problems. housing problems are present in all member states. millions of europeans do not have indoor toilets or bathrooms and showers. according to a study by the french abbé pierre foundation on poverty and housing, more than 8 million french people live in precarious conditions. in these circumstances, together with a european union strategy on homelessness, i believe that a long-term policy is needed to improve the living conditions of european citizens.
the problem of homelessness has become more acute in recent years, with homeless women, families living on the streets, homeless youth and children, and workers who have lost their homes to credit default as a result of the economic and financial crisis. i would like to make a few suggestions to the commission which could provide solutions to this problem. firstly, i believe that the establishment of a european agency for persons or the supervision of homeless people could be a solution that would pursue the problem of homeless people in a european manner and with common solutions throughout europe. then, the extension and use of structural funds, such as the european social fund and the european regional development fund, to address the phenomenon of homelessness and, in particular, to build permanent housing where it is needed, following the finnish 'housing first' model, which has proven to reduce costs by eur 14 000 per assisted beneficiary. and last but not least, i suggest consulting with the homeless and the associations they belong to to work out what to do next.
over the last decade, the alarming increase in the number of homeless people and the social polarization in housing conditions have posed major challenges for european states. a prerequisite for mitigating the effects of homelessness is the coordination of strategies to address exclusion due to lack of shelter, involving national, regional and local levels, so that decisions are taken as closely as possible to the people affected. equally important is the efficient use of european funds for housing construction and their directing to social housing. campaigns such as the 'european year for combating poverty and social exclusion', which encourage the exchange of good practice, can play a key role in raising public awareness and responsibility. i would also like to draw attention to the need for national strategies for vulnerable people to improve living conditions by removing barriers to labour market participation, improving the quality of social services and increasing the supply of affordable housing.
the problem of homelessness has become more acute and diversified in recent times as a result of the economic crisis. they're particularly vulnerable. the absence of a european policy on the social integration of this category is a violation of fundamental human rights. i support the idea of adopting a strategy to improve the situation of homeless people. the eu must protect the right of all citizens to a life of dignity and to full participation in society. i would point out that exclusion generates discrimination on grounds of social belonging. it can have a strong impact on the physical and mental integrity of those affected. i believe that the allocation of structural funds at eu level is necessary to help solve this problem. the funds may be used in particular for the construction of permanent social housing.
from a strictly biological standpoint, health is not a possession of the rich, just as illness is not a possession of the poor. socially, however, this claim tends to prove untrue. of course, there are european institutions and bodies that provide healthcare to disadvantaged groups, including the homeless. sadly, however, both the quality of the medical record and the quality of the programs are not on par with those on the other side of the atlantic. perhaps this european homelessness strategy should now be reconsidered in this respect, namely the provision of health care to homeless people.
in writing. in response to the oral question put by my colleagues, i would ask the commission to give priority to prevention in the forthcoming development of an eu strategy on homelessness. homelessness is now a growing concern across europe, a phenomenon that is a consequence of the atomization of society and the breakdown of traditional small communities, in addition to obvious economic causes. the problem today is not limited to those who are confined to the margins of society because of their use of alcohol or drugs. in several eu countries, the phenomenon affects a growing middle class, many of whom have or have had a university degree or even a permanent job. they are the ones who, with a detailed strategy, with relatively small, targeted assistance, could avoid homelessness and the degradation that it causes. it is sad to say that the kind of social networking that was typical of small communities with a strong sense of solidarity a few decades ago is no longer there or has become very limited. this is why it is important that member states pay greater attention to those on the periphery.
the climate change that we are all experiencing has ecological and social consequences that ultimately affect human health through changes in the quality and quantity of water, air and food, but also through altered weather patterns, agriculture and ecosystems. it has been scientifically demonstrated that the benefits of reducing anthropogenic non-co2 emissions are felt immediately and directly in the areas where measures are taken. i'm glad that we've moved past the phase where carbon dioxide emissions were the cause of all the evils in the earth's atmosphere, and that it's finally time to act on the other factors that are as bad as carbon dioxide. as an example, the total global warming impact of the use of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) is currently estimated to be about 2% of total greenhouse gas emissions. however, it is expected that an increase in demand for hfcs could lead to a contribution of 7-13% of total greenhouse gases by 2050. as such, if we are to take the bull by the horns, the industry would need a stable legal framework quickly to encourage manufacturers to develop alternatives to hfcs. as i said, this is just one example of many possible actions in the case of reducing anthropogenic emissions. i wanted the commission's answer to the question on this subject to be concrete and firm, so that action could be taken in a relatively short time. also, because the montreal protocol has succeeded in demonstrating that it is possible to successfully reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i believe it is the most appropriate forum to regulate and reduce the production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons internationally.
the promotion of a resource-efficient, green and competitive economy is a central element of the europe 2020 strategy. eu action over the past decades has resulted in a considerable reduction in emissions of air pollutants, including sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, ammonia and particulate matter. the quality guidelines for fuels used in both road and maritime transport have made a major contribution to this reduction. directive 32/99 on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels sets the maximum permissible sulphur content for heavy fuel oil, diesel fuel and marine engines used in the union. measures on energy efficiency of buildings and waste recycling will also contribute significantly to reducing pollutant emissions. commissioner, i would like to ask you what measures you intend to take to ensure that the emissions generated by the industrial sectors are reduced, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
a paradox of our times is the need to control emissions and the trend towards increased consumption in an era of globalization. we see the devastating effects of climate change, but we hesitate to take action. the reservations in the copenhagen and cancun agreements are conclusive. we remain hopeful that future conferences will take a firm stand on this. europe is an example of initiative in the fight against climate change. i believe that the commission's role at this point is to initiate a concrete strategy for the gradual reduction of the production and consumption of pollutants. the framework programmes for research and innovation could help identify alternative solutions for the gradual replacement of current technologies with innovative clean technologies. i'm a chemical engineer; chemistry helps us a lot in our daily lives today, but it can also kill us. with discernment, we must move beyond the stage of wonderful declarations of intent and move urgently to concrete action.
in writing. i recognise that since i took office in june 2009, this is the most worrying debate i have been involved in. i listened to the representative of the polish presidency and my concern grew. i listened to the chairman of the committee and the feeling increased. both ask us to support the proposed measures before our citizens. what arguments do you have when unemployment reaches 15%? what do you say to young people who can't find work in the country and no longer have access to spain, where more than a million romanians used to work? the social market economy, the fair society are concepts that no longer mean anything to the young people of london, madrid, berlin, bucharest and, above all, athens. mr barroso was talking about credibility. i think that's the key answer. it's complicated, but it's not impossible to rebuild credibility. at the beginning of my term, i praised the president of the commission for the strength of david and the wisdom of solomon. it was, unfortunately, a kind of prophecy, my wish, broken here in strasbourg, because we all know that i, as a romanian deputy, could not be a prophet in my country, romania, which is still outside the euro zone.
in writing. most euro area countries were not in difficulty before the financial crisis, with public debt and deficits falling. on the other hand, the euro area's public debt to gdp ratio is still well below that of the united states or japan. the european union suffers not so much from a public debt problem as from a lack of fiscal and political integration. this crisis requires a european response and a common economic governance based on the community method rather than the intergovernmental method, which is deficient in terms of democracy and decision-making. in this context, i welcome the fact that the european executive is preparing a proposal for a common market in public debt, which will facilitate debt financing and ensure the liquidity of the european currency. at the same time, proposals on fiscal harmonisation, european economic governance, growth and job creation are still needed. the importance of the euro in the international arena is indisputable. the united states has called for european unity these days, and the union must live up to expectations.
in writing. the eu is not just under the pressure of the sovereign debt crisis, under the pressure of the crisis of confidence. the union is at a crossroads, faced with a choice between deepening integration and retrogression. we are living in crucial moments when we must decide whether we will continue the european project of economic integration, the expansion of the single market and the consolidation of the emu, or allow the single european construction to sink into the swamp of populism, extremism and isolationism. the crisis facing the eu requires a european response, not a sum of national responses. it is not enough to say and repeat this, but the european solidarity response must be put into practice. we need the implementation of the measures and the establishment of the european institutions proposed in the european economic governance package now. but we also need a european government, first at the level of the eurozone. last but not least, we need a european parliament with broad powers to manage the process of deepening european integration, because the continuation of the transfer of sovereignty must be guaranteed by the only european institution directly elected by the 500 million citizens of the eu. the beneficiaries of deeper european integration will thus be the citizens of europe.
in writing. − i voted for the reports by mrs matera on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because i believe that we need to focus on the problems caused by globalisation and the economic crisis and, at the same time, express our solidarity with the regions affected. the over 21 million unemployed currently in the european union demonstrate the need for concrete measures in all member states to encourage access to the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). in this way, we will take a step towards stabilising the labour market and reducing unemployment, contributing to sustainable economic growth. to this end, it is necessary to adopt a legislative framework allowing access to the egf also in member states which have encountered obstacles, as has been the case with their country of origin. i believe and i argue that romania could also benefit from such aid in the future, in the context of the relocation of companies.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted in december 2010 a written declaration on the eu homelessness strategy to help member states develop effective national strategies, in line with the joint report on social protection and social inclusion for 2010 and as part of europe 2020. this joint report states that member states should adopt integrated strategies on homelessness, focusing on key objectives such as preventing and reducing the duration of homelessness, particularly in severe cases, improving services for homeless people and providing affordable housing. the eu strategy to be developed by the european commission and the national strategies must focus on common definitions, causes, actions and impact effects. the european commission must draw up a communication on the phenomenon of homelessness, which is absolutely necessary, and european policies and strategies must be developed together with homeless people and the associations to which they belong. the european commission should support the creation of structural funds (esf + erdf) specifically designed to address the phenomenon of homelessness, the social inclusion of homeless people in the european union, through the construction of social and permanent housing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of our colleague's report. in the energy market we need rules to prohibit abusive practices and to define precisely every detail, which is what the new regulation covers. we need to monitor energy trading activities equally with the help of both national supervisory authorities and the responsible european agency. equally important are data collection and reporting, registration of market participants, and the exchange of information between the agency and other authorities. finally, enforcement mechanisms are needed to enforce prohibitions on market abuse.
in writing. - when we voted on this regulation, consumer protection was at the forefront. the introduction of an energy market integrity and transparency regulation will ensure fairness in wholesale energy trading. we have a duty to protect the consumer and to make sure that the final price he pays is fair. but we cannot talk about consumer protection without a more transparent internal market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers' interests. i welcome the adoption of this regulation and am convinced that it brings us closer to the creation of an internal energy market.
in writing. − this framework targets energy markets, in addition to the regulations already in place for financial markets. unfair practices in energy markets affect the price level so much that they cannot fulfil their role of sending clear signals to power stations, individuals and businesses on the optimal use of energy, provide guidance on reasonable investment in energy infrastructure and encourage energy efficiency. transparency of energy markets is a prerequisite for better integration of the eu energy market, which should bring important benefits for consumers. the 'remit' therefore functions as a key instrument for achieving the objective set by the european council, namely the creation of the internal market by 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the energy market integrity and transparency regulation is a key instrument for the completion of the internal energy market by 2014. it will create a framework defining coherent rules, adapted to the specificities of energy markets and designed to detect and discourage market abuse. we must bear in mind that market abuse in a particular member state will not be limited to that member state but can have consequences at eu level and we must not forget that the fundamental purpose of the european energy market is to offer consumers lower prices by stimulating competition. the regulation gives national authorities the lead role in the investigation procedures in the event of suspected abuses and i believe that member states should give them the necessary powers to investigate market abuse and lay down appropriate rules on applicable sanctions. last but not least, i argue that acer must play an instrumental role in preventing market abuse and manipulation that causes consumer prices to rise, and that nras must accept communication and collaboration with acer, because only then will the agency be able to fulfil its assigned role.
in writing. − the regulation aims to prohibit market manipulation and insider trading in the eu’s energy markets and defines them and puts in place monitoring mechanisms and penalties to dissuade from such forms of market abuse. acer (agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators) is given a strong role to play: to monitor and help enforce the regulation with national regulatory authorities, a registration scheme for market participants (with the possibility for a licensing scheme should this not prove sufficient), ensuring that penalties take into account the consumer damage caused by market abuse, that acer will be allocated sufficient funds in a review in order to take into account the extra tasks assigned to it. the commission should consider presenting a proposal to harmonise minimum standards for penalties and member states have to work to harmonise sanctions, so as to avoid competition or loopholes. voting this report we act to curtail market abuse and speculation in the wholesale energy markets, to protect the consumer, as it is ultimately consumers who pay more for their electricity and gas when these abuses occur.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on public access to documents for 2009-2010 because i consider transparency to be a fundamental right of citizens, legally binding as well as a general rule. i argue that any decision to deny access to documents must be based on clear, precisely defined, reasoned and clearly explained exceptions, so that citizens can understand the situation and use other available legal remedies. the european union must be a model of institutional transparency and modern democracy for both its member states and third countries. we also need a proactive approach to information availability and we need to make efforts to make as many categories of documents as possible available to the public through all communication channels. last but not least, i believe that there is a need for harmonisation of access to information legislation at eu level and that member states should be encouraged to adopt legislation that is as transparent as possible on access to documents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and in the libe committee i contributed amendments to highlight the following: that transparency is the best way to prevent mismanagement, fraud and corruption; according to international standards, the refusal to disclose a document should be based on a strict three-part test – to protect a legitimate aim, prevent a substantial harm, and no overriding public interest for disclosure applies; eu institutions should be proactive, making as many categories of documents as possible publicly accessible by default on their websites; transparency of data on the beneficiaries of eu funds should be strengthened by the publication of the same categories of information, on a single website, in one eu working language.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution because i believe that the conclusion of the doha round negotiations must be accelerated. the doha round was launched in 2001 with the aim of promoting development by balancing trade imbalances so that developing countries as well as the least developed countries are economically integrated. in my opinion, the industrialized countries must take responsibility for the development of the poor countries. unfortunately, after a long period of stagnation in the negotiations, they are not expected to be completed by 2011. if the doha round proves to be a failure, the wto's credibility as a guarantor of an effective multilateral trading system could be called into question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, but i think that the text should have included separate references to the negotiations in the field of agriculture, particularly in view of the special nature of this sector and the situation it has been going through in recent years. the wto negotiations on agriculture must be looked at separately and given a special status, given the concessions made to our partners so far, which have not been followed by similar concessions, and the risk of putting european producers at a disadvantage on the world market. continuing negotiations and closing them are necessary, but not at any price.
in writing. − the vote in favour of the report, which aims to simplify the legislative process by which the european parliament debates and adopts laws, is justified by the need to improve the efficiency of the whole legislative process. i believe that the plan set out in this document has a real chance of success because it sets out in a realistic way how we can improve the administrative process. the initiative to translate laws into a language accessible to citizens of the european union is also one that i wholeheartedly support because it protects the principle of legislative transparency and ensures that members of the union can exercise their rights in full knowledge of the facts. in addition, i believe that parliament should cooperate with the council throughout the legislative process in order to uphold and implement the principle of equality of the two institutions deriving from the treaty of lisbon. the emphasis on the need to keep both the public and businesses informed about laws adopted by parliament is another provision that i support, although this can only be achieved by improving communication about proposed laws and how they are implemented.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, although i regret that it omits from its text a reference, which is timely at this point, to the principle of 'one in, one out'. however, i note as positive aspects some very important ideas: the possibility of introducing a 'clarity test', the commission's intention to present a legislative proposal on the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, the improvement of the eur-lex database, the exclusion of smes from the scope of the regulations where the provisions would disproportionately affect them and, last but not least, the effective integration of multilingualism in the administration and publication of the results of public consultations.
in writing. − people living on the streets represent the most visible and extreme form of poverty and exclusion. these disadvantaged people do not have access to social, health or educational services, their needs being in particular the need for housing, then the need to find a job, and in general finding a solution to overcome this difficult situation and socio-professional reintegration. over the last decade, the coordination of policies at european level in the field of homelessness under the open method of coordination for social protection and social inclusion has strengthened and added value to efforts at regional, national and local level, and further action is needed in this regard under a more strategic approach. i believe it is essential to develop an ambitious european strategy, integrated and supported by national and regional strategies, with the long-term objective of addressing homelessness within the broader framework of social inclusion. the eu homelessness strategy should be fully compatible with the social housing policy of the member states, which enshrines the principle of promoting social diversity and combating social segregation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a homelessness strategy because this painful reality, which affects all eu member states, is an unacceptable violation of human dignity. homelessness is one of the most serious forms of poverty and has increased in recent years in several eu member states. this framework paves the way for a consolidated and ambitious action against homelessness at european level by identifying the methods and means to optimally continue the work started by the commission and continued with the activities of 2010 - the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − in an effort to mitigate the consequences of climate change, the european climate policy has been focused on long-term reductions of co2 emissions. scientific data prove that the eu policy is lacking a comprehensive approach towards the reduction of the non-co2 climate-relevant anthropogenic emissions, namely the hfcs, black carbon and pollutant gases that lead to formation of tropospheric ozone. the same data indicate that it is important to complement our efforts against climate change, by firmly and timely addressing the non-co2 pollutants, while taking advantage of existing technologies and institutions. relevant policy options include: (a) phasing down the production and consumption of hfcs with global warming potential, to accelerate the phase-out of hcfcs, and recover and destroy stratospheric ozone-depleting ghgs in discarded products and equipment, (b) reduction of emissions of black carbon, giving priority to emissions that affect regions of snow and ice, including the arctic glaciers; (c) reduction of pollutant gases that lead to formation of tropospheric ozone, a significant ghg. the eu needs to develop a broader, more comprehensive climate change policy which would address the harmful effects of non-co2 climate-related anthropogenic emissions, such as hfcs, black carbon and other pollutant gases which are particularly damaging to the lower ozone layer.
in writing. − i very much welcome this initiative and the attention which is now being paid to addressing non-co2 emissions. given the disproportionately large influence on climate change of some of these gases, it is clear that any effective emission reduction strategy cannot focus solely on carbon dioxide. we must, however, ensure that emission reduction policies apply fairly across different sectors. i could not support some colleagues earlier this year when they voted for measures which would have disproportionately and negatively affected the agricultural sector, particularly small-scale farms. agriculture can and should make a big contribution to emission reduction, but it must be done fairly, which means avoiding harming the most vulnerable farmers.
on monday afternoon i asked that in our current session we have not just a debate but a resolution on libya. the argument i made was that it's better to vote before gaddafi is captured or gone. i believe the gaddafi regime is in its last days. i don't think he'll be able to hold the next session, even though there are, as we know, bastions of resistance in bani walid in the first place; but libya is slowly moving towards a democratic transition that we all want. it is clear, as the previous speakers have said, that the libyans were at the origin of the transformation and the challenge that led to the current situation. at the same time, european states played an important role in: 1. finding an international consensus for intervention and 2. as more states were involved in nato operations to ensure the protection of civilians. we have a responsibility because of this. and the key responsibility is to rebuild institutions, to build a truly democratic political system that respects human rights. i welcome the remark made by my colleague, mario mauro. at the same time, we are all aware that this reconstruction cannot begin as long as the security situation is uncertain. and to conclude, the reconstruction of libya also depends on national reconciliation, which means investigating and punishing the crimes of the gaddafi era, but it also means finding a way to ensure access to justice for all those who were harmed during the revolution, regardless of who committed the crimes.
madam president, after the taking of tripoli the situation in libya enters a new delicate phase – that of building the new state institutions. in the absence of an actor with enough authority to manage the process – see the army in egypt or the lack of it in iraq – that process will inevitably imply jockeying for power on the part of all those involved in obtaining victory. the fact that most of those groups are armed and that those loyal to gaddafi, who is still at large, are still active complicates the process. moreover, the administration of the country should be separated from state-building. the latter should not interfere with the former because, if it does, the discontent of the population could delay and complicate state-building. however, there is an external aspect too, namely how to provide support and at the same time not to get involved – as the victors are categorically demanding – and how to combine bilateral and multilateral elements in providing that support. finally, let us not forget that in this new phase the nato strikes have become a highly sensitive issue, given that it is essential to avoid being perceived as interfering in the power game.
in writing. the specific causes of the arab world's uprisings remain to be identified. beyond the uncertainties underlying such social phenomena, the 'political engineering' practised again by euro-atlantic actors increases the danger of the situation. the echoes of self-deceptive talk in the eu have not died down, that we are already seeing in egypt the reintroduction of martial law after the attacks on the israeli embassy; in libya, the discovery of atrocities committed by rebels and the announced reintroduction of islamic law as a model of governance. turkey, a former strategic ally of israel, drastically reduces the level of diplomatic relations with this country and declares the recognition of the palestinian state an obligation. at the same time, the settlement policy leaves palestinian self-determination without territorial support, and the violence in syria and the anti-nato taliban attacks in afghanistan demonstrate the impotence of the west in the region. how do we move towards a future of peace? by abandoning the pernicious geopolitics that guarantees israel's security by supporting illegitimate arab regimes. abandoning the instrumentalization of human rights for geopolitical purposes, as well as the neocolonial transfer of western models of social organization to the middle east. supporting cooperation policies that end the rentier economy in the middle east and thereby domestic and external socio-political clientelism. secularising international relations and ending the "culture war" between "saving" judeo-christianity and "damned" islam.
i too believe that european diplomacy must send a strong signal to all parties to the conflict in syria to come to the negotiating table for a peaceful solution to the crisis that has been bleeding this country for half a year. the death toll from the reprisals has reached 2,600, according to the un high commissioner for human rights. the syrian regime itself admits that the violence has claimed thousands of lives. we have witnessed for months scenes of appalling violence against opponents of the regime in damascus, from the opening of fire on protesters and the use of heavy weapons to suppress demonstrations, to acts of barbarism such as the exchange of political opponents. we strongly condemn these brutal violations of human rights and demand an immediate end to any reprisals against the protesters. i also believe that we must categorically demand the withdrawal of troops to barracks, the release of political prisoners and the creation of an independent commission of inquiry into the recent assassinations. there are a few essential premises to make possible the dialogue between power and opposition. and if the syrian authorities continue their policy of force against their own people, i believe that international protection action is necessary to end the slaughter of civilians.
i welcome this debate, as tensions in syria are escalating by the day. it is unacceptable for syrian security forces to intervene in hospitals in conflict zones. evacuating patients and cutting off the supply of medication is a crime in itself. i draw attention to the risk that tensions could damage relations between the various religious communities. this state is known for its mosaic of cultures, which have coexisted for centuries in harmony. a conflict between religious groups would be dangerous to the course of events in the country as well as to the stability of the region. i would like to emphasize once again the abuses committed by the government against the protesters and members of the opposition. the violent repression by the syrian regime is a serious violation of fundamental rights, in particular the right to freedom of expression.
in writing. the last european parliament resolution on the situation in syria was adopted only 2 months ago. unfortunately, nothing has changed since then. the al-assad regime continues to remain deaf to the peaceful demands of syrian citizens for freedom and social justice. bashar al-assad only formally admits that these demands are legitimate and invokes the thesis of an external conspiracy to justify the continuation of violent repression. the additional sanctions adopted by the council earlier this month are, of course, a step forward. but i want to stress that we urgently need to do more to engage the rest of the international community in crafting a firm and coherent response at the united nations, involving the arab league. we have wasted enough time and our message to the al-assad regime must be clear: human rights violations in syria will not be tolerated.
mr president, i would like to ask my colleague véronique de keyser: how does the palestinian proclamation of independence help restart negotiations and bring the two parties back to the table to resume negotiations?
at this point, the priority for the middle east must be to save the peace process. negotiations are the only way to achieve a lasting peace. therefore, it is essential that they are resumed as soon as possible. surely the leaders of both sides will take these things into account and avoid a worsening of tensions that could jeopardize all the agreements reached so far. the international community must also be involved in mediating the situation. i applaud the efforts made by lady ashton in this regard. commissioner, can you tell us, however, whether there are at this moment any contacts and direct negotiations between the two parties? yesterday was the 18th anniversary of the signing of the oslo accords. i hope that their spirit will persist, allowing the current tensions to be overcome.
in writing. the spiral of uncertainty in the middle east risks being amplified by the discussion in the un general assembly of the recognition of the independence of the palestinian state. amid the uncertainties caused by the collapse of regimes in north africa, this summer saw an accelerated deterioration in israel's relations with its main partners in the region, turkey and egypt. the expulsion of the israeli ambassador, prime minister erdogan's intention to visit gaza and the threat of an increased naval presence in the eastern mediterranean are episodes that betray a growing nervousness on the part of turkey after the publication of the un report on the gaza flotilla. incidents on the israeli-egyptian border and the violence that led to the evacuation of israel's ambassador from cairo have also worrisomely strained its relations with the first arab country to make a peace agreement with the jewish state. i believe that european diplomacy must play a more active role as a mediator in this region in our immediate vicinity, whose chronic instability directly affects us.
the author. - we wanted and have for the first time an eu anti-corruption mechanism. it is ours - to support it and to apply it rigorously in all member states. we need him to get us out of the economic, financial and trust crisis. the major corruption scandals of recent years and the debt crisis affecting member states have amplified european citizens' feelings of mistrust. law-abiding and taxpaying european citizens in my country, romania, and in all member states, must be assured that money is not being diverted to corruption, fraud and abuse. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union. european citizens must be assured that those who break the law are punished in any member state, that money obtained illegally is confiscated and put into the public budget, that there are equal, clear and minimum definitions and rules for punishing corruption and fraud. trust in the institutions, the judiciary, the financial systems and the political class is essential and vital to the unity of the union. when we ask for solidarity, we must offer trust. that was the vision of the union's founders. we therefore urgently need this mechanism to be implemented and we ask the member states to be honest and rigorous in applying it. reporting and verification of anti-corruption measures must start with public procurement, justice, tax agencies, political party financing and confiscation of illegally obtained money and assets. we ask the commission to make the fight against corruption a priority in the context of the security agenda and to provide financial and human resources. and let us remember, when we talk about the budget, that it must be compared at least with the approximately eur 120 billion lost annually to corruption in the union. we support this mechanism and thank the commission and, in particular, commissioner cecilia malmström for the anti-corruption package of june.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group welcomes the determination of the european commission to promote transparency and fight corruption across the european union. since corruption is a contagious disease that rapidly transforms itself into a structural epidemic, it has to be addressed by all possible means, from full transparency to harsh sanctions. the current economic, social and, indeed, political crisis has at its origins years of misconduct, or even offences, which some government or private actors committed but were never punished for. now the price is being paid not by those directly responsible, but by all eu citizens. at such times i believe we must focus not so much on past achievements as on the things that still need to be done. we should not turn a blind eye to our own practices. in march this year, the global organisation of parliamentarians against corruption stated in a resolution that we have a responsibility to strengthen the confidence of the citizens we represent. in order to do so, we all, regardless of the countries we come from, have to be much more transparent when it comes to our own activities and the financial resources we handle. we need better rules on conflicts of interest and thorough implementation of these rules. codes of conduct with a clear and strict definition of conflicts of interest must be drawn up by all eu institutions, eu agencies and member state governments and public agencies alike. we, as politicians, must set an example. therefore, we must take action to fight corruption and prevent it from infiltrating politics by means of strict rules on the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns in all eu member states. european citizens placed their trust in us by electing us to represent them; we have no right to betray that trust.
commissioner, i want to congratulate you on this package of legislation. indeed, when we talk about the fight against corruption we must talk about democracy in the state concerned, we must talk about public procurement, we must talk about transparency in the spending of public money; automatically, we must talk about public-private partnership, about depoliticising national management authorities when we talk about european funds, about the independence of the judiciary, about depoliticising the control bodies in the state concerned. commissioner, when you seek support from the council, i want you to keep one very important thing in mind. from the president to the last member of the government, in romania, the fight against corruption is not national policy, but corruption itself.
over 70% of european citizens consider corruption a major problem in their own country, according to the latest eurobarometer, and we have a duty to take appropriate action to address these concerns. a unified approach at european level is therefore needed, but so is sustained political commitment. i welcome the general anti-corruption package presented by the european commission and the resolution initiated by my colleague, mrs macovei. in romania, insufficient knowledge of procedures has led to a number of irregularities in the management of european funds. i therefore believe that, in addition to monitoring and evaluation measures, particular attention should be paid to the selection and training of officials, as well as to public information, especially at local level. i hope that the general anti-corruption report presented by the commission in 2013 will be an objective one, identifying best practices in the fight against corruption.
first of all, i would like to welcome the decision taken on monday to increase by eur 100 million the european union's aid to the famine-stricken regions of the horn of africa and the two sudanese states. it is a necessary mobilization, but not sufficient, given that over 13 million people are suffering from drought and famine in the horn of africa. that is why i believe we must strengthen the call for greater involvement of the entire international community. i am thinking, for example, of the emerging countries, which should be called upon more strongly to assume greater responsibilities at international level. the un has announced that three quarters of a million people are on the verge of starvation in somalia. but humanitarian workers face some specific challenges that must be addressed with utmost care: water shortages, conflict-related access to those in need, forced recruitment of men by local militias, and the increasing number of rapes against women in refugee camps. the growing insecurity in these overcrowded camps risks amplifying an already very serious humanitarian crisis. last but not least, an increase in the percentage of the european union's official development assistance allocated to supporting agricultural production in these countries, where the food crisis is influenced not only by crop failures due to drought and war but also by fluctuating world market prices.
in the last few weeks, in the last few months, there's been a lot of talk about africa. and political leaders, and the international press, tell us something about africa almost every day. but we have a very important distinction, because you're talking about north africa on one side, you're talking about east africa on the other side. when it comes to the north, words are being said that never seemed to be said about this region: democratization based on a very strong contest, revolution, mobilization and so on. whereas, in the east, the words are those we have known for a long time: hunger, care, need and so on. we have very strong images of both situations: in the north, armed rebels, nato, intervention by european leaders and so on. for east africa, we also have very powerful, but very familiar images: mothers protecting their children from starvation, organizations calling for rapid intervention -- images we've known for many years. i would also like to congratulate dg echo on the humanitarian aid it has received and on the excellent work it has done to help the victims of the drought. the issue that links the two regions is, i think, the link between development and democratization.
the harrowing images of malnourished children in east africa are well known. there are disturbing stories of mothers carrying their children for miles only to realize at their destination that they did not survive. the number of people affected reflects the scale of the catastrophe, and the tragedy begins with each of them. the international community has a duty to do everything possible to provide the necessary assistance to those in imminent danger. the long-term objective of achieving a sustainable improvement in the situation must also be borne in mind. east africa has already experienced similar crises. it is time to break this vicious chain where, against the backdrop of fragile states, drought leads to famine and causes a humanitarian catastrophe. in this context, i welcome the commission's decision to allocate funds to support agriculture, rural development and food security in east africa.
in writing. drought, crop failures and ongoing conflict have left many east africans in dire need of food aid, in the worst famine in 60 years. in some places, malnutrition rates have exceeded the emergency threshold by three times, and unfortunately, no improvement is expected in the critical situation in this region. hunger here is exacerbated by factors such as resource scarcity, rapid population growth, lack of infrastructure, distorted trade practices, and high commodity prices. i therefore consider that a rapid escalation of the emergency response is essential to respond to existing humanitarian needs and to prevent the situation from deteriorating further. i express my deep regret for the loss of life and the suffering of the people of this region. i encourage greater mobilisation of eu aid in areas where hunger is acute to provide refugees with food, medical care, drinking water and sanitation. i call for an immediate end to the abuses against civilians, especially women and children, by all parties concerned, and for access to aid and free movement to be guaranteed to all those displaced by conflict and drought.
in writing. the horn of africa crisis has reached a stage where the lack of a coherent response will take the death toll from tens of thousands to millions. more than ever, there is a need to facilitate access for humanitarian aid organisations to the area. i therefore welcome the european commission's immediate reaction and its decision to supplement aid to regions threatened by famine. but financial support is not enough, a long-term strategy must be considered to bring about sustainable development in the region, with the involvement of the entire international community. this crisis is not just caused by famine, but also by local politicians, and without stopping the civil war in the area, creating food corridors is difficult. the involvement of the african union is very important, but it is not enough because it does not have the resources to deal with this crisis, so the involvement of the eu is necessary. it also calls for international attention to be paid to the danger of abusive speculation on agricultural markets leading to higher food prices.
as we are talking about a crisis of noncommunicable diseases today, which threatens the achievement of the millennium development goals, i believe that it is time to invest money and time in solving this problem. we already have on paper the solution to save millions of people from premature death or the drudgery of living with various disabilities caused by bnts. we need a big picture to measure as accurately as possible the scale of this problem and its associated costs. governments should invest more in research, not just domestically but also externally, in low- and middle-income countries, to facilitate stronger control of the evolution of noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors globally. i was pleased to hear the commission's position on this matter and i am also pleased that commissioner dalli is attending the un meeting on the prevention and control of ncds, because we need a firm and clear position from our representative at this meeting, which will make the european union look like a dialogue partner whose voice counts globally.
i would refer to amendment no 1 to the joint motion for a resolution calling for the introduction of standardised packaging in cigarette packs. i'm not standing up for smokers or producers. i am firmly in support of action to combat smoking, but i would like to offer some arguments against this amendment. firstly, i doubt the effectiveness of such a measure and i believe that all consumers, even smokers, have the right to choose the product they buy if they want to buy it. the package provides important information on quality and origin. secondly, the measure will open the way to illegal trade, including counterfeit products. in 2009, tobacco products were the top counterfeit in the european union. counterfeit products pose additional health risks. last but not least, the measure would constitute an infringement of intellectual property rights and a dangerous precedent.
amendments to the regulations on radiocommunication, binding on the members of the itu, including all member states of the european union, will be adopted at the itu world radiocommunication conference. in the negotiations at the 2012 itu world radiocommunication conference, the technical positions of the negotiating partners may reflect policy objectives, industrial policy interests, space policy interests and other interests. member states must develop joint actions and cooperate throughout the negotiations to ensure that decisions are taken in support of union policies and initiatives. the agenda includes 25 items covering crossborder cooperation on the digital dividend, crossborder interference, radio spectrum for the development of the galileo programme, provision of spectrum for mobile data traffic, introduction of modern communication systems for air safety, communication satellites, emissions from short-range devices, mobile maritime service and ships and ports equipped with security systems, radar in the 15.4 to 15.7 ghz band. the union must protect the frequencies necessary for the operation of the galileo system against interference from other radio services and support the additional band 2 483,5 - 2 500 mhz with a view to improving services in the future. the regulatory provisions necessary for the use of the 960-1164 mhz band in the aviation sector are intended to support the introduction of applications in the field of air traffic management. the regulated limits for use in the aviation sector should also ensure the protection of satellite navigation receivers operating in the band 1 164 - 1 215 mhz for life safety applications by gps and the galileo system. the union must defend a position that ensures that mobile satellite services have the frequencies necessary for the provision of air traffic management services in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the watson report because i believe that the association agreement is a concrete way of exploiting the positive dynamics of eu-moldova relations. it is very important that europe encourages and supports the progressive integration of the republic of moldova into european economic and social structures. support is needed for the process of consolidating democracy in this state. i would also point out that the existence of an unresolved conflict in the transnistrian region constitutes a threat to security and stability in europe. i would like to mention that the official negotiations on the transnistrian issue in the 5+2 format have been interrupted for more than five years. the eu needs to be more firmly involved in the resumption of these negotiations. at the same time, the russian federation should also take a more constructive stance at the informal consultations to be held in moscow on 22 september.
in writing. − the republic of moldova has a partner in the european union, and the recommendations sent by the parliament to the other community institutions come as a confirmation of this partnership. the european legislator is aware that the eu, as a promoter of stability, must become proactive in finding a timely and viable solution to the transnistria conflict, a permanent source of regional instability. the liberalisation of the visa regime for moldovan citizens is one of the main concerns of the government in chisinau, as is the conclusion of an association agreement between the republic of moldova and the eu. both sides are aware, however, that there is still some work to be done. romania has also gone through these stages which, although long, have finally shown their benefits in terms of economy, performance and democracy. in fact, association with the eu and subsequent membership are evidence of a healthy democracy, sound principles and commitment to them. the republic of moldova has made significant progress in recent years. but even chisinau officials admit there are still structural problems to be solved in the state east of the prut.
in writing. − the report setting out the european parliament's plan to step up negotiations between the european union and the republic of moldova deserved its favourable vote as it sets out all the issues that need to be resolved before accession talks can proceed. the thoroughness with which the problems facing the republic of moldova both internally and externally are discussed, and the remedies proposed in this report, stand a real chance of success if the european union remains committed to the long but promising accession process. an important step to be taken by the republic of moldova is to reform the judicial system and adopt viable measures against corruption, in order to be able to develop the business environment and attract foreign investors and also to improve trade with the european union. the emphasis on the need to end the territorial dispute in transnistria is commendable, although a joint monitor will not be possible if the republic of moldova and russia respectively are not willing to negotiate. overall, this document is one that presents the problems of the republic of moldova in a realistic way and emphasises the need for better cooperation between the republic of moldova and the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the eu-republic of moldova negotiations for an association agreement because i believe that the european approach of the republic of moldova should be encouraged and supported. the european union welcomes the cooperation of the moldovan authorities in the fields of foreign policy, energy policy, trade and human rights, which has led to the closure of many chapters in the negotiations. i believe that the progress made by this country entitles us to call for the inclusion of a deep and comprehensive free trade area as an integral part of the association agreement and the start of negotiations on this area before the end of the year.
in writing. − the eastern partnership has created a significant political framework for deepening relations between the european union and the republic of moldova. in recent years, moldova has shown its commitment to the common values and principles by showing its desire to follow a european path. we must recognise the growing importance of moldova within the eastern partnership. that is why the european union must speak clearly about moldova's european future. it should not be seen from the perspective of a country that wants to get closer to the european union, but from the perspective of a country that wants to become a member. in view of the progress made by the republic of moldova, i consider the european parliament's recommendations to the council and the commission in this resolution to be natural and i support them.
in writing. − the republic of moldova is a reliable partner of the european union in the eastern partnership and fully deserves both financial and strategic support. the conditions have been created for the intensification of bilateral relations and acceleration of economic integration between the republic of moldova and the eu. in the perspective of european integration, i believe that this country needs to make significant efforts to implement structural reforms and to accelerate internal reforms. in addition to economic and social aspects, i believe that the european union should pay more attention to the conflict in transnistria. a political solution to this conflict is needed in accordance with the principle of the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova. a viable solution will resolve the problem of regional instability and mistrust.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the watson report to support the republic of moldova's concrete steps towards association with the european union. in the committee on foreign affairs, i proposed and amendments to this report were approved with explicit references to the prospect of the republic of moldova's accession to the eu and to a specific partnership with the union. i also called on the european institutions to start negotiations with the republic of moldova on the free trade agreement by the end of 2011 and to make greater efforts to resolve the conflict in the transnistrian region, while respecting the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i salute its adoption as a milestone in relations between the eu and its eastern partners. the republic of moldova proved to be an honest and active partner in absorbing european standards and practices. moldova has now set a positive precedent for all our eastern partners. the report and its approval with a large majority in parliament are direct recognition of the successful efforts initiated by the pro-european governing coalition in kishinev. the ongoing fruitful eu-moldova cooperation will be a reassurance for the moldovan people who will benefit greatly in terms of freedom of movement and economic exchanges. these vital elements in the life of any society will surely be strengthened by further liberalisation of the visa regime and by the dcfta negotiations, as specifically mentioned in the report. today's vote in parliament can be rightly considered a breakthrough in the political and institutional development of a strong, viable eastern european dimension. from my position as shadow rapporteur, i express my gratitude to all the political groups for their constructive cooperation and contribution to the substance of the report.
in writing. − after six months of fighting, which has resulted in thousands of casualties, as well as alarming suffering and humanitarian needs, the gaddafi regime has come to an end and an interim government led by the national transitional council will soon begin work on building a new libya. the libyan people have shown courage and determination in their fight against an oppressive and dictatorial regime. there can be no immunity for crimes against humanity. muammar gaddafi and members of his regime must be held accountable and tried for the crimes committed in accordance with the rule of law. that is why all countries, especially libya's neighbours, must cooperate with the new libyan authorities and the international judicial authorities, namely the icc, to ensure that gaddafi and his closest allies are brought to justice. a democratic, stable, prosperous and peaceful north africa is of key interest to the eu; i therefore recommend that a delegation of the european parliament be sent to libya without delay to assess the situation, send a message of support and solidarity and initiate a dialogue with the ntc, civil society and other relevant actors at the local level.
in writing. − the process of reconstruction and transition to democracy in libya depends at this time on several key elements: the complete removal of gaddafi's influence, the tribal structure and the lack of any democratic experience; plans to establish an islamic state; the risk of undermining european credibility due to competition for libyan oil; and the risk of instability, amplified by the massive proliferation of weapons and lack of authority. crimes committed in the name of hunting down gaddafi loyalists could spark a spiral of violence that could push libya into uncontrollable chaos. in this respect, i welcome the position of commissioner kristalina georgieva, who said last thursday that the eu will not give unconditional confidence to the new power in tripoli, because of the extrajudicial executions and humanitarian concerns. in view of these elements, i believe that the eu's efforts must focus first and foremost on strict monitoring of human rights and stopping summary executions, in order to ensure a peaceful transition to a democratic regime whose sovereignty over libyan resources is not undermined by foreign interests. otherwise, there is a risk of collapse into chaos and, in the medium term, even counter-insurgency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in libya, considering that the desire of the libyan people for freedom and the fall of the regime of muammar gaddafi should be welcomed. the national transitional council now has the responsibility to ensure respect for democratic principles and human rights and to begin the building of democratic institutions with the involvement of the whole of libyan society. in order to support the efforts of the libyan people, the european union must be united and develop a common strategy for libya.
in writing. − the courage and determination of the syrian people are to be commended, and their aspirations to ensure full respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and to benefit from better economic and social conditions must be supported by the international community. since the beginning of the violent crackdown on peaceful protests in syria in march 2011, and despite the lifting of the state of emergency announced by the government on 21 april, systematic killings, violence and torture have escalated dramatically, with the syrian army and security forces continuing to kill and torture protesters and carry out mass arrests. according to un estimates, over 2,600 people lost their lives, many more were injured, and thousands were imprisoned. i strongly condemn the escalation of violence against peaceful protesters and the brutal and systematic persecution of democracy activists, human rights defenders and journalists. i also express my deep concern at the seriousness of the human rights violations committed by the syrian authorities, including mass arrests, extrajudicial executions, arbitrary detentions, disappearances and acts of torture.
in writing. − i voted for intensified efforts at eu level to combat corruption, a scourge that undermines the rule of law, leads to misuse of public funds and eu funds provided by taxpayers. it also distorts the market, playing its own negative role in the context of the current economic crisis. another reason is the losses caused by corruption, which amount to €120 billion a year, or 1% of the eu's gdp. last but not least, the recovery of member states hit by the economic and financial crisis is being blocked by corruption, tax evasion, tax fraud and other economic crimes. in the case of large-scale deregulation and privatisation, the risk of corruption is very high and must be countered by all possible means.
in writing. - the loss of life and suffering of the people of east africa is a drama of the modern world. it is clear that, as the european parliament has called for, more eu aid needs to be mobilised in areas where hunger is acute, to provide food, medical care, drinking water and sanitation to the most vulnerable. with tens of thousands of people dead, 750 000 facing an imminent risk of famine and 13.3 million people in somalia, ethiopia, kenya, eritrea and djibouti in urgent need of food aid, this is the worst famine in 60 years; it is imperative that the authorities and factions in the region allow humanitarian aid organisations unrestricted access to those in need and protect the civilian population, especially women and children. i stress that solving the problem of hunger in the horn of africa, and in particular in somalia, will only be possible if the underlying political, economic, environmental and security issues are tackled together by local actors and the international community. i call for an eu strategy for the region, setting out the political objectives and how humanitarian, development and military measures can be coordinated and mutually supported.
in writing. − europe is facing a growing prevalence of noncommunicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity-related conditions, musculoskeletal disorders, all of which are caused by the interaction of various genetic, environmental and mainly lifestyle factors (smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, unbalanced diets and lack of physical activity). that is why the european parliament's call for an effective and timely review of the tobacco products directive is welcome. the european parliament resolution calls on the european commission to consider extending the remit of the european centre for disease prevention and control to non-communicable diseases. i fully agree, because it will then be able to function as a data centre, providing doctors, scientists and decision-makers with centralised information on these diseases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu strategic approach to the itu world radiocommunication conference 2012 because i consider the impact of this conference on eu policies on radio spectrum technology to be important. i support the idea that the commission should provide technical and political support to member states, both in bilateral and multilateral negotiations and in international agreements on the allocation of radio spectrum. in this respect, the focus should be on the cross-border areas of the european union, where there may be interference due to the overlap of different allocation plans. i stress the importance of cooperation and coordination at member state level in order to benefit from the full potential of the innovation opportunities in radio spectrum technology and at the same time support the need for the eu to serve as a global model of good practice in this regard. last but not least, i would like to emphasise the vulnerability of radio spectrum devices to cyber attacks and the need for a coordinated global approach to strengthening the security of information systems.
in writing. − i would like to express my appreciation for the fact that the agenda of the 2012 world radiocommunication conference also includes the radio spectrum items for the development of the galileo programme. this is an ambitious project, of particular importance for the european union, and i believe that in this conference, member states must protect europe's interests and capacity to develop and implement the best possible system in an effective and transparent way. galileo is a step towards a stronger europe and i believe that by supporting the acquisition of an additional band (2483.5 2500 mhz), protected against interference from other radio services, the programme will have major implications for many european union policies, such as transport, communications, research or the environment.
the author. - yesterday's newspapers from various places announced that the national currency of belarus has fallen by 40% recently due to the crisis. the newspapers forgot to say that it was a planned economy and that, like any planned economy, it was destined to fail. the fact that the planned economy is, as in any totalitarian regime, accompanied by political repression, the arrest of ales beliacki being only the latest in a series of human rights violations which our parliament has consistently condemned, was also not mentioned in these newspapers. we continue to demand the immediate and unconditional release of mr. beliacki, the president of the human rights organization viasna, and the abolition of the article in the criminal code that prohibits participation in unregistered associations. the european institutions, on the other hand, must extend the visa bans and asset freezes to those involved in the arrest of beliacki.
on behalf of the ppe group. the activities of vyaszna 96, spring 96 led by bialiatski are exemplary in helping to overthrow the hard-line belarusian system, spread democratic ideas, and create public opinion. the courageous stand of vyaszna and similar organisations may inspire others to take similar courageous actions, which may force the belarusian government to make democratic concessions, to respect human rights more. but let's not underestimate the atmosphere of fear that is typical of all dictatorships. if the authorities succeed in crushing such initiatives, the population may feel that it is impossible to break the power of the authorities. this is why international reactions and a strong expression of a united and determined eu position are so important. it should be clear that belarus must move towards democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, or it cannot expect any cooperation or concessions from european countries. at the same time, the belarusian people must also be made aware that europe is standing by them.
unlike mr posselt, who asked our colleague if he intended to defend lukashenko, i wanted to ask him if he intended to defend gaddafi.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission remains seriously concerned about the situation and ongoing repression by the belarus authorities of civil society, political opposition and the independent media. it is, as all of you have said, not the first and probably not the last time that this is discussed in this plenary. the high representative, catherine ashton, has on numerous occasions since the beginning of the year expressed her concern about developments in belarus. she has condemned the repeated acts of intimidation and harassment of peaceful human rights defenders and the continued refusal to grant legal status to independent human rights organisations in the country. the subject of today’s debate is a very good case in point: we call for the release of ales bialatski, a prominent human rights defender with a key role in civil society in belarus. he has recently wrongfully been arrested and charged with tax evasion. these charges have no substance. the high representative and the commission also believe it is important to prevent similar situations from arising in the future. the interests of those ngos that have been forced by the regime to open individual bank accounts in eu member states for implementing eu-funded assistance must be adequately protected. we are therefore examining to what extent safeguards could be put in place to this effect. my colleague commissioner füle launched an initiative in july to build the capacity of belarusian ngos. he is also in regular contact with representatives of the opposition and of civil society. he does that in the context of informing donors and implementers’ coordination meetings that the eas and the commission organise in brussels. meanwhile we are currently supporting mr bialatski for his legal costs through our urgent assistance to victims of repression, which is part of the special assistance package announced by commissioner füle in warsaw in february. the eas and the commission will continue to seek to use all instruments at the eu’s disposal to support mr bialatski and other political prisoners and victims of repression in belarus, because there are many, as you have said. we have taken note of the recent release of political prisoners and of president lukashenko’s proposal for a round table about the situation in the country. however, any serious political dialogue between the government and the political opposition in belarus would necessitate the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners. more generally, we are committed to keeping up political pressure on belarus to take a significant step forward towards respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles. to this effect, we will continue to voice our concerns, to designate those responsible for the crackdown and the restrictive measures, but we will also reach out to belarus civil society, the political opposition and the public at large. the eu will also continue to mobilise the international community to address human rights violations in belarus. for instance next week, 20 september, the high commissioner for human rights will report to the human rights council on the human rights situation in belarus, as a result of the eu-sponsored resolution on belarus adopted in june this year.
in writing. following the december 2010 elections, the human rights situation in belarus deteriorated rapidly. violent repression of democratic opposition and human rights defenders, arbitrary arrests of peaceful demonstrators, inhumane detention conditions and cases of torture are increasingly reported by international organisations and the press. the arrest of mr. ales beliacki, the president of the human rights center "viasna", is just one of the recent abuses by the authorities of president lukashenko. i join the call for the immediate and unconditional release of mr beliacki and the other representatives of civil society who have been wrongfully detained. i call on the governments of the member states and the european commission to impose sanctions on the representatives of the lukashenka regime as long as the human rights violations continue and to maintain assistance to the belarusian people and the democratic opposition.
the author. as anyone can see, good news from sudan is very rare and this forces us to take a stand repeatedly. a few weeks ago, south sudan's independence was somewhat overshadowed by the violence in south kordofan that took place in june. and just a deal was struck on september 8th, regarding the abyei region, so that in the meantime, a new outbreak of violence in kordofan and blue nile could occur. the situation seems to be similar to the famous formula "one step forward, two steps back" and, unfortunately, the political figures in the region are not credible. i join my colleagues in calling for president al-bashir to appear before the international criminal court. the fundamental reference for us is the addis ababa framework agreement of 28 june. the path of arms is excluded, which is why i was very surprised to see that the sudanese parliament decided to embrace the military option. it's exactly what can't resolve conflict.
unfortunately, the birth of a new state on the african map on july 9 did not usher in a new era of peace in the region. the clashes, which have left thousands dead and over 200,000 refugees, indicate a serious escalation of violence. access for humanitarian workers in south kordofan and the blue nile region is virtually prohibited. as the august 15 report of the un high commissioner for human rights shows, the forces of the khartoum regime have not respected either international conventions and direct agreements or the status of the un mission in sudan, whose personnel have been victims of violence. such violations of international law cannot go unpunished indefinitely, especially when the confrontations in the area can be considered war crimes and crimes against humanity. i believe the priority is to stop the fighting and provide the necessary assistance to the civilians. the agreement on the withdrawal of troops from the abyei region, brokered in addis ababa by the south african president on behalf of the african union, offers a chance for a peaceful solution, provided there is adequate international involvement.
as expected, the proclamation of independence in south sudan has not ensured political stability but has given rise to civil strife, which threatens peace and security in the region. a new african state also means new challenges, which could lead to a domino effect, of the splitting of the states belonging to the african continent. moreover, regional tensions only make the african union's role in crisis management more difficult. beyond these aspects, however, the problem of humanitarian aid remains. the conflict in sudan is exacerbating food insecurity in the region. humanitarian agencies have not been granted permission to carry out their work, while south sudanese security forces have been accused of obstructing the work of international humanitarian organisations, including the un. i therefore believe that the high representative must support, by initiating a dialogue with the parties to the conflict, the immediate access of humanitarian agencies to avoid an increase in the number of civilian casualties. (the president agreed to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
i didn't say that, and i certainly don't think that came out of my speech. so i'm for giving south sudan a chance.
the s&d group welcomes the fact that the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in eritrea, which is currently in the process of being revised. dawit isaak, a swedish citizen, returned to his native country after obtaining citizenship to work at the first independent newspaper in eritrea. his abusive detention without trial and without a lawyer is all the more outrageous because the conditions in which he is held are inhumane. i believe that concrete measures are needed to compel the asmara authorities to provide medical and legal assistance to the prisoners, to release prisoners of conscience, to hold democratic elections, which have been scheduled and cancelled periodically, and to respect the freedom of the press. i believe that there is a need for a suspension of development assistance and direct sanctions against the leadership of the state, including travel restrictions and asset freezes. the eu is also committed to the development of a common approach to the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
reporters without borders said that isaak dawit chose to write freely and encouraged others to do the same. according to his relatives, he decided to return to his native country to help build democracy. for this, he has been imprisoned for almost 10 years without trial and without being formally charged. the eu cannot accept that one of its citizens is treated like this. we must use all legal and political means to obtain isaak's release. i ask the council to consider applying sanctions against the asmara regime, as proposed by the epp. i also draw attention to the fact that we must not forget the other political activists and journalists imprisoned in eritrean prisons for the crime of free thought.
the proposed new common strategic framework can facilitate, through simplified procedures and the increased transparency it brings, a wider opening up of funding programmes. i would like to draw attention to a less discussed aspect - and i am glad that mr reul, president of the itre commission, has mentioned it here - namely that in the european union, at member state level, there are important gaps in research and innovation capacity, research infrastructure and industrial structure. i believe that the current funding framework programme favours the more advanced countries and that the gap will therefore be widened permanently. i therefore believe that at european level, cooperation in research and innovation between member states must be stepped up and cohesion funding must be complementary to the future framework programme. in this way, the lagging countries will have increased access to available funds and will be able to develop effective projects themselves.
we are currently facing an economic, social and environmental crisis, and fundamental and applied research, education and innovation are crucial tools for economic recovery and job creation. we call for simplification of the procedures for accessing european research and innovation funds and programmes. the common strategic framework for research and innovation funding must be based on the coordination of the european union's and member states' research programmes and address global societal challenges such as demographic change, sustainable resource management and a sound, stable and equitable economic base. the participation of smes in cdi collaboration projects should exceed 15%, and therefore simplification and removal of bureaucratic barriers are essential to achieve this and to the participation of industry as a whole. i call for increased funding for the development of gnss-specific applications, without which the galileo project will not be able to be used to its full capacity.
i would also like to congratulate marisa matias on her excellent report. despite the economic crisis, trends in research and innovation are promising. however, much remains to be done, particularly in those member states classified as moderately innovative. significant inequalities in financing capacity persist and are becoming more pronounced in the union. this difference is reflected in participation in the union's seventh framework programme and i believe that we need a balancing mechanism in the common strategic framework to boost the research and innovation capacities of all member states. we need new approaches to help the less-performing regions and member states, as education and innovation are crucial tools for both economic recovery and job creation. therefore, flexibility and simplification in all research and innovation programmes must be the priority of the new programming period.
research, education and innovation are the building blocks of a competitive and sound economy. in a difficult context they are essential for a sustainable economic recovery. that is why i welcome the commission's green paper, which is all the more timely in the present circumstances. i also appreciate the attention paid to reducing disparities between member states in this area. for my country, this is important, because romania is significantly below the eu average for most indicators. for example, the aggregate innovation score is less than half the european average. at the same time, i would like to underline the importance of regional cooperation, which favours the exchange of good practice. in this context, i would like to highlight romania's proposal to create an international centre for advanced studies for the danube-delta-black sea system within the framework of the eu strategy for the danube region.
increasing the efficiency of research and innovation funding is the key condition for increasing allocations to this area in line with the 3% growth target set in the eu 2020 strategy. we face a number of obstacles in the implementation of research and innovation results due to the fact that national and regional governments pursue separate strategies, which lead to a lot of duplication and fragmentation. the common strategic framework for research and innovation could therefore regulate eu funding in these areas by creating a simplified and efficient structure. the csf would allow for the implementation of an appropriate set of funding instruments through which eu objectives can be found in the member states at both local and regional level. research and innovation funding should aim to attract private investment and smes should play an important role in product initiation and development in the sectors in which they operate.
we all know that the european union has set itself the objective of increasing spending on research and innovation to 3% of the union's gdp by 2020. however, as not all member states will be able to achieve this, i believe that a strategic and integrated approach to research and innovation in the context of strategy 2020 is needed to ensure that increased public and private investment in this area is realised. as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i believe that the european commission's approach should be one that maximises synergies within the common strategic framework for research and innovation, the european agricultural fund for rural development and the structural funds, and adopts a strategy based on as many additional funds as possible, targeting research and innovation at regional level and supporting the development of the institutional capacity of regions targeting research and innovation policies.
in writing. i welcome this debate and, in the context of the report, i would like to mention the importance of a decision currently on the table of the european commission. the decision allocates €4.5 billion for research and innovation in agriculture. this is timely and welcome - the agri-food sector and agricultural production need to be supported by applied research and innovation. the report on support for developing countries in their efforts to meet the challenges of food security is also on the agenda for this evening. there is no doubt that research and innovation in agriculture is the right answer to tackle these challenges as well.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to congratulate maria koppa on her work and express on behalf of my political group my support for her position in favour of the agreement between the european union and the palestinian authority of the west bank and the gaza strip on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fisheries products. our discussion comes at a time when developments are being recorded in a process which has been blocked by decades of bloodshed. in this context, the decision to allow palestinian exports to enter the internal market more easily expresses the european union's determination to actively contribute to the process of building a functioning economy. the economic and political dimensions are interdependent in the eu's relationship with the palestinian authority. a fragile economy, extreme poverty and massive unemployment are factors fuelling the potential for conflict in the region. by encouraging trade, we are not only helping to reduce poverty, but also to strengthen political institutions. the economic development of the palestinian territories also depends on access to the european market for products from the gaza strip and the west bank. it is important that, in the application of this agreement, particular attention be paid to the rules of origin. the european court of justice's ruling in brita of 25 february 2010 is relevant in this respect, whereby the palestinian authorities are considered to be the only ones able to provide the documents attesting to the origin of the products manufactured in the gaza strip and the west bank.
rapporteur for opinion, committee on agriculture and rural development. − i was rapporteur for the opinion expressed by the committee on agriculture on this subject and i consider it important that the final report takes up our references to rural tourism and agro-tourism. rural tourism is an asset for europe and must be exploited. this sector plays a key role in keeping rural areas alive, in increasing incomes in these areas, in generating jobs. support for investment in rural tourism must continue to receive adequate funding under the future common agricultural policy, under the second pillar, where adequate funding for rural infrastructure must also be maintained, for investments that can make european villages more easily accessible and attractive. in conclusion, i would also stress the importance of the commission's call to promote eco-tourism.
tomorrow is international tourism day and the danube forum of the european parliament will organise a debate on 'tourism in the danube region' to highlight the tourism potential of this region. the development of inland waterway transport and tourism can contribute to the sustainable development of cultural, nature and leisure tourism. an effective european tourism policy requires a strategy, an action plan and adequate financial resources. the relaunch of tourism, an integral part of the european industrial policy, is a strategic objective for employment. recognising the close link between tourism and transport, we call on the commission and the member states to modernise national, regional and cross-border infrastructure for the various modes of transport. we support the promotion of integrated electronic ticketing systems for different modes of transport and call for a charter of tourist rights and responsibilities, including principles on accessibility, provision of information, price transparency and compensation. last but not least, working conditions are essential for the quality of tourist services.
the report proposes the development of a book of rights and responsibilities for tourists, including the principles of accessibility, providing information on prices and compensation in a transparent manner. the protection of tourists' rights is necessary and the drafting of a book covering all existing european consumer rights legislation is a first step in this direction. the introduction of the standard contract between tourist and operator at european level would, in my view, be the next logical step towards harmonising and protecting the rights of european tourists. the need to harmonise hotel classification by identifying common minimum standards is also very important. this harmonisation, together with other factors, forms the basis for ensuring the rights of tourists.
in writing. recent economic developments have highlighted the need for a coherent european strategy in the field of tourism. it should address social, territorial cohesion and protection of natural and cultural heritage. at the same time, it is important to develop regional policy in support of this area. the eu strategy for the danube region, a romanian-austrian initiative, is a model in this regard. one of the first results of its implementation in our country is the inauguration of the mini-port of st. george just last weekend. at the same time, europe needs to harness the resources of eco-tourism. romania, for example, is planning to set up a national network of cycling routes in areas with scenic landscapes. promoting romania's country brand provides for diversification of services so that the number of foreign tourists doubles by 2015.
in writing. in a recent ranking of the 50 most admired countries in the world, seven eu countries are among the top 10 destinations. it is clear evidence that europe has significant tourist and cultural potential, but that it still has room for development despite the economic crisis. i believe that the eu and the member states can identify new ways to attract foreign tourists to europe and encourage better mobility of tourists within the european union, especially in the context of major cultural or sporting events. multicultural europe still has many places with traditions to see, but also monuments and places less included in the classic tourist circuits, which must be visited in the context of such events. in addition, tourism operators must be encouraged and supported in attracting tourists from non-eu countries, if tourism is to continue to be a major contributor to the gross domestic product of european countries.
as other colleagues will probably wish to do this evening, i wish to express my disappointment at the populist temptations which led two european states last week to block romania's accession to the schengen area. romania and bulgaria were promised, on the date of accession to the european union, that if they met the necessary conditions, they would be admitted to schengen, but the promise was broken. i hope that the two countries will reconsider this decision as soon as possible in the near future, proving their objectivity. romania and bulgaria have met all the technical criteria for accession to the schengen area, and our citizens have the right to fully enjoy freedom of movement.
last week, the european union gave up, hopefully for a short time, one of the principles on which it was founded: equality among its members. the jha council has suspended the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, although the two countries have met all the technical criteria, according to the expert assessments. the refusal of a dutch minister to honour a promise made by the union in the accession treaties seems to me to be an exaggerated measure. this is because i believe that the dutch citizens have confidence in romania, while dutch investors rank first in my country with subscribed capital of 5.37 billion euros in almost four thousand majority-controlled companies. the question of additional criteria for accession to schengen is deeply unfair and discredits the community's construction, especially when the rules agreed upon are changed during the game.
the failure of romania's entry into schengen is one that, although explainable by the lack of capacity of romania's representatives to plead this case with conviction, unfortunately has negative effects on the entire population of romania, not only on the governors who, once again, have demonstrated that they are not up to the task entrusted to them. unfortunately, this was overlooked in the vote on romania's accession to the schengen area, with the states openly opposing it without taking into account the profound implications that a negative vote could have for romania. i hope that in the future this hostile and slightly simplistic attitude will be replaced by one that truly corresponds to the spirit of the european union, in which we do not have to punish a member state with its entire population just because it has stupid leaders.
the new education law adopted this year in romania defines the university of medicine and pharmacy in marosvásárhely, where half of the students were already of hungarian nationality, as a multicultural higher education institution. although the adopted law provides for the establishment of a separate hungarian faculty, the university's leadership, belonging to the majority nation, refuses to allow this. half of the universities attended by hungarian students and officially recognized as multicultural, obstruct medical education in hungarian by all means. this is the policy of multiculturalism and anti-minorityism that characterises the attitude towards this issue in some member states. the copenhagen criteria have examined the treatment of minorities in the candidate countries. but it must be possible to take account of the copenhagen criteria after accession. in europe, particularly in the eastern half, interethnic relations were tense. ignoring this is a huge mistake that could backfire in the future.
romania and bulgaria's accession to schengen was postponed last week for an unspecified date. two member states, the netherlands and finland, objected without giving reasons under community law. these member states have not only blocked access to the schengen area - they have blocked the fulfilment by the two states of their obligations under the treaty. i believe that the use of domestic policy considerations in european decision-making is incorrect and unproductive. the european parliament has already voted its agreement on this subject. i think that it must come back and speak very clearly, once again, particularly with regard to respect for community rules and respect between member states. we must remember a rule of good conduct: keep your word. i think it is necessary to prove at the european council in october that the union still exists. the decision must be taken that the two member states join schengen.
the current proposal for an energy efficiency directive proposes measures to reduce energy consumption by 20% by 2020, including improving technologies and reducing losses in energy systems. the romanian government has found an original solution to achieve this mandatory objective much earlier and without investment. instead of proposing measures to eliminate the heat losses of over 40% of romania's district heating system, the boc government cut the heating subsidy for low-income families. next winter, a million families will be unable to pay their heating bills and will have to relinquish their heat energy and live in the cold. thus, at national level, the 20% reduction target will be reached quickly. i call on the european commission to take action against this decision which violates the fundamental human right to a decent life.
i would like to congratulate mr koch on his report and also welcome the recent adoption of the directive on the crossborder prosecution of road traffic offences. this directive will certainly help to increase road safety at european level. given the link between high road accidents and the quality of transport infrastructure, we call on the member states to ensure the development of road transport infrastructure and compliance with the rules on road signalling and, in particular, those on signalling of road infrastructure works. we also call on the commission to adopt as soon as possible the specifications for intelligent transport systems mentioned in the intelligent transport systems directive, namely: the provision at union level of real-time traffic information services, data and procedures for the provision to users, free of charge, where possible, of minimum universal traffic information, the implementation of an interoperable system at european union level and the provision of services and information on safe parking spaces for trucks. last but not least, i would stress the importance of developing and improving road safety education programmes, especially for children and young people.
water is a scarce resource, even though it covers over 70% of the earth's surface. it is essential for life, but it can also cause major natural disasters, either through drought or flooding. we see this paradox again when we approach the subject of dams. in many cases, dams are the only way to supply power to communities isolated by mountains or rugged terrain. these systems are also a clean source of electricity. but if the construction is faulty, the impact becomes negative from an ecological and social point of view. i stress the need for any new projects in this area to be based on comprehensive impact assessments, starting with the recommendations of the world commission on dams. i therefore ask the commission to promote these issues in its dialogue with other countries.
the global food crisis is not only a growing humanitarian problem but also a major threat to world peace and security. the growing danger of food speculation, climate change, biofuels, biodiversity loss, soil degradation and pressure on water resources are the main causes of hunger, malnutrition and food insecurity. i welcome the unambiguous policy option of proposing that the right to food become a cornerstone of the european union's policy framework. ensuring food security requires the coherence and coordination of the various sectoral policies at eu level, namely development policy, the common agricultural policy, the common trade policy, energy policy and research programmes. in addition, the european union and partner countries should establish transparent monitoring mechanisms, including the participation of civil society organisations and local authorities, to ensure the proper implementation of right to food policies.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank ms zimmer for her report and all the honourable members of the parliament for their interventions on this very important topic. i am very glad that ms zimmer welcomes the commission’s communication on an eu policy framework to assist developing countries in addressing food security challenges from march 2010. i am pleased that she shares many of the policy priorities of the eu policy framework on food security. you may also be aware that the recent public debate on the future of eu development policy has clearly identified agriculture and food and nutrition security as the key areas in which the eu should promote inclusive and green growth. food and nutrition security remains a top priority for the european commission, and the commission remains fully committed to supporting its partners in stepping up investments to achieve food security. we believe that there is much potential to be utilised in developing countries to speed up progress towards the mdgs. stepping up effort is becoming ever more pressing as we continue to face mounting challenges. the current situation in the horn of africa provides the most recent and harrowing justification that now, more than ever, we must act together and provide a response both to the immediate crisis and to longer-term food security in the horn and worldwide. this is the only way to promote food and nutrition security in a sustainable manner for the most vulnerable populations and to increase their resilience. agricultural research for development has been a priority as well and it will continue to be one. in response to concerns raised in the motion for a resolution regarding the contribution of financial speculation to excessive price volatility, i would like to underline that the commission is looking into the role of speculation on the level and volatility of food prices. in any event, we must encourage better market transparency in order to contribute to the better functioning of markets and to be able to react quickly and in a coordinated manner. let me assure you that the commission is carefully monitoring the situation of rising food prices and the effects on developing and vulnerable economies, and is going to take action. the reviews of two important pieces of legislation in financial markets regulation – the markets in financial instruments directive and the market abuse directive – are currently underway and the commission’s proposals are expected this autumn. measures will be targeted at enhancing the transparency, integrity and stability of financial markets, which also includes agricultural derivatives markets. in addition, food and nutrition assistance should be as efficient and as effective as possible. the commission has just signed a statement of intent that will enhance cooperation between the commission and the three rome-based un agencies. the commission also shares the concerns of the parliament that secure access to land and secure land tenure and user rights should not be jeopardised by large-scale land acquisitions. effective national land policies and laws are essential, requiring governments to take priority action on land. in this regard, the commission supports the development and application of appropriate land policies and international guidelines. the commission believes that sustainable fisheries and aqua-culture also have an important role to play in the fight against hunger and malnutrition. i can assure you that these will remain development cooperation priorities and i am pleased that we share views on this. finally, the commission will be present at the big hearing on food security that parliament is organising next week.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour of the day, the pupils are sleeping, i hope, the teachers will soon be sleeping too, but we are watching. the report is based on the commission's last report on the european schools system and aims to improve the concept of european schools, which must be adapted to new economic requirements and changes in society. this concept must remain an inspirational model for national school systems, valuing european citizenship and promoting the development of mobility, as well as the learning of the languages of the member states, the languages of the countries of europe. the report's main points are: firstly, it contains a series of political priorities for improving this model of education in europe, in particular by establishing it on an adequate legal basis, as provided for in the merger treaty. the current legal status has reached its limits and requires a profound change which would enable the union to take action to support, coordinate or supplement the action of the member states, without, of course, substituting itself for their powers, but also to adopt legally binding acts within the meaning of articles 2 and 6 of the merger treaty. i believe that article 165 of the treaty could be a very appropriate legal basis. the european schools must serve as an example of teaching based on the dissemination of culture, values, european integration and european languages. it is therefore essential that member states cooperate in the development of their national school curricula, taking advantage of the simple example, which has worked wonderfully so far, of the european schools in terms of teaching. the opening of type 2 and type 3 schools must be strongly encouraged. it is in this spirit that the report stresses that holders of the european baccalaureate may apply for admission to any university in the union once and for all, with the same rights as nationals of that state with equivalent qualifications, since it is essential that this baccalaureate be automatically recognised in all the member states of the union. in this difficult period, i wanted to stress the absolute need to rationalise the costs of running these schools, without questioning the fundamental principles on which this concept is based, and in particular teaching in the mother tongue by native speakers, in order to preserve the quality of this education. i also believe it is essential to maintain equal and equivalent conditions of education for children of all the language communities in european schools. it is therefore in the interests of fairness that the report stresses, in accordance with article 4 of the convention on the status of european schools, that it is envisaged to generalize the use of so-called 'vehicular languages' for the teaching of all non-basic subjects, without this, of course, being to the detriment of pupils whose mother tongue is not one of these 'vehicular languages'. the lack of seconded staff also needs to be taken very seriously in order to ensure good governance of the european schools. this should be compensated by the local recruitment of lecturers whose salaries should be borne by the schools. the higher council must therefore ensure that those member states which do not contribute financially by posting teachers make an equivalent contribution to the school budget, as they are obliged to do. i also wanted to reiterate that, especially in these difficult times, the care of pupils with special educational needs remains a priority, and in this regard i asked the higher council to ensure that the coefficients are applied to this category of pupils when calculating class sizes in order to preserve their full integration. finally, madam president, commissioner, i repeat my request to the higher council to look for alternatives to enable students who are unable to remain in the sector to find vocational courses. i would not like to end this report without thanking the commission, my colleagues, the fictitious rapporteurs and rapporteurs, but also the parents' unions in particular, who have enabled us to reach a consensus to move this matter forward. sorry i stole 45 seconds from you.
welcome to the discussion of the report drawn up by mr cavada in the context of the europeanisation of national education systems. this system facilitates future labour mobility as well as maintaining cultural links with the country of origin. their major advantage is mentioned in article 40. this provides for the teaching of secondary subjects in the working languages of the european institutions. the creation of classes for students who speak rare languages also removes the communication barriers in this educational method. i would like to stress that in romania the reform of the education system has been initiated in a similar way. since 1 september there are several schools with teaching in hungarian, as in sighet, but also in ukrainian, in institutions such as taras sevcenco high school in maramureş county. i support the development of the european schools network in the member states and the exchange of good practice with national schools.
in a europe where the movement of people is becoming more dynamic, which also leads to a large flow of pupils accompanying their parents in another country, the concept of the european school needs to be promoted more at member state level. the experience of european schools in this field should also be used more effectively in the development of school curricula in the european union countries in order to achieve the best possible correlation with the european school system, especially with regard to the european baccalaureate at the end of secondary school. to this end, i believe it would be beneficial to carry out projects of twinning between european and national schools, to encourage exchanges of pupils and teachers, and to establish a joint programme at european union level dedicated to promoting the functioning of the european union, its institutions and policies among young people.
the constant enlargement of the european union and the increase in the number of staff whose children attend european schools, as well as the need to rationalise expenditure in the context of the economic crisis, have made it necessary to rethink this education system. adapting the curriculum to national education systems, for example, can facilitate the rapid reintegration of students on their return to their home country. financial constraints must also be counterbalanced by the principle of teaching subjects in the mother tongue, including languages spoken by a smaller number of citizens, which contributes to the strengthening of a common european identity. at the same time, the inclusion of a course on eu building in the school curriculum can stimulate awareness of european citizenship from an early age. equally important is the clarification of the legal status of these schools and the assumption of full responsibility by the member states for the management of the field by ensuring adequate funding and the secondment of required teaching staff. thank you and congratulations to colleague cavada.
the objective of absorbing as much financial support as possible requires ongoing efforts by the member states, and the involvement of local and regional government at every stage of the process is essential. the rules on these funds are complex, making it difficult to implement them in national law and to comply with them, which can lead to difficulties, and member states and regions spend too much time trying to manage and control these difficulties. there is a need for simpler and more flexible rules and procedures, both at union and national level, to facilitate access to european funds and to promote their sound management by the administrative services without creating major difficulties for the beneficiaries. this simplification should contribute to the rapid allocation of funds, higher absorption rates, increased efficiency and transparency, fewer errors in implementation and shorter payment deadlines. proposals in future framework documents and operational programmes must respond as closely as possible to the needs of the relevant actors.
the european union's regional policy helps to reduce disparities between regions and stimulate development and job creation. the rate at which eu funds are absorbed by the member states varies. romania has a very low absorption rate, but this should not diminish the eu funds that romania can access and needs in the 2014-2020 period. increasing the absorption of european funds requires the timely adoption of the multiannual financial framework, greater flexibility in the organisation of operational programmes, their preparation and timely adoption. we believe that more european funds are needed to develop energy infrastructure and energy efficiency measures for housing. the commission will allocate €10 billion from the cohesion fund for the period 2014-2020 to transport infrastructure in countries under the convergence criterion. this money will be managed by the trans-european transport executive agency. i ask that the national allocations be retained, even though the project applications will be released by the tnt executive agency.
i would like to start by welcoming the establishment in romania last week of the ministry of european funds, which will coordinate their management in the administrative apparatus. at present, romania and bulgaria are in difficulty in absorbing funds, especially in environmental protection. i would like to stress that in june this year the european commission stopped payments for axis 2 of the regional operational programme for our country. the commission report refers in particular to the shortcomings found in the public procurement system used for their distribution. in the context of the current crisis, these funds provide a guarantee against economic imbalances originating in the euro area. i believe that the absorption of structural funds can also be improved through regional cooperation between neighbouring countries. in view of the development of the multiannual financial perspective, 2012 is a decisive year for the implementation phase of projects financed by the european funds.
i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr theurer, including for the excellent cooperation we had during the visit to romania of the committee on regional development. of course, we have to admit it, at the moment romania still has a problem absorbing european funds. for this reason, the government has taken a whole series of measures, measures that have culminated, as we have said, in the creation of a new ministry of european affairs, where the minister is former european commissioner leonard orban. the projects started out small and of little value, but now the measures taken are beginning to materialize. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course.
the european union solidarity fund is generally functioning well, but experience gained during the first years of implementation shows that there are important limitations and weaknesses in the functioning of the fund. these are related to the lack of speed with which funding from the fund is made available, the degree of transparency of the criteria for mobilising the fund in the event of regional disasters and the delimitation of natural disasters. i would remind you that several member states have received financial support from the european union for projects in areas affected by various disasters, but the funds were not released in time to be most effective. to this end, i believe that the possibility of providing assistance in the form of an advance payment system based on the initial estimate of the damage of a country affected by a disaster, upon its request, would be a facility that would be greatly appreciated by the affected areas immediately after a disaster has occurred.
the european union and its citizens are facing an alarming increase in the number and severity of disasters. the disasters that have struck all the countries of the world demonstrate the need to strengthen a european force for rapid response to emergencies. disaster-generating events cannot be avoided, but they can be managed and their effects reduced. reducing the risk associated with natural phenomena requires a series of measures and actions embodied in policies to prevent the impact of disasters. the financial assistance of over eur 2 billion provided over the period 2002-2010 through the solidarity fund confirms the eu's key role in supporting disaster-stricken states. the money allocated, however, is hard to reach the people affected, and it is necessary to create an efficient mechanism for the immediate mobilisation of the amounts allocated from the solidarity fund, which can find a correspondent in each of the member states as quickly. thank you and congratulations to mrs. gardini.
madam president, the multiplication of natural disasters and human-produced disasters is a fact. at the same time, there is more and more strain on the national means available for response, not least because the rest of the world expects the eu to respond to their disasters, too. until now that response has been ad hoc and too bureaucratic. therefore, a complete overhaul of the entire system is indispensable, and this very detailed report provides the necessary orientation. in essence, we have to eliminate redundancies and increase the efficiency of what we want to keep. in that respect, we need to shift the emphasis from reaction to prevention, stressing monitoring, scenario preparation and education. we need to create a permanent pool of the national means placed at our disposal for such purposes and increase the flexibility of our procedures to make the entire system more operative. the main conditionality would be subsidiarity, then availability of means – both material and financial. finally, let us not forget that civil protection is entirely in line with the eu philosophy of intervention, and let us stress the civilian element over the military which, even if not entirely eliminated, will not be central.
in writing. – the 2010 floods in romania brought sudden disaster and tragic loss of life to many communities. since then, we have seen many natural disasters unfold around the world, with significant human, environmental, and economic costs. the costs of both the immediate emergency response and long-term reconstruction are considerable. so i welcome this report’s emphasis on improving the flexibility and efficiency of the solidarity fund, which can provide valuable assistance to member states and the assurance they need to release funds in the aftermath of a disaster. i also support the calls for a response capacity based on the european civil protection mechanism, which pools capabilities and expertise from across the eu so as to provide the best and most efficient expert help during times of crises. many disasters happen despite being entirely preventable. last year, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling for a complete ban on the use of cyanide technology in mining projects, because of the potential for cross-border environmental catastrophe in the event of an accident. yet despite this, the romanian government is about to approve such a mining project, which poses a grave threat to the environment and valuable cultural heritage of a whole region.
in writing. we live in an interconnected world, where damage to one element can have unintended consequences elsewhere. the lessons learned from many disasters show the important role that information and its exchange between actors play, not only in preventing but also in responding effectively to critical situations. for this reason, i consider it imperative and i support the creation of a european emergency response centre. as cooperation has enabled us to prosper at continental level and to be an economic leader for a long time, it is necessary to create a reserve of means, capacities and resources for union interventions in crisis situations, but also to act unitedly on the world stage. we must bear in mind that our environmental footprint extends far beyond the union's borders and we must therefore be solidarity-oriented not only in sharing the benefits of our actions but also in sharing the costs.
the volatility of food and commodity prices has become a major problem, adding to the poverty of millions of people and threatening the functioning of the global financial system. trade imbalances and speculative activity are at the root of this volatility, and climate change will continue to exacerbate it. a european trade policy strategy must address the central role of the union in the multilateral trading system. this long-term strategy must have clear objectives, take account of developments in the international trading system and emphasise elements consistent with union principles, such as the importance of access to generic medicines for the poorest, or the need to include fair trade, human rights and social and environmental standards automatically in all trade agreements.
in writing. although the european economy is the largest in the world, with the eu being both the main exporter and the main supplier and recipient of foreign direct investment, it is estimated that by 2015, 90% of global growth will be generated outside europe. in the years ahead, the european union must seize the opportunities offered by high levels of growth abroad. in this respect, i would like to refer to public procurement, which is an area where foreign markets are largely closed to union companies. representing on average more than 10% of gdp in these countries, public procurement constitutes significant business opportunities in sectors where eu industry is highly competitive. given that our market is already wide open, i believe that the clear priority in reciprocal access is not to close european markets but to open foreign public procurement markets. i therefore strongly urge the eu to step up its efforts to facilitate access to public procurement abroad for european companies and to eliminate discriminatory practices.
member of the commission. − as the honourable member rightly mentioned, this agreement was initialled, i would think, a little more than a year ago and you have not yet come to a decision. but once an agreement is in your hands, we are also in your hands and it is up to you to ratify or not to ratify this agreement. it is not for me to pronounce on what parliament should have done, does or does not do. yours are the powers to ratify or not to ratify. secondly, regarding the impact, we consider this to be limited at this moment in time, but obviously when we conclude an agreement with a third country, the idea is that it should also be ratified. so we will continue asking you to do so, but finally it is up to you. i give the floor to mr füle.
member of the commission. − this house has a very important role in monitoring that human rights are observed and israel and the occupied palestinian territories are no exception to that. this house also plays a very important role in helping the commission and council to uphold a balanced sectoral cooperation with our partners. it is within that context that i plea for the early adoption and consent of this house to the respective agreement as mentioned earlier. let me add that we decided some time ago not to upgrade the relationship between the european union and israel because of the current state of the middle east peace process – or rather the lack of that peace process – but let me make absolutely clear that this agreement and proposal to adopt it is very much within the current action plan we signed with israel six years ago.
commissioner de gucht, one of the international trade cases for which i was appointed rapporteur concerns the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan in the field of textiles. the problem of forced child labour in cotton harvesting, however, makes the strictly technical approach to the protocol difficult. in effect, by early october, hundreds of children will be forced to pick cotton by hand to make up for the lack of an adult workforce. this is an extreme form of child labour, which according to ngos is punished by the authorities if they do not meet the quotas imposed. the ratification by uzbekistan of the international labour organisation conventions on the minimum age for employment and the elimination of the worst forms of forced child labour is a positive signal, but there is a real implementation gap. my question is: how does the european commission see the unblocking of this situation, given that parliament cannot ignore the violation of the fundamental rights of children in uzbekistan?
member of the commission. − the honourable member did not really put a question but i imagine that he does not agree with the practice, just as i do. he is probably trying to mention the case of uzbekistan as he is known to be somebody who follows it very attentively. we are of the opinion that, at the present moment, we should not launch a special investigation on uzbekistan because we are in the ‘extra time’ of the current gsp regulation. obviously we are going to address this in the new regulation and it is also clear to me that the situation in uzbekistan is one that has to be followed attentively. we continue to insist that the authorities should take the necessary measures, but we have no intention of launching a separate investigation now because by the end of next year the gsp will also be over.
i appreciate it and thank you for your response. but i think it is necessary for the uzbek side to understand that the first step in unlocking this situation is to accept a monitoring mission from the international organisation ilo, because otherwise i see no solution for unlocking the file.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the absorption of european funds, as we need an objective analysis of both the problems and the achievements specific to the current programming period. the lessons learned here will thus play a key role in shaping a more effective cohesion policy in the future. the problems currently faced by member states in terms of regulation, eligibility, public procurement, incompatibility between union and national requirements, coupled with excessive and ineffective control and a severe lack of the necessary technical assistance, especially in the case of new member states, have the immediate effect of discouraging beneficiaries. to increase uptake, reduce errors, encourage private participation and increase efficiency, we must first simplify existing rules and procedures. we need a common set of rules for the use of european funds applicable to all member states to eliminate excessive bureaucracy imposed at national level. in addition, we must ensure that local and regional authorities are actively involved in the decision-making process.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the united mexican states on certain aspects of air services is an important first step in strengthening aviation relations between the eu and mexico. the agreement replaces certain provisions of the 13 existing bilateral agreements with a community air services agreement between eu member states and the united mexican states. the aim of the agreement is non-discriminatory access to air routes between eu member states and the united mexican states, with anti-competitive practices prohibited. mexico is an important market for eu air carriers, accounting for 2.5 million passengers and 90 000 tonnes of cargo in 2009. given the size and importance of the eu-mexico aviation market, the possibility of concluding a more comprehensive eu-mexico air transport agreement should be considered. such an agreement would strengthen eu-mexico cooperation on aviation-related issues and create more opportunities and benefits for the sector and for citizens of mexico and the eu. in addition, it would allow the eu-us open airspace to be extended, complementing the global agreements already concluded with the us, canada and brazil.
in writing. − i voted in favour of renewing the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde starting from 1 september 2011 for a duration of three years. the partnership seeks to ensure eu access to cape verde’s fertile waters and that this access is carried out in the most sustainable manner. as its fishery resources account for 2% of cape verde’s economy, it is reasonable to suggest that eu access to its waters does not encroach on the nation’s means of development. the fact that a 13% increase in funding will be given to cape verde attests to the eu’s desire to fuel its partner’s economy in return for the use of its waters. i would like to draw attention to a problem which has arisen in my own country. romania receives funding from the eu to enhance regional development, and fisheries is one sector that benefits from this funding. however, due to the regulations upholding sustainable fishing practices, a large decrease in employment has resulted. it is likewise my recommendation that the jobs of cape verdean nationals employed in the fishing industry be protected under this new agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the council decision on the conclusion of the memorandum of cooperation between the us and the eu on civil aviation research and development. the memorandum sets out the terms and conditions for ensuring cooperation between the parties to ensure global interoperability between their air traffic management (atm) modernization programmes, nextgen and sesar, taking into account the interests of civil and military airspace users. the objectives of the memorandum may be achieved through cooperation in areas such as: exchange of information on programmes and projects, research results or publications; joint analysis; coordination and implementation of research and development projects and programmes on the basis of joint efforts; exchange of scientific and technical personnel; exchange of research equipment, software and systems specific to research activities and compatibility studies; joint organisation of symposia or conferences and mutual consultation with a view to establishing a framework for concerted action in appropriate international organisations. the implementation of joint aviation research and development programmes will promote and develop cooperation in this field and contribute to the improvement of civil aviation safety in the united states of america and the european union.
in writing. − the european union has failed to confirm its status as the richest region in the world in terms of research and innovation funding. this is also due to the newly-acquired states within the union, which are faced with major efforts to manage the limited revenues of the economic crisis in areas with short-term social impact. research and innovation are not immediately visible, but they produce results with an impact on the future when they take place against a background of efficiency. the total volume of european investment in research and innovation has indeed increased in recent years, but it has not contributed to the cohesion of europe. investments vary enormously from country to country. only 6 countries currently invest more than 2% of gdp in research and innovation, 10 countries invest less than 1% of gdp and 11 others between 1 and 2%. unfortunately, romania is among the countries that allocate less than 1% of gdp to research. i hope that the green paper initiative for a common eu strategic framework for research and innovation will give a boost to this area.
in writing. − the lack of research and innovation is one of the major causes of the gap in economic growth between the eu and other developed economies such as the us. therefore, to ensure strong and sustainable economic growth, we need a coherent strategy to make research and innovation more efficient and to facilitate the market penetration of innovative products. it considers that partnership between research centres, universities, businesses, civil society and public authorities is necessary to ensure that research and innovation respond as effectively as possible to the needs of society and to ensure coherence and convergence of the actions of those involved in the process. it would also be desirable that the objectives of research and innovation be, as far as possible, consistent with industrial policy. last but not least, i believe that efforts should be made to simplify the rules applicable to participation in the various research projects, as universities and smes do not have the human and time resources required for overly complex administrative procedures. a balance must therefore be struck between the need to control the spending of money and the administrative burden that control generates. this simplification would facilitate the participation of smes in research projects, which is absolutely essential given their innovation potential.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i believe that the european commission's approach should be to maximise the synergies between the common strategic framework for research and innovation, the european agricultural and rural development fund, the structural funds and to adopt a strategy based on as many additional funds as possible to target research and innovation at regional level, as well as to support the institutional capacity building of regions targeted by agricultural research and innovation policies.
in writing. − i voted for the report on eu research and innovation funding because i support the creation of a common strategic framework for research and innovation funding after 2013. it can strengthen the european area and lead to the development of an effective convergence strategy. however, there are many differences in europe today in terms of both the r & d capacity and the industrial structure of the various member states. we therefore need to step up cooperation at european level, and cohesion funding must complement the future common framework so that the least-developed countries have greater access to available funds and can develop effective projects. improving regional convergence and balance at european level will strengthen europe's global competitiveness and bring economic growth, job creation and research sustainability. i support the rapporteur's position in stressing the need to simplify procedures and increase transparency in order to reduce bureaucratic and administrative costs and to facilitate a wider opening up of funding programmes.
in writing. - i support the matias report because it clearly sets out the objectives we must have in this area, putting researchers first. the european institutions must work together to achieve common objectives. in this way, they can help us to provide opportunities for those who want to focus on research, so that the results of this activity create added value. we must also acknowledge that local authorities are an important tool for relaunching research. i believe that the report is an important step in strengthening research and innovation and can offer europe the opportunity to compete with the united states in this field.
in writing. − in line with what i have said so far about the role of smes in the economic development and competitiveness of the union, i believe that research and innovation funding should go to private companies, especially smes. they need funds, new products and services that create new jobs and so, in the next programming period, cohesion policy and research and innovation must go hand in hand through common objectives and activities. i believe that smes need access to research and innovation services in particular when the services provided to public sector clients include added value. health is one of the areas that needs new solutions that enable the elderly population and not just face the difficulties generated by one disease or another. infrastructures that can be created at local and regional level with cohesion policy funding will also need state-of-the-art technology to be able, for example, to continue research in the field of cancer, a field that you already know i support.
in writing. − the european union contributes to the development of quality education by encouraging cooperation between member states and by supporting and complementing their action, while fully respecting the responsibility of member states for the content of education and the organisation of the education system, as well as their cultural and linguistic diversity. the statute provides that the european schools system is a sui generis one and constitutes a form of cooperation between the member states and between them and the european communities, while recognising the full responsibility of the member states for the content of education and the organisation of the education system, as well as their cultural and linguistic diversity. european schools were created to guarantee the education of the children of staff of the european institutions who work and live abroad in a different cultural environment. they give pupils the opportunity to assert their cultural identity and to acquire a high level of knowledge of at least two languages, including their mother tongue, which they are encouraged to learn from a very early age, emphasising the importance of cultural diversity and cultivating mutual understanding and respect. the performance of european schools is indeed positive and it is clear that this concept is a model that inspires national school systems in terms of promoting european citizenship.
in writing. − proper use of the esf can support the efforts of local, regional and national authorities to improve the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy in the field of employment and social inclusion. this will allow for an appropriate development of human capital, but it also requires a closer link with the specificities and needs of the member states and regions. i consider it useful to identify a limited number of priorities for the successful implementation of union-funded projects, as well as adequate publicity for the programme in order to increase the number of beneficiaries and create new jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider the absorption of the structural and cohesion funds to be one of the main priorities in the implementation of eu cohesion policy. the absorption capacity is essential to make the maximum contribution to the eu's economic and social cohesion using the resources available from the funds. the objective of absorbing this much-needed financial support requires both ongoing efforts by the member states and the involvement of local and regional government at every stage of the process. i support the rapporteur's position on the need to simplify rules and procedures in order to achieve higher absorption rates, reduce errors and increase efficiency. i agree that a balance should be struck between simplification and the stability of rules and procedures. last but not least, a very important aspect highlighted in this report is the existence of large differences in the absorption capacity of the member states. therefore, increased attention should be paid to the establishment of cooperation programmes between member states for the exchange of good practice.
in writing. − we have all had to learn during this programming period and it is clear that the management and control system raises serious operational problems for some member states that need to make the most of the lessons learned. the first proof will be the involvement of all local and regional stakeholders in the programming phase. it is essential that potential applicants or beneficiaries are involved in the preparation of operational programmes, which will thus become more relevant and better suited to their needs. we also need to pay more attention to administrative capacity, i.e. human resources at both local and regional and national levels. i believe that the attraction and retention of qualified staff can be improved. it is therefore useful for the member states to understand that even technical assistance or esf funds can be used for this and i am confident that this will happen.
in writing. − the european union and its member states face many risks, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, landslides, industrial and nuclear accidents, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and major pandemics. recently, there has been a dramatic increase in the number and severity of these natural and man-made disasters, affecting citizens worldwide with corresponding increases in loss of life, economic, social and environmental damage and damage to cultural heritage. we cannot exclude the possibility of such extreme events of unpredictable magnitude occurring at any time, in which case the european response to disasters would prove extremely useful, as national capacities could be tested to the limit. i therefore believe that scientific research in this area needs to be developed with a view to improving risk assessment mechanisms, prevention systems and the means of combating these phenomena. the most effective disaster management strategy is an integrated approach to crisis response at all stages, taking into account all risks and linking disaster prevention with preparedness, response and recovery in the broader context of sustainable development.
in writing. − i would like to remind you that romania was financially supported by the european union for projects in the flood-stricken areas, but the release of funds was delayed compared to the time when it would have been most effective. to this end, i consider that the possibility of providing assistance, in the form of an advance payment system based on the initial estimate of direct damage, to a country affected by a disaster, upon its request, would be a facility that would be highly appreciated by the affected areas immediately after a disaster.
in writing. − in my view, as i have already argued in numerous interventions, the european commission should take steps to allow the eu solidarity fund to be more flexible and to simplify its administrative rules, as such a simplification of administrative procedures would speed up the payments made and ensure that those in need of support receive payments immediately. another observation made over time in the regi commission is that european regions on the eu's borders can be affected by disasters in regions in third countries, in which case intervention is even more difficult. it is therefore imperative to develop specific measures to support these regions, taking into account man-made disasters and industrial accidents, which require different strategies. last but not least, the commission must ensure in the future that member states involve regional and local authorities in disaster response from the outset, based on the multi-level governance model applied in the field of cohesion policy, through a communication strategy that benefits all actors involved in the response mechanism.
in writing. - we live in a time of increasing disasters. the annual number of recorded disasters worldwide has increased fivefold in the last 35 years, to nearly 400 today. disasters in europe over the past 20 years have killed nearly 90 000 people, affected more than 29 million people and caused economic losses of eur 211 billion. we voted for this report to create the mechanism for increasing efficiency at all stages of the european disaster management cycle, including prevention, preparedness, response and recovery, while optimising economic resources during times of austerity. this approach enjoys overwhelming support from around 90% of european citizens, who expect the eu to do more to help their country when it is hit by a disaster, with a similar percentage supporting eu humanitarian action outside the eu. i stress the importance of all member states contributing, in a spirit of european solidarity, to the european response to disasters.
in writing. − although euro banknotes and coins were put into circulation in 2002, the market for the transport of euro cash by road remains highly fragmented due to the wide differences between national rules in this area, which make it significantly difficult for professional cash handlers to provide crossborder services. the purpose of this regulation is therefore to simplify those regulatory constraints in order to allow for a better circulation of euro banknotes and coins between euro area member states. given the particular dangers of transporting funds, this regulation should contribute to strengthening public security requirements both for the security staff providing transport and for the general public. as regards the various methods of transporting funds, member states should be able to choose as many options as they wish from the five transport modes for banknotes and the two transport modes for coins provided for by the regulation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that there are sufficiently clear and operational rules for cash carriers in and for the state authorities.
in writing. − tourism contributes to the enrichment of the human spirit, to the achievement of exchanges, to well-being, to the development of culture, and to social cohesion. the aim of the project is to promote the development of tourism in the european union by promoting the development of tourism-related activities and activities, and by promoting the development of tourism-related activities. the diversity, variety and multiculturalism of europe enhance any form of thematic tourism, and the development and promotion of diversified forms of tourism can be the only effective solution against the distortions, problems and deterioration caused by the unregulated and undifferentiated mass tourism model. the development of tourism plays a key role in enhancing the regional dimension within the european union. tourism is a very important economic resource and the main calling card that europe presents to the world. at the same time, i believe that european tourism is not being exploited to its true potential. europe has a lot to offer both its own citizens and the rest of the world. i therefore urge the member states to facilitate and promote the training of tourism operators, to support the diversification and specialisation of european tourism and to encourage tourism organisations to exchange good practice.
in writing. − in its strategy for promoting european tourism, i believe that the union should consider and stimulate cooperation between regions in the framework of interregional projects, which will allow the promotion of their specific traditions, especially those of regions in different member states with common traditions, as well as the promotion of sites important to the history of the european union, especially those not included in traditional tourist circuits.
in writing. − there is now a growing talk about increasing the eu's global competitiveness, and tourism is one of the most important socioeconomic activities, generating a good part of the european union's gdp. i believe that the strategy presented by the commission represents a concrete starting point for the development of sustainable, competitive, modern, high-quality and accessible tourism. we must do everything we can to remain the world's number one tourist destination and to do that we must make the most of all possible funding opportunities. in this context, i call on the european executive to develop and mobilise specific community support instruments and programmes for the development of european tourism, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − talking about road safety is a duty of the authorities of any state. just like they have to talk about a great health care system to save lives and good schools to educate. romania is trying to have safer roads. we're still far from ideal, but statistics show that each year the number of accidents with casualties is decreasing. romania ranks 24th out of 27 member states in the criterion that measures safety on public roads. it's a place that does not honor us and that forces us to take serious action. road fatalities have dropped by 11% since 2001. but we know that people are not numbers and behind every accident is the drama of many families and the drama of loss of human life. romania is aware that it needs to learn from the experience of other member states that have managed to significantly reduce the number of fatal road accidents. romania has a chance to achieve this goal faster by learning from and benefiting from the experience of other eu member states. romania has committed itself to the european union's goal of reducing the number of serious accidents on romanian roads by at least half by 2020.
in writing. − water is a scarce natural resource, which requires an analysis of the fairness of its allocation. it should therefore be stressed that rethinking the management of freshwater resources in the context of climate change is undoubtedly a key challenge for the whole world. on the other hand, no other natural phenomenon has proved more destructive in terms of damage or loss of life than floods in the last century, despite billions of dollars spent on flood management. i believe that balanced investment in management measures and improvements in water collection and storage methods is needed to increase efficient and sustainable water uses, to mitigate the effect of floods and recurrent droughts and to achieve minimum water security. i urge priority to be given to investments that reduce rural poverty, strengthen climate resilience and adaptation and stimulate cooperation in the international watershed.
in writing. − global demand for agricultural products is estimated to increase by around 70% by 2050 and the world population is also estimated to reach 9 billion by then. as food insecurity is aggravated by many factors, but particularly climate change, i believe it is necessary and urgent for the european union to take action to restore food stocks which have fallen to record levels in recent years, which has implicitly led to speculation on the prices of agricultural products on the market. as a women's rights advocate, i strongly believe that women, as smallholder farmers, play a fundamental role in food and nutrition security for themselves and their children. in this context, i believe that the european union must adopt a strategy to encourage and secure livelihoods for women and to improve knowledge of proper nutrition. last but not least, i should mention that the european commission should focus on implementing a set of measures so that women, as small farmers, benefit from agricultural training opportunities, nutrition education, good health and working conditions, and food safety measures.
in writing. - i voted against paragraph 63 of the zimmer report on an eu policy framework to support developing countries in their efforts to meet the challenges of food security. the claims in this paragraph are not supported by the facts and i do not believe that we should, in these circumstances, advocate either the 'elimination of export subsidies' or the elimination of all other 'incentives in the cap which have the effect of distorting trade'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on supporting developing countries in their efforts to meet food security challenges. access to decent food is a universal right. according to fao, in 2010, 925 million people were affected by hunger. globally, 26% of children under five years of age are malnourished, and over a third of deaths among children under five years of age are due to malnutrition. i emphasize the role of smallholder farmers in developing countries and in particular the role of women in ensuring nutritional security for themselves and their children. small farmers must use sustainable agricultural practices and have access to microcredit. in view of the growing population and the increasing pressure on natural resources, it is essential to ensure sustainable and efficient agricultural production on a global scale. the fao reported in february 2011 that food prices have reached an all-time high and will continue to rise. i call on the commission and the member states to invest in agriculture so that the eu can improve its production capacity to help meet both its own needs and to export agricultural products to third countries.
in writing. − economic growth, prosperity, jobs and the maintenance of the european social model are closely linked and mutually supportive. this report sets out how trade and investment policy should contribute to these objectives, as well as to foreign policy objectives in general. in addition, trade policy is one of the main tools available to the eu to support progress in reform and democratisation. trade stimulates efficiency and the spirit of innovation. europe must reap the benefits of greater openness to trade and investment, while remaining vigilant to the costs of adjustment: stronger growth, more jobs and lower consumer prices. trade should also bring improvements in social inclusion, both globally and in the eu. developing countries that have entered into world trade and global production chains have benefited from rapidly growing incomes and labour markets, as well as significant poverty reduction. the rapporteur gives greater transparency and legitimacy to the european union's trade policy. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr caspary because i believe that the eu needs a coherent trade strategy to strengthen european competitiveness in world trade. as a result of changing areas of economic influence, europe is faced with international challenges. trade needs to be based on fair global competition and full reciprocity. the fragmentation of the production system at european and international level has highlighted the need for liberalisation of the services sector. the quality and price of services play a crucial role in the efficiency of firms. to have a competitive and sustainable economy, the eu needs an internal services policy. attention should also be paid to the development of information technologies. this sector has brought about fundamental changes in the world trading system.
in writing. − europe needs to rethink its trade policies because the evolution of trade policies in recent years shows that the focus is beginning to shift towards developing countries. exports are a prerequisite for economic growth and job creation or growth. international trade in the european union faces several challenges. in 2000, the eu and the us together accounted for 48% of world gdp. but estimates show that by 2020 they will only be 35 percent. while in 1999 eu exports accounted for 19% of the global total, in 2009 the percentage dropped to 17%. the center of gravity of the world economy is shifting to the developing world. in the eu, 36 million jobs (18% of the total) are directly linked to international trade. it is estimated that by 2015, 90% of global economic growth will be generated outside the eu, leading to increased dependence on the union's trade. in these circumstances, the european parliament's call to the european commission to consider policies to boost trade policies in the long term is welcome. we have a duty to think of the future as well as the present.
in writing. - i fully agree with this report because it raises a key issue in the difficult period we are currently living through: the decline of the european union's global trading power. despite the urgent need for action, i support the idea of a long-term economic strategy that will lead to economic growth and stability. in this respect, the european union must aim, both internally and internationally, at harmonising standards and removing the various barriers to trade and investment. that said, as a member of the committee on the internal market, i am pleased to see that the report stresses the importance of balancing these objectives on the one hand and maintaining high technical standards and economic balance within the european union on the other. last but not least, given the social mission of the european union, i fully support the commitment expressed in this report to fight poverty and to respect fundamental values such as the protection of human rights or the rule of law in the implementation of these measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on 'a new trade policy for europe in line with the europa 2020 strategy', as economic growth, prosperity, jobs and the european social model also depend to a large extent on the eu's trade policy. the commission estimates that 18% of the union workforce (36 million jobs) is dependent on the union's trade performance. european industry is facing increasing global competition from industrialised and emerging countries such as china, india and the states of the mercosur region in terms of access to resources, technological innovation, skilled labour as well as industrial and innovation policies. the eu is today india's most important source of foreign direct investment (fdi), accounting for 27% of total fdi in 2009, and trade between the eu and mercosur amounts to around eur 100 billion annually. the development of the eu's industrial policy depends on the availability of resources and raw materials. the eu's future trade policy must therefore aim to secure raw materials and resources so that industrial production and jobs are kept within the eu.
last month, the gaddafi regime collapsed after rebels took the capital. today, pro-ntc forces control the port of sirte, which means that very soon libya will be able to engage in a transition to democracy. in syria, the regime of bashar al-assad will very likely soon meet the same fate. while tunisians, egyptians, libyans and, hopefully, all of us, soon, syrians, are discovering the taste of freedom, the landscape is very different in the middle east. if north africa is on the agenda for democratization and will succeed if it establishes a policy based on compromise, we see something quite different in the middle east peace process. it is not the consensus construct that seems to prevail here, but a one-sided vision. that, in my opinion, is the meaning of the application for membership of the united nations submitted by president abbas on friday. instead of trying to build genuine internal autonomy before imposing it internationally, president abbas has chosen, as president obama said, an illusory shortcut. the palestinian accession request is in fact going beyond the negotiating framework defined by the oslo accords and specified in the roadmap presented by the quartet in 2003. peace is built through negotiation, not unilateral action. the lesson of the arab spring for the peace process should be that democracy means seeking consensus and not unilateralism.
on the basis of the good bilateral relations it has developed with both israel and the palestinian national authority, romania has always encouraged the parties to sit down at the negotiating table without preconditions. my position on this subject is a principled one. resuming negotiations is the best course of action to achieve a two-state solution that will allow for peace and security. i believe that unilateral action is not conducive to the establishment of a lasting peace, which is the fundamental objective of the entire international community. i strongly believe that the only way to fulfill the palestinian ideals is through direct negotiations. i will support any initiative that might serve that purpose, as i have done so far. there can be no viable long-term solution unless there is an agreement between the palestinians and the israelis. any recognition of palestine as a state must be based on a mutually acceptable solution with which both sides can go to the un. finally, i welcome the quartet statement calling on both sides to resume direct bilateral negotiations immediately and without preconditions. it is not too late for diplomatic efforts, on the contrary it is time to step them up.
first of all, i want to congratulate you on all your work. the solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict can only be achieved through direct and responsible negotiations between the two parties with the support of the international community. i therefore believe that any unilateral action should have been avoided, as it affects mutual trust and jeopardises the continuation of the peace process. the way out of the impasse caused by the unilateral action of the palestinian authority at the un must be the immediate resumption of direct negotiations between the two parties under the supervision of the quartet. i think it's time for the palestinian authority to prove that it's committed to a direct negotiated solution and, in the same way and to the same extent, israel must be willing to make real compromises in these negotiations. the two-state solution, based on the 1967 borders, is the only viable solution for peace.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, can i just say to honourable members that we have seen the debate laid out before us? if you add up all the different views expressed in this house, you will find that they reflect, and are reflected in, many of the conversations that i have had, not just in the european union, but with many other countries as well. let us start where we agree. we agree that there should be a palestinian state. everybody supports that, including israel. i agree with all of you who have said that it is important to see a palestinian state come into being as soon as possible. the question is how to support the palestinian state into being in a way that will bring long-term peace and security to its people and to the people of israel, who will be its neighbours next door. i would argue that we are discussing the question of how – not if, not whether, not any other question, but how – to make sure that is achieved. it has been the view of the european union, the view of this house and the view of member states for a long time that the most effective way to ensure long-term stability and security for the people of israel and the people of palestine is through an agreement between the two on borders, on security, on the rights of refugees, on the issue of jerusalem, on all of the issues that are very familiar to everybody here. that is what i am determined upon. i am determined upon reality. i am determined upon making sure that the desire of the people, the desire of president abbas and prime minister fayyad, is achieved and is achieved in a way that they can be sure is going to bring that peace and security to them and to the region. that is what drives me and what motivates me to work with the member states, to work with you, to work with my colleagues in the commission, and to work internationally with the quartet and – way beyond the quartet – with many countries with whom i have discussed this issue, not just in new york last week, but over the past two years. i want to be clear about one thing, namely about settlements. i have condemned it every time a settlement announcement has been made – six times this year from me, plus one local one and one quartet one. i have checked the numbers. the announcement that was made today is an announcement of the continuation of a series of legal moves following on from an announcement that was made in 2009. i said earlier on that i deeply regretted that, having condemned that original announcement, we have now seen a move further forward. we have made that position clear, not just in this house, but also to the israeli government. can i also say that, instead of shouting about it – which is very easy to do, perhaps without listening for the response that you get – i say this to prime minister netanyahu directly. each time i have met him – and i have met him many times – i have made it clear that we consider settlements to be illegal under international law, and that he should stop announcing them and, more importantly, stop building them. i do not accept, i am afraid, what is said to me that somehow, by not using a particular word, i have moved away from my commitment, because i am the one who, on your behalf, is saying it to the person who has the power to make the difference. i will continue to do so in every conversation, not just because it is wrong. i think that it is wrong to get people to live in a place from which, when you look at a negotiated settlement, they are probably going to have to move. that does not make any sense, to me, for the people who are moving in to that area. it is not a good move if you believe – as i do – that we have to reach a conclusion and a settlement for this conflict that is going to be based upon – as we have said consistently – the 1967 borders, with agreements on moving bits of land around, but which give the palestinians a viable contiguous state. that is going to mean that there will have to be changes. it is therefore in the interests of all the people of israel and palestine to get there and make sure that where people move and where people live is somewhere they can live for the rest of their lives if they choose to. i also want to make it clear that i have said to israel that i do believe in president abbas and prime minister fayyad. they have people with whom they can be proud to negotiate. i believe that president abbas and prime minister fayyad, who i have had the privilege to get to know over the last two years, are people who hold the values that we hold dear in their heart. i believe that they want to see a democratic palestine, based on the rule of law and the values of human rights. i believe that israel could do no better than to negotiate with them. i have also said that directly to prime minister netanyahu, to foreign minister lieberman and to other members inside and outside the israeli government and in the knesset. i will continue to keep saying that, because i believe it to be true. i have said many times that i think that the work that prime minister fayyad has done has been remarkable in that, according not to me but to the world bank and other institutions, he has completed the building of the institutions that will create the state of palestine and will enable them to be able to function as a state – an important element if they are going to become a country, in the very near future i hope. i was fortunate enough to go with prime minister fayyad to lay the foundation stone in jenin, a town that has seen a lot of conflict but where they are rebuilding the architecture of the government buildings and which we, as the european union, are privileged to be able to fund. i said in the un when i met with the ad hoc liaison committee under the chairmanship of norway – to whom i pay great tribute – that i felt this was a good investment of our resources, because you can see what our money and our support has actually built and achieved. i think that we should be proud to be investing in the work of prime minister fayyad. as i say, i pay tribute to him. we have to make sure that everything that we are doing on this is actually going to help to lead to the results. that is why i have been working with the israeli government, the palestinian authority, the arab league, the united states, canada, russia, and the un especially – because i agree with what has been said about the value and importance of the un in all this. i could not agree more. i think the united nations are critical to all this, but what matters is what we are actually able to achieve. the point about what we did in the quartet statement was that we laid out a time frame and invited the parties to now come together in that time frame. there are issues that they will have to resolve, which is why we suggested they pre-meet. there are issues that the quartet envoys will need to discuss, which is why they will pre-meet with the parties, but the objective is to get this thing moving. i understand the frustration in this house. i have only been doing this for up to two years. i can tell you that i have spent more time on this than on anything else i have done. i have to tell you that, today, i am actually as worried, if not more so, about what is happening in the north of kosovo, as you would expect me to be. it is really important that whatever we do finds a conclusion that is really going to last. i am not going to do something that is just rhetoric. i am much more interested in a solution that is going to be for real. of course, when they come to negotiate, they will have to tackle all these issues in the conclusions. of course, incidentally, we believe in the international criminal court. that has never been discussed as part of a conclusion of negotiations – nothing of that kind –, but we do need to make sure that we actually get that. i will continue to do that, based on the fact that i am also trying to carry 27 member states along the road with me. it is really important to understand how much the unity of the european union on this subject is valued in the region, not just in israel, not just with the palestinian people and the israeli people, but with the arab league and with the countries in the region. they really want to see us stick together and see that happen for real. you will understand that that means that i also have to be alive to the starting points, the history, the culture and the connections that all 27 countries have. i am sensitive to that. it is an achievement for the european union that we are still together. we are continuing to work to stay there, because what we offer, united in this process, is much more than radical positions on either end of the spectrum, or even the bulk of countries coming together in the middle. it is the fact that we are 27 speaking with one voice and one message that makes a big difference, but it is not easy. we have to work at this and keep working at it. that is why your support today is so important, because it enables me to take that away. i have said enough on this. let me just say one or two things about other countries because, rightly so, honourable members raised one or two other issues. mr fox raised the issue of yemen. i agree on the importance of working hard with the gcc. i mentioned that we coordinated our statements on yemen very carefully. there is calm at the moment, but i am worried about some outbreaks of violence that have gone on in the last few days. we urge president saleh to continue with the process and to make sure that the work that is being carried out by his vice-president can come forward. on libya, as you know, we have had teams going to tripoli. we have a team there at the present time that is setting up the long-term operation. on the specific issue of borders, we are launching a dialogue on migration, mobility and security with tunisia and morocco. we are ready to do the same with libya. that specifically brings in this point on migration and mobility – not just on security, although of course that is very important. women are full of hope in the region. we have to make sure that we do not let them down. one of the key elements of the discussions in new york was women coming together to try to make sure that we are able to offer the support of the capacity-building programmes already in place in libya. looking after women who are victims in all of this violence – and there are many of them – and also ensuring the participation of women right the way through the system is a huge issue that is of incredible importance to me. finally, regarding the issues of rules and conditionality, stefan füle has set out very well many times in this house the point about ‘more for more’. this is the idea that we make sure that reform is met with greater support, but also this mutual accountability of ensuring that we have respect for each other in what we do, that we do what we say we are going to do on both sides, and that we deliver what we say we are going to deliver to help support these communities into the future. then, of course, there is the coordination which is so important, between not just the different the european institutions, but also the member states. in libya, that is going to be really important if we are going to be able to offer the support that we want to. madam president, thank you for indulging me on time. honourable members, thank you very much for an important debate. (applause)
in writing. – ever since the arab spring began, one question imposed itself: would those revolutionary developments speed up or delay resolution of the middle east conflict, which is one that has the potential to ignite an international conflagration? well, now, many months after, although things are no clearer, one can detect a slight tilt of the balance towards the latter. in that respect, i am particularly concerned at the possibility that the new revolutionary authorities in those countries, faced with the impossibility of fulfilling the high expectations of their populations, might try to deflect popular energy towards israel. this might be true even for the palestinian authorities, which probably saw in the recent request for un state recognition a way to escape possible contestation from ordinary palestinians, emboldened by the example of their other arab brothers. it looks as if, recently, both hamas and fatah have been losing ground. irrespective of whether these suppositions are true or not, the potential implications of a worsening of the middle east conflict would only underline the crucial importance of eu involvement and support in the region.
mr president, the warsaw summit will acknowledge the european aspirations of our east european partners. that is true, but is it enough or is it a ritual phrase unfit for the political realities developing along our eastern borders? at a time when tymoshenko is subjected to a stalinist trial, at a time when putin and medvedev swap places like interchangeable tsars, our message should reaffirm the democratic alternative, as a counterweight to the putinist contagion that threatens the whole area. and yet our messages are not exactly convincing. membership prospects are almost taboo. liberalisation and trade agreements are moving forward, but at a slow pace. the focus on the events in the south has generated frustration in the east. our partners have reason to believe that they have been downgraded. the nabucco project is less visible than it used to be. the mediation capacity of the union cannot properly deal with so-called frozen conflicts. as a result, the frozen conflicts are ready to ignite. to sum it up, all is quiet on the eastern front. this deficit of political will does not encourage our partners to pursue democratic reforms. this could add a strategic and an energy crisis, which would multiply the economic crisis that we already know. the eastern dimension of our policies is ours to develop.
mr president, the eastern partnership has been our response to the interruption of gas supply from russia and to the conflict in georgia. we wanted to reassure the eastern countries that they were not forgotten and their hope to get closer to the eu is a tangible expectation. the fact that all these countries belong to the former soviet space has inevitably brought russia into the equation, complicating it from the very beginning. moreover, since then, the current problems in the eu created by the crisis, and the unexpected developments in north africa, have complicated matters even further, while not deterring russia from taking advantage of these difficulties. i would only hope that when the negotiations on the association agreements are completed, there will not be any last-minute political change of heart, on our part, in honouring them.
the eastern partnership represents a great opportunity for the countries of the european union's eastern neighbourhood and can become a real engine for political and economic stability, security and prosperity in these countries. i therefore believe that this initiative launched in 2009 should not only be continued but also strengthened. i am pleased that the polish presidency is making the eastern partnership a priority and i am confident that thursday's summit will give a new impetus to cooperation with these countries. we need to take into account the findings of the implementation report and the various country reports and thus come up with solutions that match the progress and specific needs of each country. the future actions of this cooperation must also bring the most tangible benefits to the citizens of these countries, which will encourage them in their efforts towards democratisation and economic development. last but not least, we need adequate financial resources, and it will be important to allocate an ambitious percentage to the eastern partnership for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. i believe that improving relations with our neighbours in the east is very important and we must support the consolidation of democracy in these countries. the prague declaration, followed by the launch of the eastern partnership, includes an initiative containing the following phrase 'we will take steps towards visa liberalisation'. we cannot talk about a rapprochement with the eastern partnership countries without taking this important step seriously. a positive note was noted in chisinau, where the latest developments in the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, as well as the european commission's first progress report, recently published, were presented at the expanded meeting of the working group on the coordination of the visa liberalisation process with the eu. the eu should remove the 'long-term objective' from all relevant visa liberalisation documents, including from the draft association agreements with moldova as well as with other eastern partnership countries. by promoting citizens' mobility and contacts with the eu, we are also supporting the development of countries in europe's neighbourhood, such as the republic of moldova. visa liberalisation promotes good understanding, links with civil society and intercultural exchanges. this would be a first sign that the eastern partnership's intentions are open and serious.
in writing. the eastern partnership summit is an important opportunity to strengthen and refine the union's relationship with the countries of the east. welcomes the approach of the commission and the high representative catherine ashton, set out in communication com ((2011) 303), to treat each country in the union's neighbourhood policy on its merits (the principle of differentiation/'more for more') and on the basis of clear criteria; the republic of moldova is a model for the eastern partnership. over the past two years, the alliance for european integration has initiated important reforms in constant consultation with the union. i welcome the explicit reference by the european parliament to the prospect of the republic of moldova's accession to the eu, in accordance with article 49 of the treaty (the recent resolution on the association agreement). the accession perspective is important for reformers in this country, it is the motivation and the stimulus for efforts to continue and implement the necessary reforms. the european parliament also called for the opening of negotiations with the republic of moldova on the free trade agreement by the end of 2011 and for increased efforts to be made to resolve the conflict in the transnistrian region, while respecting the territorial integrity of the republic of moldova. i welcome prime minister vlad filat's recent announcement of the resumption of formal negotiations in the 5+2 format and i consider relevant his vision of replacing troops in the transnistrian region with a civilian mission. it is important that the eu has a greater role in these negotiations.
in writing. the warsaw summit is an important moment to analyse the progress made in the union's eastern neighbourhood as a basis for developing concrete policies for a common future. the european union must support the democratic transition in the eastern partnership countries. i therefore believe that a key step in this direction is to set out a clear perspective for the accession of partner countries and to implement the structural reforms needed to align with european policies and rules. i would like to stress the need for concrete commitments by the union in the area of the conclusion of association and free trade agreements, and the importance of visa liberalisation for eastern european partners. we should also not forget the role of local and regional authorities in harmonising relations within the eastern partnership. their contribution is essential and should be focused in particular on territorial development, supporting mutual contacts and improving economic relations. eastern partnership countries also need to take important steps to increase respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. the union's objective in the eastern neighbourhood must be centred around the creation of a democratic and stable region, guaranteeing respect for freedom, dignity and fundamental rights.
in writing. – i would like to underline three main ideas. first of all, i consider that the perspective of membership should be the silver thread that guides our relations with the eastern neighbours. not only do these countries belong geographically to our continent, but they are deeply interlinked with the eu through both history and culture. enlargement has been the most successful foreign policy tool of the eu and can serve as a strong incentive for internal reforms aiming to reach deep democracy in these countries. nevertheless, we all understand that membership of the eu will not be accomplished tomorrow. not only because of the enlargement fatigue, but also because these internal reforms take time and sometimes steps forward can be followed by steps backwards, as the case of ukraine proves it so clearly. this is why we should pursue firmly the objective of visa liberalisation, in order to provide people-to-people contacts. a democratic evolution of these countries through emulation of already set standards can only come along in this way. finally, we should apply the principle more for more, encouraging countries such as georgia or moldova, that have made significant progress lately and whose willingness for reform must be wholeheartedly welcomed.
in writing. the turkish-cypriot conflict - frozen by the international community's inability to get the parties to reach a negotiated solution - is re-emerging in a highly tense international context, particularly in the mediterranean. and turkey has its share of responsibility in escalating tensions in the region. after deteriorating relations with israel, the turkish government - faithful to the aggressive policy of recent years - decided to counter the cypriot government's intention to explore gas fields off the island, launching its own exploitation in the eastern mediterranean. this policy of force threatens the negotiations between the turkish and greek communities for the reunification of cyprus. it also risks blowing up a region already affected by political change and economic problems. i believe it is the duty of the european union to firmly reject these challenges and to show full solidarity with a member state that is the victim of threats from a third country. we strongly urge turkey to refrain from any hostile action if it wishes to remain a respected partner. the threat of a freeze on relations with the eu if cyprus takes over the union's presidency next year calls into question both turkey's european perspective and the future of bilateral relations.
there have been a number of concerns expressed here today about the future of the european union, but we also had a promising speech from the executive on the way out of the crisis and the future of the european union. unfortunately, the measures implemented by some governments in the european union have proven to be ineffective, and that is why now, more than ever, we need a total mobilization to revitalize the european union's economy. in this respect, i believe that the european union must act as one entity, must acquire powers to coordinate fiscal policies at european union level and, where appropriate, implement a common economic governance, but with a well-funded budget. it must be able to respond promptly to needs at european level and must implement appropriate arrangements for crisis management as quickly as possible. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the union is, first and foremost, the 500 million european citizens united by a desire for peace and prosperity and by a belief in the european social model. today, in the union, 23 million european citizens are unemployed and 80 million european citizens are at risk of poverty. one in five young europeans is unemployed. european citizens fear for their future and that of their children. european families are facing rising prices, especially for energy, transport and food, and declining incomes, which are driving down living standards. due to the economic crisis, member state governments have cut budgets for education and health, thousands of schools and hospitals have been closed and specialist staff laid off. member states undergoing fiscal consolidation also have difficulties in securing co-financing for european projects, with a low absorption rate of european funds. this is the state of the union today. the union and the member states must invest as a priority in education and health, but must also ensure the development of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, and not least agriculture. only through bold programmes and policies can we create jobs and fulfil the aspirations of european citizens.
i voted in favour of the economic governance reform package because we are facing a difficult time and this set of measures is a very important step in the process of strengthening macroeconomic surveillance and financial discipline. to achieve future goals such as increasing competitiveness, promoting employment, strengthening financial stability or improving public finances, we need to make much more ambitious and concrete commitments. the experience gained in the first decade of the functioning of the economic and monetary union has highlighted the urgent need for improved economic governance, which implies both a real national ownership and a much stronger framework for the supervision of national economic policies at union level. by setting a set of minimum requirements for national staff, we will thus encourage both budgetary accountability and the effectiveness of the deficit procedure. last but not least, member states' budgetary planning must be based on realistic forecasts, while paying due attention to the sustainability of their social protection systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) submitted by germany for the automotive industry in the regions of arnsberg and dusseldorf. the request concerns 778 redundancies in 5 enterprises in the automotive industry in the regions of arnsberg and dusseldorf in germany between march and december 2010. the 778 redundancies will increase the unemployment rate in the arnsberg and dusseldorf regions, which are already severely affected by the nokia redundancies in bochum and the closure of general motors. the german authorities argue that these redundancies were caused by the sharp decline in demand for new cars in europe, with dramatic consequences for the german car industry. eu car production in the first three quarters of 2010 was 14% lower than in the same period of 2008, and in 2009 german car production decreased by 13,8% compared to 2008 and by 16,1% compared to 2007. i call on the commission and the member states to make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary mechanisms with a view to accelerating the mobilisation of the egf. i also ask the commission to collect and publish data on egf beneficiaries who have been reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. − the adoption of the six-pack of economic governance legislation will fill a legislative gap in the functioning of the european union. the current budget deficit crisis has shown that the union cannot function properly on the basis of trust alone, and solidarity without supervisory and control mechanisms can destroy the confidence of citizens in some member states in the european project. the balance found between the financial correction mechanisms and the social aspects should have led to a consensual vote by all the political groups, but this did not happen, with the socialists abstaining or voting against some of the articles - this after they tried to return the laws to the parliamentary special committee (econ). the compromise reached by the epp, alde and ecr, however, prevailed and allowed the package to be sent to and adopted by the plenary. i hope that this package and the mechanisms it contains will work so that no one can say in the future that they did not have the appropriate instruments to stop a member state going wrong. the legislative package of course addresses future challenges, with the eu still having to find or implement a solution to the current crisis.
in writing. − today, the european parliament held its final vote on the economic governance package, a package of six proposals concerning the coordination of economic policies within the european union. i have chosen to oppose most of these proposals, believing that the solution to the current economic crisis cannot be one of austerity alone. the european union needs fiscal adjustment measures, but these must be combined equally with elements to promote investment, job creation and growth. the austerity package voted on today in the european parliament could fuel economic stagnation and accentuate the precarious situation of many citizens of the european union. however, i welcome the announcement made today by mr barroso, and reinforced by mr olli rehn, european commissioner for economic affairs, on the proposals the european executive is preparing to introduce a financial transaction tax and issue common european bonds. the implementation of the second initiative would allow a reduction in member states' debts and increase liquidity in the european market, fostering the long-awaited prospect of economic recovery.
in writing. - i voted against most of the proposals in this report, which risked aggravating the difficult economic situation in the european union. i have chosen to oppose most of these proposals because i believe that the solution to the current economic crisis cannot be one of austerity alone. the european union needs fiscal adjustment measures, but these must be combined equally with elements to promote investment, job creation and growth.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i think it is against economic logic to call for such measures in a period of recession which will certainly further impede economic growth. furthermore, i consider that this report is clearly opposed to the europe 2020 strategy. there are alternatives and the social democratic group in the european parliament has proposed a much more coherent policy, with growth and job creation as its main objective.
in writing. − i voted against the report on strengthening the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies as the whole economic governance package only introduces austerity measures and does not give member states the opportunity to invest in measures for growth and job creation. as proposed by the commission, each member state shall present its national reform programme by 30 april each year. the council shall, on a recommendation from the commission, assess whether the planned policy measures and economic assumptions of the national reform programmes are realistic. for non-euro area member states, the commission and the council shall monitor the implementation of convergence programmes to identify significant differences between the budgetary position and the medium-term budgetary objective. in the event of a significant deviation from the adjustment path towards the medium-term objective, the commission shall address a warning to the member state concerned and the council shall, within one month, adopt a policy recommendation setting a deadline of five months for correcting the deviation. i consider that these austerity measures limit the flexibility of member states to define their own set of measures to ensure economic and social development and thus contribute to the achievement of the medium-term objective.
in writing. − budgetary surveillance allows member states to benefit from prompt coordination at eu level and enables enhanced surveillance and simultaneous evaluation of both budgetary measures and structural reforms promoting growth and employment. the budgetary surveillance framework should be accompanied, in particular in times of economic downturn, by effective efforts to stimulate sustainable growth, protect social cohesion and create jobs, while respecting the priorities and needs of each member state. i consider that additional incentives and penalties are necessary to make the application of budgetary supervision more effective. those penalties should enhance the credibility of the budgetary surveillance framework in the european union and the incentives should enhance compliance. this regulation establishes a system of incentives and penalties for better implementation of the preventive and corrective components of the stability and growth pact and for strengthening the coordination and surveillance of budgetary discipline in the euro area and for maintaining financial stability in the euro area. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the euro area is going through a period of deep crisis because of weaknesses in the foundations on which the euro area was built. the stability pact is a very useful instrument for budgetary discipline, but it has been applied incorrectly, allowing the current macroeconomic imbalances to emerge. to avoid such situations in the future, but also to regain the confidence of financial markets in the single currency, a series of structural reforms are needed to address weaknesses in the budgetary surveillance system in the euro area. i believe that the agreement reached brings such improvements. one of the most important developments is the use of reverse qualified majority voting when imposing sanctions for non-compliance with the stability pact. this will strengthen the position of the european commission, which is the independent body that should be responsible for the application of sanctions, as it is unlikely that member states will apply sanctions to each other by qualified majority, as has been seen from previous experiences. the reference to eurobonds is welcome, as they can be a solution to the sovereign debt crisis by facilitating financing on financial markets at lower interest rates. obviously, eurobonds should only cover part of the public debt and contain elements that discourage 'free-rider' behaviour.
in writing. - i voted against the economic package because it is aimed exclusively at a radicalisation of austerity measures, completely ignoring the social effects. without a stimulus to growth, to investment, the stalemate risks continuing. austerity is not a panacea, and the dramatic case of greece shows this. fiscal discipline must be matched by measures against economic stagnation. without boosting consumption, job creation and strong public investment we will not have economic recovery.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the following provisions of the document resulting from the negotiations: the fine (of 0.2% of gdp) in the event of fraudulent presentation of deficit and debt statistics; increased powers granted to the commission, which will be able to request more information than previously provided for and by setting up surveillance missions in the member states; the regular and thorough evaluation by the commission of the economic governance system, in particular the effectiveness and appropriateness of sanctions; the opportunity for the competent committee of the european parliament to invite the commission, the president of the council and, where appropriate, the president of the european council or the president of the eurogroup to discuss the decisions adopted. the opportunity for the competent committee of the european parliament to invite the member state concerned by the decisions in question to participate in an exchange of views is also welcome.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area as the whole economic governance package only introduces austerity measures and does not give member states the opportunity to invest in measures for growth and job creation. the commission should have a more important coordinating role in enhanced surveillance procedures, but i believe that we cannot stipulate in the text of a regulation that countries with a weaker economic or budgetary position pay a higher interest rate or have the right to borrow up to a lower proportion of gdp in euro-securities. i also believe that forcing a member state with an excessive deficit to make a non-interest bearing deposit of 0.2% of its gdp and imposing a fine of 0.2% of gdp on a member state with an excessive deficit where the council considers that it has not taken effective action in response to its recommendations within the time-limit are only very harsh austerity measures that will not foster economic development and job creation in that member state.
in writing. − the euro area needs the confidence of financial markets now more than ever, and to do this we need to adopt measures to oblige member states to respect their commitments under the stability pact. as previous experiences have shown, member states have failed to enforce budgetary discipline effectively, contributing to the public debt crisis that has seriously damaged the credibility of the single currency. reliable statistical information is needed for effective surveillance and timely detection of macroeconomic imbalances. the possibility of applying fines for the provision of false macroeconomic data, especially when the purpose is to conceal the exceeding of the targets set out in the stability pact, will discourage unfair practices. as with the other reports in the legislative package, the major qualitative contribution to the implementation of measures to correct excessive macroeconomic imbalances is the possibility of adopting sanctions by reverse qualified majority, as well as the publicity of the council's deliberations on sanctions. this will avoid the obscure agreements between member states which lead to sanctions relief and to crises like the one we are currently experiencing.
in writing. − this report puts into practice the measures to correct the macroeconomic imbalances identified by the mechanisms set out in the ferreira report, but i believe that an intermediate step was necessary by providing an interest-bearing guarantee before the 0.1% of gdp penalty was imposed. if these measures had been taken into account, the union would have had a number of more flexible measures at its disposal.
in writing. − the improved economic governance framework must be based on a european union strategy for growth and employment, an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive budgetary positions, a robust framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, and strengthened financial market regulation and supervision. coordination of the economic policies of the member states must take place in the context of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines and must involve respect for guiding principles such as price stability, the soundness and sustainability of public finances and monetary conditions. the objective of enhanced economic coordination must be to establish a stable economic and social union based on the principles of the community procedure. the internal market must contribute to the sustainable development of the union, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at achieving full employment and social cohesion, and ensuring a high level of environmental protection and improving the quality of the environment. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances because we need a strong instrument, such as the proposed regulation, to address the problem of the precarious balance, which is generated in particular by medium and long-term structural trends, by the increasingly pronounced discrepancies within the union (and in particular the euro area), and by the spill-over effects of individual member states' policies.
in writing. - of all the six-pack, mrs ferreira's report is the only one that takes account of social realities and sets out measures that will allow us in the future to detect any economic imbalances in the member states as soon as possible. if these measures had been in place, the problem of greece would have been noticed much earlier and we could have taken much easier measures to save the economy, both the greek and the european economy.
in writing. − in september 2010, the commission presented a legislative package aimed at strengthening economic governance in the eu and the euro area, calling for the development of a new structured procedure to prevent and correct adverse macroeconomic imbalances in all member states. in order to develop a coordinated strategy for employment, member states and the union should act in accordance with the guiding principles of promoting a skilled and trained workforce and labour markets responsive to economic change. the internal market should contribute to the sustainable development of the union, based on balanced economic growth and price stability, a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social cohesion, and a high level of environmental protection and improvement. measures proposed to a given member state to correct imbalances should take into account the objectives of a union strategy for growth and jobs and the need to use such a strategy as a tool for ensuring sustainable internal cohesion.
in writing. − i supported this report as it establishes a system for detecting and correcting macroeconomic imbalances, while, at the same time, protecting social rights and having a symmetrical approach in monitoring both surplus and deficit countries. furthermore, the regulation ensures the monitoring of a wide range of potential sources of imbalances, including the monitoring of social indicators such as unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances is a powerful tool to address the delicate balance problem, generated in particular by medium and long-term structural trends, by the increasing discrepancies within the union, and by the spill-over effects of the policies of individual member states. the current strengthening of economic governance must be accompanied by strengthening the democratic legitimacy of decisions taken, which requires the direct involvement of not only relevant stakeholders but also national parliaments and the european parliament throughout the process. the experience of economic and monetary union in its first decade of operation has shown the clear need for an improved economic governance framework, which should be based on a stronger national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and a more robust system of european oversight of national economic policies.
in writing. − this report is essentially a continuation and extension of the faulty logic of the wortmann-kool report on the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies. that is why i have voted against this report.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the application of the excessive deficit procedure as the economic governance package only introduces austerity measures and does not give member states the possibility to invest in measures for growth and job creation. the purpose of the excessive deficit procedure is to prevent excessive government deficits and to encourage their correction. compliance with budgetary discipline shall be examined on the basis of the government deficit criterion and the government debt criterion. the council shall decide within two months whether an excessive deficit exists and shall make recommendations to the member state concerned. the council recommendation sets a deadline of six months for the state concerned to take concrete action and a deadline for the correction of the excessive deficit, which must be achieved in the year following its establishment. the council invites the member state to achieve annual budgetary targets allowing the deficit to be reduced by at least 0,5% of gdp as a reference value, in order to ensure that the excessive deficit is corrected within the deadline set by the council. i consider that these austerity measures limit the flexibility of member states in defining their own set of measures to ensure economic and social development and thus contribute, in the medium and long term, to the reduction of the excessive deficit.
in writing. − in several countries, the apparently strong budgetary positions of the pre-crisis period masked a strong dependence on exceptional revenue to finance expenditure; the decline in this revenue contributed to the sharp increase in budget deficits. to address these shortcomings, budgetary policy coordination and surveillance aimed at strengthening the stability and growth pact by providing it with more effective enforcement tools and by supplementing the pact with provisions on national budgetary frameworks is needed. the budgetary framework is intended to ensure that member states apply prudent budgetary policies so that stricter forms of coordination are not necessary to avoid jeopardising the sustainability of public finances and potential negative consequences for the whole of economic and monetary union. member states are therefore invited to present stability and convergence programmes setting out their plans to achieve their medium-term budgetary objectives, which are defined as a percentage of gdp in structural terms.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the proposal for a directive on the requirements for member states' budgetary frameworks as the whole economic governance package only introduces austerity measures and does not give member states the opportunity to invest in measures for growth and job creation. the public availability of fiscal data, official macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts and the methodologies, assumptions and parameters on which those forecasts are based is important for the proper functioning of the union budgetary surveillance framework. it is also necessary to adopt international accounting standards for the public sector and the professional independence of national statistical authorities and national courts of auditors. it is important that the methodologies, assumptions and parameters underlying the commission's macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts are published and that the level of the debt and deficit of the member states, as well as their evolution, are published by eurostat at least on a quarterly basis. however, i believe that the role of the commission is to coordinate the macroeconomic and budgetary policies of the member states in order to comply with the stability and growth pact. the commission can, through the levers it has, impose improvements in the work of the national statistical authorities, but it does not have to replace them.
in writing. − the eu's primary tasks in terms of economic and monetary stability are to curb national waste and to protect economic growth against macroeconomic shocks. these are the questions addressed by the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1466/97 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies. the compromise reached between the eu institutions and the member states after long and difficult negotiations, as reflected in this report, is welcome for the following reasons: first, the emphasis is not only on controlling the government budget deficit but also on controlling the public debt, with a strictly substantial limit of 3% of gdp deficit and 60% of gdp public debt. secondly, the introduction of a six-monthly european economic policy coordination framework with individual medium-term budgetary objectives for the member states and stronger supervisory functions for the commission. the report also sets out the main objectives of the reforms and the new approaches to be taken by the commission in the field of statistics.
in writing. − today’s vote on the ‘six pack’ of legislative proposals on european economic governance was a source of enormous satisfaction and pride for me and, at the same time, a source of major disappointment. satisfaction, because the european parliament has delivered the right thing for the citizens of europe. pride, because the promoter of the economic governance package was once again the epp, the real driving force of europe. major disappointment, because the way majorities were built during the votes has shown that many in the ep still do not get it. many speak about the future of europe without really believing it has one. europe has a future. i deeply believe in it. but the future of the european union is not an intergovernmental future. it is a community-method-based future. the future union will not be a union of nation states, it will be a union of communities and of regions, or there will be no future at all for it. furthering the transfer of sovereignty in a real community spirit has to be conducted under the aegis of the european parliament, directly elected by the 500 million citizens of the united europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because respect for, and the promotion and guarantee of, the universality of human rights are an integral part of the acquis of the european union and one of the foundations of its unity and integrity. despite this, numerous human rights violations related to sexual orientation and gender identity occur on a daily basis, both in the eu and in third countries. i believe that the european union and its member states must guarantee respect for human rights in their policies and practices in order to continually strengthen their spirit of freedom and democracy. we need an open dialogue on human rights, sexual orientation and gender identity among all un member states in all regions to eliminate discrimination and promote tolerance and respect everywhere. last but not least, i support the call on the commission, mentioned in the motion for a resolution, to draw up a comprehensive roadmap against homophobia, transphobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity as soon as possible.
first of all, let me express my satisfaction, as have others in today's debate, that president barroso has found it appropriate to mention this important subject of food aid programmes in his state of the union address this morning. 18 million europeans are currently benefiting from this programme. this means that more than one in thirty europeans received food aid. the whole union is struggling with the consequences of the crisis, the risk of poverty has increased, the fight against social exclusion is one of the most important objectives of the european union's social policy, and food shortages are the most severe of all forms of exclusion. this morning, president barroso said here in parliament that the purpose of political institutions is to make possible what is necessary. i am therefore convinced that solutions can be found to overcome the current legal impasse. as for food aid expenditure, let us not forget that each european citizen produces 180 kilograms of food waste a year, the level of waste is staggering, half of the food produced each year in europe is thrown away and turned into waste. reducing this waste would allow us to provide the necessary food for all the poor in europe and beyond. ignoring them is ethically unacceptable. food aid programs that have worked well for a quarter of a century must continue.
the european programme for the disadvantaged has contributed to the achievement of social policy objectives, alongside its agricultural dimension. the programme has proved to be an important tool for certain categories of people affected by poverty, especially in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. i therefore believe that european support for the disadvantaged should be at a level comparable to that of this year, bearing in mind that the common agricultural policy has social components and that the needy must continue to be assisted. in accordance with the principle of european solidarity, the six member states must demonstrate their understanding of the situation of the poor and accept the continuation of the programme within the necessary parameters.
i join those who have condemned here the cynicism and selfishness of the governments of the six member states who have decided to oppose the european food aid programme. last year we marked the european year against poverty. unfortunately, it was a rather symbolic action, since when it comes to action there are governments that openly admit their lack of solidarity with the disadvantaged citizens of the european union. this programme is one of the very few instruments through which the european union can intervene directly in support of european citizens. when there are over 40 million people in need, i think it's immoral to both oppose this and to abandon the issue of funding the program in a bureaucratic and administrative hack. i therefore call on the commission to solve the problem of financing agriculture from the budget and to ensure that food aid for the poorest citizens of the union is continued at the same level as before.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to add a few clarifications to the remarks made by some of you, not to convince those who are already convinced of the need to continue this programme, but perhaps to convey certain messages to those who need to hear them. some say: "a social policy programme may be national". that this programme is a matter of social policy, why not? as i have said before, the commission has made its choice: for the period 2014-2020, it proposes to include the budget for this programme in the framework of cohesion and social inclusion policy. it is possible. does it have to be a national issue? i think it's a political decision to be made here, and i think the majority will decide for the period 2014-2020. at the moment, the question we are asking ourselves is about the years 2012 and 2013. for this period, parliament, like the council, agreed when the budget was adopted that this programme should be part of the common agricultural policy. it is true that things have changed, but i would like to confirm and reinforce, once again, the idea that the court of justice is not calling into question a regulation. the court of justice simply asks that a regulation in force be respected. the commission is now proposing to amend this regulation so that we can make progress. but it is not for the court of justice to make political decisions. i think there are bodies in europe to do that. the commission asks that the institutions which have to take the political decisions take them. the commission has done its work by making a legislative proposal which also takes account of the observations of the court of justice. but the court of justice does not restrict purchases in markets. it simply says that the current regulation does not allow it. let us therefore change the rules! a rule is made to be changed! (applause) i would like to thank the fact that we are integrating this programme into social policy from 2014 does not prevent us from taking the decision today - as i said - to have a common legal basis. we are maintaining the legal basis for agriculture, since we have stocks of over 100 million euros for 2012. this programme cannot therefore be covered by social policy alone for 2012, since we have stocks. the commission proposes to maintain the dual legal basis of the common agricultural policy and social policy. it will propose this at the social affairs council early next week. i hope that this social affairs council or the next agriculture council will reach a decision. comments were also made on cofinancing. some member states could not afford the co-financing that the commission proposes in the legislative proposal on the table. i've said it before, many times; the commission is prepared to reconsider this idea of co-financing if it is the commission which blocks the decision. i hope that we will be able to reach a decision, because i know that the polish presidency is as determined as the commission. as regards the effectiveness of these funds - mr nicholson raised this question - and the waste, we will be able to see how, from 2014 onwards, we can improve the functioning of this programme. as for its effectiveness, it is one of the programmes for which figures can be given: 440 million tonnes are distributed to 18 million beneficiaries. there are clearly beneficiaries behind the use of this money. this money, this 500 million euros a year, that we have used so far, is often used as levers for collecting products that are not wasted. often, as you know, large retailers also contribute, together with food banks, to supply the stocks for the poorest; this money is also used as leverage. overall, the programme is worth well over 500 million in the member states, but this money is being used as leverage. these are the few points i wanted to make, once again, with the hope - and i could almost say the conviction - that we will be able, together with the council, to find a majority to ensure the continuation of this programme. it's not too late yet, but in a few months, it might be. i hope that's not the case. (applause) i would like to thank
acting president of the council. - mr president, the house, the commissioner! thank you very much for this debate, because i believe it will help me to untie the gordian knot that i tied on november 28, 2008. that's when the blocking minority was born. i would remind you that since then we have had six presidencies and, starting with the french presidency, each one has passed this difficult problem on to the next presidency like a hot potato. i am very clear: the polish presidency does not want to share this subject with the next one. we'll do our best to resolve this issue as soon as possible. i also want to point out that as a politician i am a little ashamed that the blocking group is made up of countries which have previously made very generous use of the instruments of intervention in the market and, when those stocks were high, saw nothing wrong in passing them on to the poorest. today, with no emergency supplies, we're making it an artificial legal problem. the commissioner is very clear: this is not a legal problem, this is not a financial problem, this is a political decision. you're here today to accept a six-pack of bailouts for the big banks. aren't these six governments ashamed that they can't decide on the money for 18 million people? i'm glad that this debate here today is public. i did not bury my head in the sand last week when i raised the subject in a public debate in the council so that the european public could have a clear assessment of who and why. and now i believe, i believe, mr. president, that after this debate, the consciences of the blocking governments will be awakened again.
in writing. millions of citizens are affected by the difficult economic times and the rapid rise in food prices. there are more people than we realize for whom the lack of adequate food is a daily concern: 43 million europeans cannot afford to eat meat or fish once every two days. i think that's a figure that's attracting attention. the free food program is for people who are afraid to feed their children tomorrow, people who don't think about what they're going to eat for dinner, but whether they're going to have any food, people who only eat at the food banks. i agree that we need to do more to ensure the nutritional quality of the food we distribute. it's important that the food is of good quality, as fresh as possible. i think that the message that should be sent through today's debate should be very clear: do not forget those who are waiting in the poor's mess or waiting to receive the next food package. so we don't have to wait too long! we need to put this food aid program on a permanent basis for the future.
in writing. the food aid programme allocation in 2012 will be reduced to less than a quarter of this year's budget. there is a risk that the programme will be discontinued as of 2013 due to the opposition of six european union member states to the possibility of continuing to support the most disadvantaged citizens from the budget for the common agricultural policy as before. beyond the technical discussion on the transfer of food aid from the eu's agricultural budget to the social budgets of the member states, there is in fact a lack of political will on the part of the six central and western european governments to contribute to a programme of solidarity with the poorest of europeans, as their numbers are constantly increasing due to the economic crisis. i would like to express my appreciation for the willingness shown by commissioner dacian ciolos to identify a solution to the continuation of food aid, a system initiated as far back as 1987 by the then president of the european commission, jacques delors. i call on the six governments to show solidarity and wisdom in the present extremely difficult context. there is still time to realise that the eu is becoming a shaky construction because of national egos and the disappearance of the fundamental link solidarity.
in writing. in the european union, 79 million people live below the poverty line and last year 18 million citizens benefited from food provided under the 'food for the most deprived' programme. we are in a time of economic crisis, with poverty increasing dramatically, especially under the pressure of austerity measures by some governments, and more and more people are suffering from hunger. it seems to me unacceptable that at such a particularly difficult time we are discussing reducing the budget allocated to this programme or financing it from the budgets of the member states. such decisions would be irresponsible. i believe that this programme must remain one of our priorities as a european programme financed from the cap budget, even if the products distributed are taken from the market and not from intervention stocks. i want to ask the polish presidency to press for the maintenance of this mechanism guaranteeing access to food for the most deprived categories. the right to food is a fundamental right and we must do everything possible to ensure that our citizens have that right.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the commissioners and the minister speaking on behalf of the polish council for their contributions, and i would also like to thank mr leinen who is the author of this resolution. now i shall speak in my mother tongue, romanian. consider că rezoluţia este una care exprimă o poziţie puternică a parlamentului european şi ea trebuie să fie valorificată. sigur că suntem angajaţi cu toţii în dezvoltarea durabilă şi măsurile necesare pentru a asigura generaţiilor prezente, dar şi generaţiilor viitoare, un viitor sigur şi corect. şi cred că trebuie să punem accentul pe accesul corect şi echitabil la resursele naturale pentru că acesta este o condiţie esenţială pentru dezvoltarea durabilă, pentru eradicarea sărăciei dar şi a protecţiei mediului. conceptul de economie ecologică, aşa cum a spus şi domnul ministru krashevski, este un concept care trebuie luat în considerare la nivel mondial, iar uniunea europeană trebuie să-şi păstreze rolul de lider în asumarea şi respectarea angajamentelor la nivel internaţional, în special pe schimbările climatice, subliniind potenţialul de investiţii în noi tehnologii, în industrii nepoluante, în tehnologii curate ca şi motor de creştere economică durabilă, de creare de locuri de muncă şi de protejarea mediului. de asemenea, dialogul social este o condiţie esenţială pentru a asigura dezvoltarea durabilă.
the rio+20 conference provides an important opportunity to discuss global challenges such as resource efficiency, sustainability and food security. i want to highlight two important elements in the context of tomorrow's resolution. the first is about agriculture. in romania 30% of the population works in agriculture. for millions of people, farming is the only source of income and the only important support for their livelihood. most of them own small farms. the same is true in other member states as well as in other countries outside the european union. small farms that have a low environmental impact and provide food security for millions of people need to be supported and promoted. the second element i want to highlight is the marine environment. it is a resource that we exploit together and that is why it requires effective international management.
the issue of nuclear safety has returned to public debate following the fukushima disaster, an accident that has raised concerns in the european union states. it highlighted not only the risks of nuclear energy but also those of policy decisions in this area taken in an emotional context and under pressure from public opinion. i believe that policy decisions on the european energy mix must take account of the development of new low-carbon technologies in order to avoid the forced implementation of support schemes that can cause distortions in the energy market and increases in electricity prices. i also believe that the expectations of consumers who want safe, stable and affordable electricity must take priority.
the rio summit on sustainable development must provide solutions for the development of a resource-efficient global eco-economy that contributes to the achievement of the millennium development goals. what is needed is an organic agriculture that can feed everyone on the planet. in this context, i draw attention to the importance of universal access to drinking water, which is a scarce resource. we also need to encourage the use of all low-carbon and renewable energy sources, but especially energy efficiency measures in transport, agriculture, industry and housing. these measures will ensure affordable electricity prices, but also increase energy security. in order to achieve the objectives of providing affordable energy to consumers and to meet climate change targets, it is necessary to maintain all low-carbon energy sources. finally, the summit for development should ensure universal access to education and health services. this needs to be promoted.
in writing. the rio+20 summit in june 2012 is a unique opportunity for world leaders to set the agenda for sustainability over the next 10 years and to reaffirm the need for global solidarity. it would be an important signal if the participating states were represented at the level of head of state or government. the green economy and the private sector must not lead to populist and unsustainable economic decisions. sustainable development must become an eu-wide priority in all eu processes and policies if the eu is to demonstrate consistency both internally and internationally. the rio+20 summit is a very important opportunity to strengthen the partnership between the industrialised and developing countries. there is one thing i do not agree with, however, and that is the intention to ban nuclear energy. closing down nuclear power plants would cause a shutdown of the economy and social life, so i think the answer to such a challenge is to tighten security measures. i would therefore have liked the mandate given to the ec by the ep in the negotiations for the rio summit to be in the spirit of this idea.
in writing. i support the draft resolution on the un conference on sustainable development, but i would like to point out that the paragraph referring to the complete elimination of nuclear energy from the european energy mix is contrary to the interests of certain member states, romania being one of them. i believe that nuclear energy is essential, at least in the medium term, to ensure an affordable price of electricity for final consumers. it is also a low-carbon technology that can make a substantial contribution to achieving europe's climate change objectives. hastily made policy decisions on energy production, made under pressure from public opinion and in an emotionally inappropriate context, can have serious consequences. they can affect the security of energy supply, lead to higher fossil fuel prices and even threaten the eu's energy independence. the development of new energy technologies and the operation of the energy market must be for the benefit of consumers and not to their detriment. we need to ensure a stable flow of energy at an affordable price, and therefore these issues must be properly analysed before decisions are taken such as the role of nuclear energy in the european energy mix.
the eu's declared support for the arab spring has not materialized with regard to the relocation of refugees from the tunisian-libyan border. member states should make further efforts to ensure the readmission of such persons. i point out the crucial role played by the emergency transition center in timisoara. it provides temporary shelter for vulnerable refugees awaiting relocation. as the first european facility of its kind, the centre has so far hosted over 730 people. the first group of refugees from libya arrived here in april. originally from eritrea, they suffered ill-treatment before arriving at a tunisian camp. i support coordination between such centres in the member states as a first step towards developing a european relocation strategy.
lampedusa has recently been the scene of violence again due to the revolt caused by the conditions of detention and the slow transfer of refugees to other less populated centers. unfortunately, italy has failed to find a solution to the crisis caused by the almost fifty thousand illegal immigrants who arrived earlier this year, despite the promises made by prime minister berlusconi during his visit in march, and the european union has found no way to deal with the exodus caused by instability in tunisia and the war in libya. the repatriation agreement is not a viable solution, especially given the plight of thousands of refugees on the tunisian-libyan border. the european union has failed to meet its commitment to help refugees on tunisian soil and is unable to manage the crisis on its own soil. i condemn this lack of solidarity and involvement and call on the commission and the council to mobilise urgently to resolve the north african refugee crisis.
the need for food aid for refugees arriving in tunisia is acute and is compounded by the threat of food depletion faced by organisations involved in the distribution of aid. i believe that the union should assess the situation and the humanitarian aid that should be continued to the tunisian authorities in order to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe in the region. i also believe that europe, as a partner in the union for the mediterranean, must be more involved through its neighbourhood policy mechanisms, to avoid the possibility of food shortages being used as a weapon and to strengthen food security in the region.
if we ask the question 'is the european globalisation adjustment fund useful?', the only answer can be yes, but if we take the idea further, 'is it useful enough, is it used enough, is it adapted enough to the needs of today's economy?'... more than a third of the workers assisted in 2009-2010 were able to get a job, statistics show, and 40% of those laid off were assisted. this means that for every 100 workers laid off, four were able to find employment. which is not enough, especially considering that the current crisis is far from over. this is why the proposed measures are needed, the extension until the end of 2013 of the derogation allowing the use of the fund to support dismissed workers, the extension of the fund's activity beyond the current multiannual financial framework, but also the introduction of faster intervention procedures, the identification of the reasons why some member states have never used the fund (this is a matter of concern), and then the resolution of the problems identified. more efficiency, less red tape, easier access to information, exchange of good practice between member states, involving more people in the activities supported by the fund, these are the solutions we need.
i will support the commission's proposals both to extend the fund's applicability and to increase the level of co-financing. this fund is a concrete and effective response to the problems of labour mobility between and within industries, driven by globalisation, an economic trend that will remain with us. what i think is necessary, however, is to speed up the procedures for the release of funds to support labour problems in areas where they have been affected by the impact of globalisation, and the second proposal is that this fund should return to its original purpose, which is to support the removal of the impact of globalisation on the labour force.
in 2010, 12 member states accessed the european globalisation adjustment fund, but unfortunately my country was not among them. this is not the first time i've spoken on this subject. in the meantime, romania has also adopted a government decision to regulate its legal and institutional framework. the commission should, however, consider maintaining a significant co-financing rate, so that it can also be accessed by member states with budgetary austerity programmes, such as romania. with an unemployment rate of over 7% but below the eu average, romania needs to adopt an effective vocational retraining strategy. at the same time, the scope of the fund should be extended to other sectors, such as agriculture. the idea of combining this fund with structural funds, as proposed, is not welcome.
in the case of enterprises affected by the economic and financial crisis, they can use both the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund to support redundant workers. in the public sector, however, the union does not have sufficient instruments to support those made redundant by public institutions as a result of national budget cuts due to the economic and financial crisis. the international commitments undertaken by some member states with the international monetary fund or the european commission to overcome the economic crisis involve massive staff reductions in public institutions. these persons must be able to benefit from support from the european union under the same conditions as a private sector employee who is made redundant as a result of the economic crisis. commissioner, i am asking you whether the commission intends to adapt the european globalisation adjustment fund to also support employees made redundant in public institutions because of the way the economic and financial crisis is affecting national budgets.
on behalf of the alde group. we all recognise the need to set ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets to combat climate change, and we are proud that the european union is leading the world in this important fight. at the same time, i think we need to be pragmatic and carefully consider the impact of these measures. the end of the free allocation of allowances to electricity producers will of course have consequences for the price of energy, which will have repercussions on the competitiveness of energy-intensive industries, as well as the steel industry. it is clear that the member states and the industry are affected differently, depending on the mode of electricity production and the type of furnace, as mr pirillo has also mentioned, whether fuel-based or electric. in romania, my country, for example, half of the total amount of steel is produced in electric furnaces, and the impact will be far-reaching. i am sure that similar situations exist in other member states. i would like to stress that the steel market is a global market and that the emission reduction targets risk introducing distortions of competition between producers. in the absence of a global agreement on emission reduction targets, eu industry is under pressure that is not being experienced by companies in countries that have not set such ambitious targets, and the risk of relocation is therefore real and must be treated as such. in order to offset this risk, the commission should clearly state in the future state aid guidelines that all industries on the list adopted by the decision of 24 december 2009 are eligible for indirect emission cost compensation. it is also necessary that those compensations are proportionate to the level of indirect costs generated by the emissions trading system. without this principle, the problem is only partially solved, which will threaten the competitiveness of the industry and therefore of several thousand jobs in the european union and a failure to reduce carbon emissions globally.
the steel industry is the foundation on which the european union was built and one of its central economic pillars. without the steel industry, future growth and development cannot be sustained in a global market without common binding rules. the production of steel and aluminum requires large amounts of electricity. regardless of the improvements that will be made in the short and medium term to reduce carbon emissions from electricity generation, it is clear that the price of electricity will increase due to the additional costs of emission allowances. i believe that steel and aluminium production in electric furnaces should be included rapidly among the industrial sectors eligible for financial compensatory measures, in order to protect the industrial competitiveness of the european union. this can eliminate the competitive disadvantages faced by steel and aluminium producers in countries that provide subsidies or do not promote policies to reduce carbon emissions.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr pirillo, for this question. i would like to underline that the role of the eu etc is to induce a positive change in the energy-intensive and emission-intensive industries towards more efficient technology. the etc does not consider the competitiveness of the industries mentioned, which are caught in the middle between making investments to reduce emissions, thus internalising the debt service at their cost, and using market mechanisms to maintain existing technologies, i.e. internalising the cost of emissions certificates. it is important to note that the timeline for technological change in these industries is rather long, in contrast to market dynamics. the effects on the competitiveness of these sectors induce the risk of lost production cells and emissions reallocation, leading to job losses and to serious social effects. for example, romania is highly exposed to carbon leakage as it is located at eu borders. we call on the commission to take all the necessary measures.
i come from galatia, a city with both a steel industry and a shipbuilding industry. my county is very much dependent on the jobs these industries provide and, by implication, on the european framework that allows these industries to develop. the competitiveness of european industry and the preservation of jobs in the european union therefore depend on how we succeed in modernising the energy-intensive industries. i believe that in the debate we are having on the emission certificates for these industries, we should impose clear conditions so that we can oblige and at the same time support companies in these sectors to invest in less polluting and more resource-efficient technologies. i believe that the long-term preservation of jobs and production in these sectors within the european union depends on the measures we take now to modernise and make energy-intensive industries, including steel, more environmentally-efficient.
in its resolution adopted in july, parliament called for common minimum conditions without which body scanners cannot be included in the list of authorised methods of security screening at airports. i asked: 1. use of body scanners to use only schematic figures and not to make body images. 2. the data shall be used only for the period of the control. they should be destroyed immediately after the person has passed through security and cannot be stored. 3. for the protection of the health of passengers and security personnel, the use of x-ray based body scanners shall not be permitted. 4. strike a good balance between the benefits of using body scanners and the investment required to introduce them. not all these requests were met by the commission's proposal. i ask the commission to withdraw this proposal and to re-examine it through the prism of... (the president interrupts)
i believe that, at least at the present stage of technology, security scanners do not offer sufficient guarantees to be used in airports in the european union. besides the fact that some of these scans violate privacy by creating body images, they are also a real danger to human health. they talk about the fact that they produce an acceptable amount of harmful emissions. i want to point out that these tiny doses of radiation don't disappear from the human body, but they add up until they reach a threshold at which their effect is devastating. this is all the more dangerous for frequent airline passengers, who must endure hundreds of scanner exposures each year. therefore, until the available studies and technologies clearly prove... (the president interrupts)
i believe that the development of the european green economy is an alternative to the over-exploitation of fossil fuels. i voted against paragraph 46 of the resolution because its implementation could create social problems as a result of the increase in the price of electricity for final consumers. the intensification of human activities that impact the biosphere can upset the ecological balance. my country enjoys a unique biodiversity and has continuously participated in the development of international environmental policy. romania supports sustainable development and promotes green technologies, which is why i am not in favour of eliminating nuclear energy from the european energy mix. it has a high degree of efficiency while keeping production costs low. the construction of new nuclear power plants and the introduction of insufficiently tested technologies are damaging the environment by increasing carbon emissions.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to demonstrate eu solidarity with workers affected by the mass redundancies caused by globalisation, and since 2009 it has been extended through the recovery plan to cover redundancies caused by the economic and financial crisis. although the fund has been criticised for its slow response, it is clear that 10% of all workers made redundant in the eu in 2009 and 2010 were supported through it, and 40% of them successfully reintegrated despite the economic crisis. extending the life of the fund would only help, as the economic crisis is showing signs of recovery. however, the egf should shift its focus to effectively supporting the training and retraining of those affected by mass redundancies so that they can be reintegrated as quickly as possible. the main challenge, in the context of a very difficult economy, is to introduce intervention procedures to enable the rapid and efficient mobilisation of the egf. in these circumstances, the commission's objective to reduce the duration of the procedure for applying for and mobilising the egf to a maximum of 6 months between the submission of the application and the transfer of funds to the eu member concerned is a welcome one.
in writing. − globalisation and, more recently, the economic crisis have had an unprecedented impact on businesses of all sizes and, by implication, on their workers. adapting to change to keep pace with the european economy is the main challenge facing european businesses today. objectives such as job placement and training in skills and competences to support those made redundant as a result of business relocations or changes in the structure of the world economy should be a priority now and in the coming programming period. to keep pace with globalisation, businesses have had to settle in regions that are attractive for the labour market. the advantage to the regions concerned is however of limited duration. their development entails a decline in attractiveness and, by implication, future displacement. while there are currently regions that benefit from a high level of investor involvement, it is expected that, as basic infrastructure develops, they will continue their trend eastwards towards more attractive third countries. i support the extension of the european globalisation adjustment fund and the increase in the co-financing rate until 2013 and even in the next programming period. we need to support the implementation of structural reforms to increase employment potential and the egf must be a pivotal instrument in achieving the set objectives.
in writing. − the unilateral start of the process of recognising the state of palestine risks becoming a new source of conflict in the middle east. the international community is at a critical juncture, as a swing to one side or the other would create new tensions whose effect is difficult to predict. the european union has shown its openness to the palestinian authority by approving in parliament an agreement allowing agricultural and fishery products from the west bank and gaza strip to enter the european market duty-free and ensuring that european products enter the market in the territories under the palestinian authority. it is a certainty that the european union is the largest donor to the palestinian authority to serve the humanitarian cause of people facing serious problems. liberalising eu markets for palestinian products, which have so far been under the direct control of israeli customs authorities, will help the palestinian people develop their economy. the independence of a people begins with a prosperous economy, with better living conditions. the eu has always been open to and supportive of the palestinian cause. the question of recognizing a palestinian state is a negotiated one, because we cannot risk straining an already unstable area.
in writing. − in the decade since the last world summit on sustainable development, the international community has faced dramatic challenges - from food crises and oil price fluctuations to natural disasters and unprecedented economic crises. it's clear that the current consumption pattern can no longer continue. the meeting is therefore a necessary opportunity to identify innovative solutions to change the current development paradigm. we must find ways to provide a reasonable standard of living for a growing population, to halt the degradation of ecosystems, and to conserve the planet's resources. i consider that in this regard it is essential to strengthen the institutional framework for sustainable development, as set out in the un resolution of 24 december 2009. i hope that the european union will be able to be a mobilizing factor in achieving a global consensus on this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rio+20 resolution because it is necessary for the european union to formulate a unified position on sustainable development. i believe that sustainable development policies should not be limited to environmental issues. environmental, economic and social policies are interdependent. there are many challenges that we need to find answers to: global warming, food insecurity, the rising global unemployment rate, and the high levels of poverty. the responsibility is shared: industrialised and developing countries must commit to concrete targets at the united nations conference in june 2012. with the resolution adopted today, we are sending a strong signal: the european parliament wants the rio summit to be marked by global action for sustainable development, not by political declarations of intent.
in writing. − given that policy decisions on the european energy mix should take account of the development stage of new low-carbon technologies, i believe that the forced implementation of support schemes for immature technologies may cause distortions in the energy market and increases in electricity prices. it is essential that the development of new energy technologies and the operation of the energy market do not come at the expense of the expectations of consumers, who want secure, stable and affordable electricity. these aspects must be taken into account and properly analysed before any decision is taken on the role of nuclear energy in the european energy mix.
in writing. − sustainable development is and must remain a priority in all european union programmes and policies. the rio+20 summit should result in concrete measures and quantifiable targets, and ways of assessing them, necessary to establish synergy between the elements of sustainable development. this summit is a very important opportunity to strengthen political commitments on global sustainable development and to strengthen partnerships between industrialized and developing countries. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. − the three main objectives of the rio+20 summit will be to secure renewed political commitment to sustainable development, to assess the progress to date and the remaining gaps in the implementation of past commitments, and to address new and emerging challenges. the resolution stresses that, in order to enable the transition towards the green economy in the context of poverty eradication and to strengthen and improve the institutional framework for sustainable development, three interlinked policy dimensions need to be addressed while respecting human rights and ensuring environmental protection: investing in sustainable management of key resources and natural capital through r&d, establishing the right market and regulatory conditions abiding by the principle of equity, improving governance and involving civil society and the private sectors. fair and equitable access to natural resources for present and future generations is a crucial precondition for sustainable development and poverty eradication; these are the aspects i voted for.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the elaboration of a common eu position ahead of the un conference on sustainable development (rio+20). the rio+20 summit can strengthen political commitment to global sustainable development and partnerships between industrialized and developing countries. i voted in favour of paragraph 29 so that at the rio+20 summit commitments to promote the protection of water resources and the sustainable management of water as a public good are renewed. i voted for amendment no 24 because i believe that we need to encourage the use of all low-carbon energy sources, including nuclear energy. investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency measures are also becoming more important. paragraph 54 of the resolution calls for states to remove from national policies provisions that subsidize or mandate the production or consumption of biofuels, at least until the implementation of safeguards to eliminate competition with food production, biodiversity and climate protection. i voted for paragraph 71 because i believe that the revenues that can be generated by the introduction of a financial transaction tax at international level can be an important resource in supporting biodiversity and climate protection.
in writing. − the institutions concerned should make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. an important step in this direction is the improvement procedure implemented by the commission, at the request of the european parliament, to speed up the release of grants. i recall the importance of the institutions' commitment to ensuring a smooth and rapid decision-making procedure for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i also consider that measures financed by the egf should lead to long-term employment. however, assistance from the egf should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to show europe’s solidarity with workers concerned by mass redundancies resulting from globalisation. it was extended in 2009 in the framework of the recovery plan to cover dismissals caused by the financial and economic crisis. the best added value of a renewed fund would be effective support for training and retraining of workers with a view to reintegrating them into employment in difficult labour market situations caused by unforeseen events of restructuring of enterprises or sectors that entail or aggravate skills mismatches. this instrument would ensure, on the one hand, the eu’s solidarity with workers affected by negative effects of restructuring, and on the other hand, that all member states could benefit from its timely, targeted and tailored interventions in order to avoid long-term unemployment. the social partners, as well as local authorities, should be closely involved in the application procedure, and, above all, the design of the coordinated package of measures. the social partners should participate in the monitoring of the implementation and in the evaluation of the outcomes for workers.
in writing. − i have ruled against referral to the court of justice to verify the compatibility of the eu-morocco fisheries agreement with the treaties, because there is a risk of a freeze on fishing from february 2012 and because the arguments for referral are political and questionable. the western sahara issue must not have a negative impact on the ability of the european fleet, flying the flag of 10 member states, to have access to moroccan waters.
i thank those who have shown here that europe is in a very difficult moment. unfortunately, the postponement of the two summits by a week and yesterday's negative vote in the slovak parliament have once again betrayed the lack of consensus on how to overcome the impasse in which the european union finds itself. this lack of promptness and solidarity has a negative impact on trust, both at the level of citizens and at the level of the markets. i hope that this timeframe will help to finalise a coherent strategy, which takes into account the major risk of contagion due to the interdependencies in the european financial system. but above all, i hope that the consequences for the living standards of the citizens will be taken into account, because they are the raison d'être of public policies, and not necessarily the nervousness of the markets.
in writing. economic issues and the union's competitiveness are on the agenda of the october european council. as in 2008, the eu now intends to recapitalise european banks. the increased frequency of financial crises in recent years shows that we are trying, with outdated instruments, to address only the effects of economic and financial crises, and not their causes. it is time for a more profound change in the european financial system and, by implication, the development of new financial instruments is needed. in the absence of a significant and rapid process of financial sector restructuring, the eu may find itself in a position to recapitalise banks within a few years. the union must act swiftly to create growth and jobs. european citizens want peace and prosperity and are concerned today about their future and that of their children. they want decent jobs and decent living, so that everyone can be included in society and be useful to it. the union must therefore urgently invest in an ambitious, eco-efficient industrial policy that is able to create jobs in the eu. the eu also needs to invest in its transport, energy and communications infrastructure and information technology to increase its competitiveness.
the author. - these days, the qualifying matches for the european football championship are taking place, which makes us all good at football. and the situation of romania and bulgaria can be compared to a football match lost by the two countries not on the field, but at the green table. despite intensive training and playing very well technically, the two countries failed to qualify for the schengen league because some referees decided that the rules originally set and fair play didn't matter and created new rules right in the middle of the game, rules that no one knows about, but that have very serious consequences. personally, i thank the polish presidency for its continuing efforts to bring my country into the schengen area. but the fact that we are debating a resolution today on something that we already decided by vote four months ago shows how big a dead end the european union is now in. because it seems absurd to me to have two truths, one from the european parliament and the other from the council, about free movement within europe's borders. i am sure that the authorities and dignitaries in the netherlands and finland understand that european citizens have rights which cannot be interpreted and applied differently depending on their nationality or ethnicity of birth. and yet, they gave in to marginal but vocal internal pressures. if we are responsible, we must not allow a new split in europe, neither east-west nor north-south. the far right parties are waiting for this, for the deceived and confused people to refuse to be governed from brussels. that is why the double standard must disappear from the speeches and decisions of european political leaders. if this double standard had not existed, romania and bulgaria would already be in the schengen area, and this decision would have had positive effects for the european economy.
author. − romania signed the treaty of accession in 2005. at the same time, it has committed itself to comply with the obligations of the schengen agreement and to implement the provisions of the cooperation and verification mechanism on justice and the fight against corruption. the two commitments contain requirements and sanctions for non-compliance separately. the mechanism is in progress. the commission shall draw up annual progress reports and may impose the penalties provided for in the event of failure to comply with the steps provided for. the schengen roadmap has been fully respected in line with current community provisions, as certified by the jha council decision of june 2011. moreover, the june european council, including romania, proposed the revision of the schengen criteria, but made it clear in its conclusions that this proposal does not affect the accession process of romania and bulgaria. unfortunately, the jai council did not respect its own decision in june and in september it did not adopt any decision. we are in a completely uncertain situation, without any prospect, in which a member state is fulfilling its obligations but is blocked, we might even say sanctioned, by other member states, without any legally justified reason. moreover, under the treaty on european union, only the commission can propose sanctions against a member state. the european union is based, among other things, on trust, but also on mutual respect. in this situation, i think that the european council should intervene. i ask the european council to consider this matter and to take a correct decision, based on the merits of the two member states, for the benefit of all the member states and the european union.
for a long time, the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area has been beyond the debate about the two countries. in fact, it is now the embodiment of all the ills that the european union has been suffering from for some time: ignorance of european rules and treaties, populism, nationalism, the decline of solidarity and the denial of basic rights such as the right to free movement. i believe it is the duty of the european parliament to remind everyone of the values on which the european union is founded and to condemn the selfish and anti-european behaviour of some of the member states, caught in the trap of far-right populism. as commission president barroso recently said, the will of the vast majority and of the union should not be conditioned by the vote of a minority. we accept and respect the principle of the sovereignty of each member state, but we cannot agree that one or two states block the other's desire to move forward in the european project. the resolution we're voting on tomorrow isn't just about romania and bulgaria. we all know, even those who oppose schengen, that the two countries respect the highest standards of the schengen acquis. the resolution tomorrow will be, in effect, a condemnation of populism and nationalism and a call for respect for european rules and principles, which some of the member states have forgotten. the council has a duty to take account of the opinion of the european parliament and to act accordingly.
i would like to ask mr. van dalen why two states, romania and bulgaria, have to pay for what is happening in dexia bank? what does dexia have to do with the aspirations of the romanian and bulgarian peoples to join schengen? don't you think we've lived under communism long enough, thanks to the cowardice and populism of the european union? why should we have to pay for your mistakes again?
i would like to ask the distinguished unregistered mep, mr claeys, whether this apocalyptic picture of bulgaria and romania is the one he has presented with his fellow national, mr van dalen? did he talk, even by mistake, even in the corridor, with the representatives of many dutch companies in romania, with the dutch multinationals that do big successful business in romania and find out why they are tempted by romania and why the right-wing politicians in the netherlands are against romania and bulgaria?
i would like to ask the honourable member whether, as a member of parliament and as a creator of laws, truly european laws, it is normal that the first thing we do is to comply with them ourselves and thus present them to the citizens who elected us. secondly, i would like to ask you, since many distinguished colleagues have raised this issue here, how do they know exactly what is happening in romania and bulgaria in relation to corruption? is it written somewhere? do they have spies in romania?
today, the president of the commission and the presidency of the council of the eu spoke about regaining the trust of european citizens. seriousness and commitment help to regain that trust. romania and bulgaria have fulfilled their commitments to meet the criteria for accession to the schengen area. it is time for the other member states to honour their commitments and approve the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. romanians and bulgarians have been moving freely in the european union since 2002, so about five years before joining the european union. both parliament and the council confirmed in june that romania and bulgaria fulfilled the necessary criteria and are ready to join the schengen area. romania and bulgaria should be included in the schengen area strictly on the basis of the schengen acquis and procedures. no additional criteria may be imposed on member states already in the process of acceding to the schengen area. as regards corruption, a european framework will be developed, which will apply equally to all member states.
during 2011, romania and bulgaria demonstrated through the strategic measures and decisions taken that they have the logistical and human capacity to ensure a high level of security at the eastern border of the european union and that they have fulfilled all the accession criteria. it was a considerable financial effort, coupled with firm action on institutional and administrative reform. we are now in the strange situation that, although the technical conditions have been met, which are the only conditions for accession, integration is still postponed indefinitely. does the council consider it right to require these additional accession criteria to be applied to these countries at this time? rules are not meant to be broken or changed during play, nor can they be interpreted and used in a biased way. populist approaches are not good for europe, and such episodes can also serve as a dangerous precedent.
mr president, the schengen arrangement is the purest expression of a basic value shared by the eu, namely the free circulation of people within the union. the fact that romania and bulgaria are being prevented, exclusively on political grounds, and in defiance of the signed treaty, from having access to this space, is a sad reminder that what was integrated can equally be disintegrated. unfortunately thus, the old policies of beggar-thy-neighbour and of finger-pointing prevalent in europe in the 1930s are back in force, only this time not among individual states, but among members of the same organisation, the eu. although each country is free to pursue its national interest, let us not forget that there is no integration without a minimal solidarity and that the bad feelings accumulated today might burst out tomorrow when times are better, slowing down our further integration.
in writing. the resolution in question must be voted on as it was tabled and any amendment to the additional conditions required before romania and bulgaria's accession constitutes a change of the rules during the game. my country has invested enormously in aligning itself with border security standards, and now it is being blamed for the corruption problem, a problem that concerns romania in general. against this scourge, romania is fighting, perhaps more than other member states, other phenomena at least as dangerous as the budget deficit and sovereign debts, phenomena that threaten the very existence of the euro area and even the european union, and therefore, by implication, the schengen area. when romania's schengen assessment was done, the training and integrity of border police and customs officials in this area were also tested. i repeat, in this area, because i will never be able to say that there is no corruption at border crossings and customs. but in this area, the test has been passed, otherwise the conditions concerning data protection, the schengen information system, border control (land, sea and air), police cooperation and visa regimes could not have been met.
in writing. i would like to remind you that romania and bulgaria currently fulfil all the conditions laid down by the schengen acquis. this is attested not only by the conclusions of the schengen evaluation working party, but also by the firm position of the european parliament, expressed through the resolution adopted in june 2011. the indefinite postponement of romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area speaks of the lack of credibility of the european construction, in which the rules are made and unmade according to the interests of certain member states. in the union of 27 there are first-class and second-class countries, citizens with rights and citizens of inferior status, 'old' and 'new' states or states that joined too early. we talk easily about solidarity, but we also easily turn a blind eye when a member state is the victim of discrimination. we are promoting a desultory nationalism, without realising that every decision of this kind makes the european construction a form without a foundation.
in writing. romania and bulgaria have fulfilled the technical criteria of the schengen acquis, which should have translated into their accession to the area of free movement. this has not happened and now these two countries may be subject to additional criteria which have not been brought up in the case of accession of any other member state so far. the european parliament is in favour of a schengen area as it was conceived in 1995, without additional and arbitrary criteria, and today we reaffirm our support for this pillar of integration. but if compliance with the schengen acquis is no longer a strong enough argument to convince some member states, the suspension of european integration should be considered. in the period of deep crisis we are currently experiencing, the blocking of romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area is a negative and dangerous signal, which can open the way to the division of the union. i reaffirm my confidence in the political verticality of european leaders, who must take a correct position towards the two states, regardless of fears, prejudices and nationalist deviations.
in writing. to successfully complete the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union, they need to enjoy the same privileges as other member states, especially as regards the free movement of persons. the two states have gained this right by fulfilling all the requirements necessary for the implementation of the schengen acquis. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their support on this issue and i support the need to send a clear message from parliament to the european council. we want all member states to be treated equally and i regret that the current rules on access to the schengen area are not being respected by some for purely political reasons.
in writing. a leading european political leader whose good faith in bulgaria and romania's accession to schengen i do not doubt used a rather uninspired formula, stating that the two states have fulfilled all the conditions for accession, therefore they must be tolerated by europe. the word is the worst possible choice: romania and bulgaria have the right to join the schengen area and are not to be tolerated at all the fulfilment of the technical conditions is the only applicable criterion in this respect, and the fact that we have fulfilled these criteria has been found by european experts. any possible deviation from this principle only denotes the inclination of some political leaders towards cheap populism; they try to distract their own citizens affected by the global financial crisis from the real problems, to other problems, created and maintained artificially.
in writing. the countries of eastern europe were separated from those of the west by the iron curtain for several decades. today, two countries in the european union, the netherlands and finland, are again trying to isolate us from the rest of europe. it seems that in the case of romania and bulgaria, the rules have changed during the game, with the accession of these two states being postponed indefinitely, even though both countries have met all the required criteria. i think that romania and bulgaria should be admitted to schengen on the basis of the criteria originally set; at least that would be correct. finally, i would like to thank the polish presidency for all the support it has given to romania and bulgaria in this endeavour and i hope that the populist governments will not win the case.
in writing. the latest meeting of the council of ministers of the interior and justice postponed the vote on romania and bulgaria's accession to schengen again, as it does not appear to be supported by all member states. i would like to point out that while the european union is delaying the decision without any real explanation in accordance with european law and the mutual trust between the member states, romania is fully complying with the conditions for schengen accession as set out in the accession treaty. some believe that the unresolved problem of corruption in romania is the reason for the postponement of the accession decision. my fellow members of parliament! apart from the fact that the level of corruption in a member state has no legal link with schengen accession, do you think that the corruption problems of other member states should lead other member states to exclude these states from certain elements of european integration? i don't mean that. i do not want that to happen in romania and bulgaria.
in writing. – the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area should be just that: a process regulated by the norms previously agreed. both countries took this process in good faith and prepared according to the rules. but something changed. there is a pressure to change the rules of the game during the game. this is not only unfair towards two member states that were singled out. this is detrimental to the european solidarity principle. it happens at a most unfortunate time, when true european values are tested by radical agendas and political forces. the schengen debate was largely absorbed by this sort of politics. the resolution adopted today is a step in the right direction. the resolution proved that there is a consensus in the european parliament on the need to promote the interests of a coherent and united europe, especially in times of doubt and crisis. romania and bulgaria should not be treated differently. once they fulfil the original criteria they should be allowed to join the schengen area. the same rules should work from now on for future candidates. the european parliament always supported this approach. this is an excellent example of applied european politics.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members who have spoken. i think there is a very clear message coming out from this parliament tonight concerning the fundamental relationship between the countries in transition and their people and the need to protect human rights. in that context i am pleased to associate myself with all that has been said about the need to ensure that freedom of expression and freedom of religion and belief should be at the heart of the values held in each of the countries we have been discussing this evening – especially so in the light of the difficult situations and the violence we have seen in egypt. i also agree with what has been said about the need to continue our engagement with civil society in the four countries we have been discussing this evening. that is something that we put – and that i put – at the forefront of the work of our delegations and of my own work. it is an enormous pleasure to meet those brave people, many of them women, who have been at the forefront of change and who are seeking the kind of society and the kind of freedoms they see that we in the european union enjoy. we know that, if we can work collaboratively with them, we can help to engage in that process. i do believe, as i said earlier tonight, that there is a very special role for this house to play in that process, and i urge all the honourable members to take up that challenge too, and be willing to engage with civil society – engage with those looking for a new political process, engage with those who are looking for what i have described as ‘deep democracy’ – and offer them your support. i agree that, in our new strategy for our neighbourhood, the ideas of mutual accountability and ‘more for more’ are really significant. they enable us to support those moving forward on reform, those in civil society and those local organisations and ordinary people who are willing their leadership on to change, and also to support those who are privileged to serve in leadership positions who likewise choose to move forward with reform, to support the economy and the kind of democratic institutions and deep democracy that we wish to see, and to keep that idea of accountability in mind. we are responsible to the people for delivering what we say we will deliver; those in leadership are responsible for doing what they said they were going to do; and that mutual accountability should, i believe, govern the relationship we have with these countries across our neighbourhood into the future. i have put out 11 statements on bahrain, i have put out a number of statements on other countries, and i understand the frustration of feeling that sometimes we use words when we need to seek action. that is also why we need to keep working in the human rights council and in the security council, supporting our colleagues in civil society who are seeking change, and making not just statements but also contacts and links in order to say what we know to be true. in bahrain, that means saying that those who offer medical care should be treated as the heroes and heroines they are, and should not be treated badly by the regime. in syria, it means saying that those who are trying to come together to provide alternative leadership need to be supported in doing so. in yemen, it means saying that those who wish to see president saleh finally do what he said he would also need to be supported, not just with the humanitarian aid we have provided, but also with the full range of support which we can offer. i know that honourable members are concerned about the situation in this region and especially in egypt, a country that has all the potential to be a true and great democracy. it has the potential to throw off the shackles of the past 30 years and grow into the kind of country that the people who stood together day after day in tahrir square – people of all faiths, all beliefs and all views, men and women, young and old – have fought for. that is what we have to help the people of egypt actually to achieve.
in writing. i support this resolution and express my hope that the violent repression in bahrain, egypt and yemen will end. the moment a leader or a ruling class chooses violence to maintain power, the legitimacy of their decisions suffers greatly. when innocent women and children are among the victims, the situation must be condemned in unison by all who believe in the values of democracy, freedom of expression and the right of a citizen to challenge his own rulers.
in writing. the continuing violence in yemen, syria and bahrain is deeply worrying. the recent attacks on the christian community in egypt are of additional concern. they are a sign of the deep-seated disturbances that still exist in society. the use of violence is not the way to rebuild the state on democratic foundations. i consider the egyptian army's reaction to the peaceful protest of coptic christians to be a dangerous display of force. inter-religious tensions could destabilize egypt and the entire region. to avoid them, the egyptian authorities have a duty to shed light on these incidents. the role of national television, which has been deliberately misrepresenting the situation, must also be clarified. i ask the high representative to emphasise these issues in his dialogue with the egyptian authorities.
in writing. i express my appreciation for the nomination of yemeni women's rights and democracy activist tawakkul karman as one of the three winners of this year's nobel peace prize. the award of the prestigious prize to these women's rights activists is also a recognition and incentive for the active role they have taken, despite the risks, in promoting the idea of a peaceful and just society. sadly, on sunday, over 40 women were injured in yemen during a demonstration marking the awarding of the nobel prize to their compatriot. it is a primitive aggression, eloquent for the climate of violence and terror in which yemeni women live. i strongly condemn these kinds of attacks and call on the european union to be more drastic in defending human rights, including women's rights. such an act demonstrates that yemen is not just about the removal of president saleh from power. as the violence against christians in cairo and the sectarian purges in iraq show, the overthrow of dictators remains only a tenuous premise of democratization, which we owe much more support.
i'd like to start with an incident that happened yesterday. in the foreign affairs committee, there was just a discussion with the ukrainian minister, konstantin gryshchenko, who was trying to convince the members of the committee that the judiciary in ukraine is independent, and just then the news broke that the former prime minister, yulia tymoshenko, was sentenced to seven years in prison. it's a slightly surreal situation and it reminds us of the kind of judgment and accountability that existed under stalinism. moreover, there are many commentators who have described the trial of yulia tymoshenko as a stalinist trial. and then, if that's the case, i wonder why we have to keep doing what we've been doing for months. we said what we are saying today at the time of yulia tymoshenko's arrest. yanukovych was not at all sensitive to this speech, and then why raise the issue of continuing negotiations for an association agreement, when one of the partners is, in fact, a stalinist? in my opinion, the negotiation of the association agreement should be blocked. only such a clear political sign can make yanukovych understand our position. because otherwise, if we continue to make these speeches and say: "let's meet with yanukovych, let's explain to him again", i'm afraid he will fool us, as stalin fooled some of the westerners for many, many years.
i would also urge my colleagues to draw parallels between the ukrainian judiciary and the judiciary of the eu member states. just think, not only in hungary, but in france, the former head of state is on trial. but i could mention iceland or croatia. ukraine has repeatedly demonstrated in recent times that it has left something to be desired not only in the field of justice but also in the field of human rights, depriving minority individuals - who were not heads of state or prime ministers, but ordinary ukrainian citizens - of their rights to use their mother tongue in education and public administration. on the contrary, what i would suggest to my colleagues to draw parallels with is that the union can act effectively and credibly against ukraine only if the member states on its territory, the member states of the union, abolish the laws against minorities that punish collective rights. by abolishing the provisions that, in the form of language laws and other laws, other discriminatory laws, are hurting european union citizens.
in writing. today's debate on the arrest of former ukrainian prime minister yulia tymoshenko is timely in light of recent events in ukraine. the european union must send a strong and coordinated message to the ukrainian authorities to respect the separation of powers in the state. the current climate in kiev could have serious consequences for eu-ukraine relations in the run-up to an association agreement. it is important that the government in kiev engages in a process of transition to democracy and, by implication, to the european union. we must keep in mind that yulia tymoshenko's situation is not unique. the increasing number of investigations into prominent political leaders, members of the political opposition in ukraine, raises serious questions about the impartiality of these investigations. the examples from ukraine, a european state, come in a year, 2011, when the states of north africa are making important steps towards democracy. as the european guarantor of democratic principles and values, the eu cannot and must not stand by and watch politics get involved in the judiciary.
i chose to speak about yulia tymoshenko's case in the 'one-minute' procedure because so many colleagues asked to speak in the previous debate. the abusive sentence handed down yesterday against yulia tymoshenko is a confirmation that she has been brought to trial politically. it is becoming increasingly clear that the goal is to permanently remove the former prime minister from the political scene. the trial was lacking transparency and was not based on genuine evidence. european diplomats were barred from the courtroom. under these conditions, the power in kiev is no longer credible when it claims to be willing to cooperate with the eu. this will certainly have consequences for the conclusion of the eu-ukraine association agreement. good relations with the union do not mean just visa liberalisation or trade facilitation. first and foremost, it means respecting the principles of democracy and the rule of law on which the eastern partnership, of which ukraine is a member, is based.
the european commission's proposal for cohesion policy 2014-2020 mentions as a novelty the focus on vulnerable groups and the allocation of 20% of the european social fund allocations for social inclusion actions. social exclusion, unemployment and poverty are directly linked. however, we have seen that even in the centralisation of the targets set for each member state, as set by them in their national reform programmes in april 2011, it is stated that the results in terms of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty cannot be calculated at the level of the european union due to the differences in methodologies used in the member states. common guidelines, methodologies and tools are therefore needed to make social inclusion possible. the lack of such a system will lead to the avoidance of this issue, especially by the local and regional authorities, who are the first to manage these funds. i therefore ask the commission to draw up such instruments as soon as possible, in good time.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would also like to thank you all, on behalf of my political group, for your very good cooperation on this matter. the decision on the subscription by the european union of new shares in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development must be accompanied by clear signals from the european parliament to the other european institutions and to the member states concerning the bank's activities. that is why i believe that the first step is to make the european public investment banking system more efficient. duplication and overlap between the activities of the ebrd and the eib must be avoided and i would like to recall in this regard the european parliament's resolution of 25 march 2009 calling for a restructuring of the european public investment banking system, including an assessment of the option of dissolving the ebrd and integrating its relevant parts into the european investment bank. the bank's capital needs are assessed on the basis of the capital needs of the bank, which are defined in the bank's capital adequacy policy. i also believe that there is a need for stricter controls on the possible transit of ebrd financing through tax havens and on the use of the principle of banking secrecy for tax evasion. tax distortions and shortcomings are mechanisms that allow certain entities to fail to meet their responsibilities to society. in effect, they fuel financial instability by undermining existing regulations, promoting inequality and poverty, and constraining economic growth. a bank financed by the european union cannot afford to work with such institutions, and the european parliament is clearly in favour of transparency and demands the disclosure of the beneficiaries and evaluations of projects financed by the european bank for reconstruction and development.
the subscription of new shares in the ebrd capital is necessary for the eu to continue to promote european objectives in the field of external economic relations. it is also essential that the ebrd does not have unforeseen losses, as this would require payments from the eu budget. the institution's funding programmes should continue to give priority to the private sector. last year, 90% of ebrd investments in romania were directed to the private sector. in this context, i welcome the funding of energy efficiency projects. i believe that the sustainable energy financing facility will help romanian smes to improve their competitiveness. at the same time, supporting romania's strategy to increase the share of renewable energy will bring romania closer to european standards in this field.
the eu must provide consumer protection in the event of insolvent insurance companies failing to honour their contractual obligations. the lack of harmonisation in this area could distort cross-border competition and prevent uniform consumer protection. romania is among the 11 member states that currently have at least one general insurance scheme. this means that more than half of the entire eu insurance market is not effectively protected. i stress the need for a european legal framework that provides comprehensive and continuous protection for policyholders or, where appropriate, beneficiaries of insurance policies. it is also essential that the funding model for national insurance guarantee schemes comply with the principle of subsidiarity.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the honourable member for these questions because it gives me the opportunity to present the commission’s overall assessment of the implementation of protocol no 2 of the treaty of lisbon, also known as the subsidiarity control mechanism. the subsidiarity control mechanism is up and running, and its implementation has so far been very smooth, thanks not only to thorough preparation by both the commission and the national parliaments before the treaty entered into force, but also to the excellent cooperation and constructive contacts between the commission and the national parliaments. the experience gained so far has clearly shown that national parliaments are well prepared and ready to assume their new role and powers under the new treaty. by the end of september 2011, the commission had sent to national parliaments 139 draft legislative proposals falling within the scope of the subsidiarity control mechanism, and had received a total of 61 reasoned opinions stating that the respective legislative drafts did not observe the principle of subsidiarity. however, in no case have the thresholds provided for in protocol no 2, triggering the so-called yellow or orange cards, been reached. the commission is convinced that relations with national parliaments should not be confined merely to questions of subsidiarity, and it supports a deepening of the political dialogue with national parliaments, of which the subsidiarity control mechanism is only one aspect. in the context of the political dialogue, the commission currently receives and replies to more than 600 opinions per year from national parliaments, including their opinions on the content of commission proposals. one of the questions put to the commission was about how we are staffed. a unit in the secretariat-general is dedicated to relations with national parliaments and, in addition, every dg has designated coordinators for relations with national parliaments, who contribute to smooth implementation of the subsidiarity control mechanism and political dialogue, as do the offices of the relevant commissioners. turning to the overall assessment, the question of the subsidiarity control mechanism and political dialogue is an item regularly discussed at the cosac meetings, where the commission meets with members of the national parliaments who work in the european committees. i agree with the honourable member who pointed out that it is very important that national mps be more involved in discussions on european legislation. we can see that debate on these issues is much more frequent and more detailed, and that the quality of the opinions coming from the national parliaments is much higher. we are trying to take the same approach on the commission side because one of the matters raised at recent cosac meetings concerned comments from national parliaments suggesting that, on some issues, we should be more precise. the national parliaments would like to see more thorough explanation of the subsidiarity clauses in our legislative proposals, and therefore it is a mutual learning process. in the next phase we should ensure that sectoral proposals – for example, on the environment and transport – are discussed by the national parliaments not only in the european committees but in the relevant sectoral committees. i believe this would increase interest among national mps in european legislation, and they would also gain greater ownership and be much more careful when it comes to transposition, which, as we all know, depends heavily on national authorities. i think that the mechanism is working very well. the political dialogue is important because it gives us at the commission the chance to receive not only reasoned – i.e. negative – opinions, but also a great deal of encouragement and positive opinions from the national parliaments. i am sure that the dialogue will evolve and that the number and quality of both the national parliaments’ opinions and the commission responses will gradually improve in the coming months and years.
i welcome the re-examination of the application of this principle, particularly in the light of protocol 2 to the lisbon treaty. i welcome the development of a control mechanism for compliance with article 5 of the eu treaty. the delimitation of the allocation of competences at community and national level in the new text clarifies the functioning of the subsidiarity mechanism. in practice, its application must take account of the characteristics of each member state and its sub-units. i would point out the limited control exercised by the european court of justice on the application of this principle. the court may only annul an act which has been unlawfully adopted without verifying that subsidiarity has been observed. in this context, the exercise of control at legislative level is the way to complete the court's work.
the crisis has led many member states to increase vat rates, so that it has become an even more important revenue source for member states' budgets. every year, whenever i discuss with my students the information and actual circuits generated by the european vat regime, there is always a heated debate about the complexity, burden and evasion that this european vat regime favours. that is why i very much support the proposals in my colleague mr casa's report, which seek to reduce and eliminate, as far as possible by each member state, the vat exemptions, exemptions and reduced rates which only increase the complexity and administrative burden of this tax. i obviously support measures that reduce the bureaucratic red tape required to enforce this regime. i have serious reservations about proposals for a general exemption for the activities of non-governmental non-profit organisations, because in many cases, and i do not want to give examples now, these organisations are merely covering up tax evasion generated by some of their activities.
value added tax is an indispensable source of revenue for national budgets and in many member states is even the main source of revenue. while at the beginning of the economic crisis vat revenue represented around 8% of member states' gdp, its share has subsequently increased significantly due to the need for member states to increase the vat rate. given that the vat system represents around 60% of the administrative burden on businesses, i believe that simplifying and modernising the vat system is essential for the economy to function well, especially in times of crisis. i call for the issues of liability, deductibility and rates to be regulated as soon as possible, as these are the main concerns of economic operators. their complexity makes it difficult for economic agents to operate, increases costs and often reduces the attractiveness of european schemes for foreign investors, thus hampering regional development.
in the context of economic crisis and excessive government deficits, vat has proved to be an important source of revenue for national budgets. but raising it does not guarantee economic growth, especially when the consumption of staple foods is affected. in romania, vat on essential foodstuffs was maintained at 24%, which did not favour consumption but accentuated poverty. i therefore believe that alternative sources of income that are much more equitable must be found. on the other hand, it is not just consumers who have suffered from high vat, but also small and medium-sized enterprises, the economic engine of the european union. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal to consider the adoption at european level of a vat exemption threshold for smes, with the aim of facilitating their access to the internal market and reducing administrative costs and burdens.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr casa, on the excellent report he has produced. vat revenue is a major source of revenue for national budgets. in times of crisis, however, it is preferable to avoid raising vat and other taxes when there is an alternative. for example, in romania, the five-point increase in vat from 19% to 24% had a negative impact on the business environment, generating pressures. initially considered as a way of economic recovery, it delayed, according to the analyses, romania's exit from recession and would have been appropriate to operate in two stages. today, romania is one of the highest vat-paying member states and needs measures to stimulate investment and absorb european funds.
in writing. i join my colleagues in supporting the need to reform the vat system, which puts member states in a difficult situation as it is now regulated and defined. in my country, romania, the vat rate is among the highest in the union and no differentiation has yet been accepted for certain categories of goods or products. i therefore support the commission's request to submit to parliament and the council a mandatory list of goods and services which may be subject to a reduced rate or exemption under the vat directive. equally important, in my view, is the harmonisation of administrative practices and the reduction of red tape, i.e. the elimination of some of the annual returns, the reduction in the frequency of the periodic returns, the simplification of the evidence required for exemption from vat on exports and the future european standard invoice. i hope that we will consult seriously, in this whole process, with businesses and entrepreneurs and that we will get results. god help you!
financial investment to create new jobs plays a key role in economic recovery. the plan to boost the u.s. labor market, blocked yesterday by the u.s. senate, provides tax incentives for small businesses and employers. it offers a tax break for companies that hire new workers, while also lowering taxes on wages. at the same time, the american jobs act proposes an investment of over $100 billion in public works, using only materials made or available in the united states. the provisions in question could thus restrict european companies from participating in infrastructure projects in the usa. i should mention that, despite their commitment not to impose protectionist measures, the world's major economies continue to take measures to protect their own industries from international competition.
thank you to my colleagues adina valean, elisabeth jeggle, raül romeva and mr. wojciechowski for their joint effort and to all of you who signed for your support. with your help, the problem of stray dogs now has a chance to find a just solution.
i wanted to stress that i voted against the two amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy because it is unacceptable to change the rules in the middle of the game by promoting double standards with the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the debate yesterday once again confirmed that parliament remains committed to the great emblematic projects of european construction, such as the free movement of citizens and the schengen area, the euro area. i condemn the fact that political decisions in some member states give priority to populist approaches rather than to facts and realities. every country has the right to make its own decisions. but the european spirit demands that those countries which are currently opposed to romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area urgently identify a solution acceptable to us all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because insurance guarantee schemes are a valuable tool in reducing the risks faced by policyholders in the event of the failure of an insurance company. i believe that there should be a coherent and consistent cross-border framework at community level for the national insurance guarantee schemes in the member states, the role of which is to provide consumers with protection of last resort in the event that insurance companies are unable to meet their contractual obligations. the exposure of taxpayers to the failure of financial institutions should be kept to a minimum by effective and balanced supervision by national and european supervisory authorities.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes are a fundamental tool in reducing the risks of policyholders in the event of bankruptcy. they are important and we voted for the idea that all types of insurance products that european consumers buy are covered by the sga and that the sga will guarantee 100% reimbursement within a fixed period of time, valid throughout the eu.
in writing. − a directive on the harmonisation of conditions for the protection of insurance consumers is intended to protect all europeans in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurer from the complications that may arise, depending on the country of origin of the insurer, from fraud or mis-selling or from the failure of guarantee schemes. the scheme of supplementary and uniform protection for those who use the insurance instrument must be designed in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. insurance guarantee schemes are considered as a risk reduction tool for policyholders in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company. the european parliament has repeatedly demonstrated its support for a common approach at eu level. it is clear that the issue of gms is complex due to the wide variety of systems existing in eu member states as well as the interaction between gms and other issues currently under consideration at eu level, the most important of which is the imminent introduction of the solvency ii directive. this will radically change the european insurance industry. statistically, the risk-based economic requirements will reduce the risk of an insurer going bankrupt at a 200-year event.
in writing. − insurance guarantee schemes (igs) are a last resort for consumers in cases where insurance companies are unable to meet their contractual obligations. it is tragic that only 12 of the 30 eu-eea countries have at least one general insurance scheme. this means that in the event of the bankruptcy of an insurance company, one third of the entire insurance market in the eu-eea is not covered by any guarantee. given that it represents 26% of life insurance policies and 56% of general insurance policies, i believe that european citizens should benefit from igs to protect them against the risk of their claims not being honoured by insolvent insurance companies.
in writing. - i voted for the report on insurance guarantee schemes because european consumers need protection in the event of the bankruptcy of the insurer. in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the event of the insolvency of the insurer, it is necessary to establish a european framework allowing for a choice between financial compensation for the investment made in the insurance policy and the maintenance of insurance contracts by means of a portfolio transfer. i stress the importance of improving consumer knowledge and awareness of financial services and the risks associated with them. it is necessary to establish a mechanism for insurance policies that include clear warnings about the risks associated with them and the options available to consumers in such cases. we call on the commission to take action to establish a common, coherent and consistent insurance guarantee framework, which guarantees full and continuous protection of insurance policyholders throughout the eu. in the case of insurance, it is also necessary for the authorities responsible for consumer protection to give their opinion on the framework contracts offered by insurers so that consumers are protected and informed of their rights and obligations and can have bargaining power when taking out an insurance policy.
in writing. − value added tax is a main collection instrument, alongside tax, which has made a significant contribution to reducing budget deficits in the current crisis period. member states have had to raise vat ceilings, which has affected the business environment and slowed economic growth. the most vulnerable to the increase in the vat rate were certainly smes. the ec should therefore consider establishing a support mechanism for them, by reducing obligations and costs and by supporting access to the internal market. it is necessary that the future establishment of the vat regime takes account of the objectives of cohesion policy. i consider that the facilities for the payment of vat on non-repayable loans would be an important support for the beneficiaries and would, by implication, stimulate the absorption of european funds. member states should establish clear and simplified rules by consulting the beneficiaries of grants with a view to identifying measures to support them. i support this report in order to intensify cooperation between member states in the future, with a view to facilitating the exchange of information between tax authorities in the member states through online tax information and assistance portals.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the future of value added tax because the proposed measures contribute to making the internal market more efficient. the report calls on member states to coordinate and harmonise their administrative practices on vat and to implement measures to reduce the administrative burden of vat, to reduce the frequency of periodic vat returns, to simplify the evidence needed for export vat exemption. electronic invoicing facilitates the reduction of payment delays, reduces the risk of errors, fraud and administrative costs. directive 2010/45/eu on the common system of vat as regards rules on invoicing establishes new vat rules on electronic invoicing, ensuring equal treatment of paper invoices and electronic invoices. according to com ((2009) 15) on the reduction of administrative burdens, applying the same vat rules to both paper and electronic invoices will reduce the administrative burden on businesses by up to eur 18 million in the medium term. in the field of transport, harmonised rules or a reduced vat rate for crossborder transport within the eu have been called for, as has the accessibility of information on the different vat rates applicable in the passenger transport sector, in order to inform travellers of the exact cost of the crossborder journey.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary for the eu to adjust the ceilings to ensure the continuity of eib operations. it is also important to enhance the transparency of the operations of this institution. the eu guarantee for external operations of the european investment bank shall ensure that its financial soundness is not affected. the eib should step up its work, particularly in sectors that would foster the progress of developing countries, such as environmental infrastructure, sustainable transport, health and education support. i support the idea of extending the operations benefiting from the eu guarantee to cover all the regions covered by its external mandate. i believe that the link between the implementation of eib activities and the eu's regional priorities needs to be strengthened.
in writing. − as regards the subscription of new outstanding shares of the ebrd, in proportion to the current eu shareholding, i believe that the capital increase will strengthen the activities of the institution in the countries in which it operates and, in the context of the financial crisis, increase the bank's ability to provide the necessary assistance to the economies of these countries in a period of limited capital availability. i appreciate in this respect that the ebrd approved loans to romania of eur 799 million in 2009-2010. the european bank for reconstruction and development and the european investment bank are eu-funded banks, which implies the risk of overlapping activities. i believe that closer union control is needed in this respect, as well as for the verification of the course of loans granted and to combat tax evasion, in particular in view of the possible transit of ebrd financing through tax havens and the illegal use of bank secrecy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the subscription by the european union of new shares in the capital of the european bank for reconstruction and development, as it proposes to make the european public investment banking system more efficient and to tighten control of the projects financed. i believe that tax evasion is contributing to the current instability of the global financial system. a bank financed by the european union cannot therefore afford to cooperate with entities that evade their tax obligations.
in writing. − the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) needs to respond effectively to the crisis and reorient its strategy, given the particularly significant impact of the crisis on the area in which the bank operates. i consider the capital increase proposed by the ebrd to be absolutely necessary to mitigate the impact of the crisis. this will enable the ebrd to maintain a high level of activity and contribute, together with other european or national organisations and institutions, to the economic recovery in its area of operation. the estimates show that the capital increase will generate an annual ebrd business volume of around eur 9 billion in 2011 and 2012 and around eur 8,5 billion per year until 2015. i therefore believe that the eu's role in the governance of the ebrd requires it to underwrite new actions to achieve the community's objectives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it combats the illegal trafficking of firearms, encouraging and strengthening cooperation between states. i encourage member states to give the competent authorities appropriate powers and to lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of the regulation. the severity of the penalties should discourage anyone from engaging in such activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it brings about timely simplifications to licensing procedures for the export of firearms, while ensuring a high level of security, in accordance with the provisions of the un protocol in this field. over 700 000 people are victims of armed violence every year, two thirds of them outside a conflict situation. a very large proportion of the weapons used in these acts of violence are illegally acquired or transferred. in this context, a robust and effective firearms export control system, based on clear licensing procedures, is of paramount importance to prevent illicit transfers. romania is one of the countries that has ratified the un firearms protocol, further illustrating its strong commitment to international non-proliferation and control instruments. i appreciate that the ratification of this protocol by all member states is important to ensure a unified approach at european level in this important area. the adoption of measures for the application of article 10 is a first step in this direction.
in writing. − it is of the utmost importance that article 10 of the un firearms protocol (unfp) is implemented in all eu member states, with a view to harmonising procedures and finally creating a common system for regulating the trade in firearms. to date, the unfp has been ratified by 83 countries, 13 of which are eu member states. but we still have five member states of the union that have neither signed it nor ratified it. the proposal for a regulation introduces an 'export procedure' to be applied by member states for exports to third countries. the adoption of the regulation in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure would allow the application of article 10 of the unfccc in all member states, which would ultimately establish a uniform system of trade in firearms, parts, components and ammunition for firearms in the european union. in addition to the general objective of harmonising and simplifying the procedures followed, the regulation is also intended to combat illicit trafficking in firearms by fostering and strengthening cooperation between states, an objective which has become increasingly important since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing article 10 of the un firearms protocol and laying down measures concerning the authorisation of exports, imports and transit of firearms, their parts, components and ammunition. firstly, i support the proposal to create a common system for regulating the trade in firearms. so far, the un firearms protocol has been ratified by 83 countries, including only 13 eu member states, including romania. the main objective of the new instrument is to ensure that the union's arms control legislation is fully implemented. eu states have a duty to contribute effectively to the creation, at least at union level, of a uniform system for the trade in firearms and ammunition, which would contribute to a more effective fight against the illicit trafficking of arms.
in writing. − i support the amendment of certain elements of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 to allow for its extension until 31 december 2015 and to make the necessary amendments following the entry into force of the bilateral agreements with bosnia and herzegovina and serbia. privileged access to the eu market for almost all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process can make a decisive contribution to the relaunch of the economies of the balkans. the absence of this economic advantage in trade with the eu would undermine the economic recovery of the balkan countries, with negative repercussions on internal reforms and transition processes.
in writing. − the european union has granted exceptional unlimited duty-free access to the eu market for nearly all products originating in the countries and territories benefiting from the stabilisation and association process. the key element is to revitalise the western balkan economies through a privileged access to the eu market. economic development is to foster political stability in the entire region. this proposal amends certain elements of this regulation in order to permit extension of its validity and at the same time make some adjustments consequent to the entry into force of bilateral agreements with bosnia-herzegovina and serbia. the regulation has to be in full accordance with the treaty of lisbon. although it took a long time, we have to be aware that measures to revitalise trade are in the interest of the eu. this is why i endorsed this proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 introducing exceptional trade measures in favour of participating countries and territories linked to the eu's stabilisation and association process. these measures are primarily aimed at revitalizing the economies of the western balkans through privileged access to the eu market. given that the economic preferences established by this regulation are in support of the transition and reform process in this area and that regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 expired on 31 december 2010, i consider that, in this period of economic crisis, it is appropriate to extend its validity until 31 december 2015 in order to contribute to economic development and stability in the western balkans. products from albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro or serbia will thus continue to benefit from the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 in the cases expressly mentioned therein. in order to ensure that the union is able to meet its international obligations, the preferences included in this regulation should be conditional on the continuation or renewal of the existing derogation obtained by the union from its obligations under the world trade organisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to send a strong signal to european leaders. the eu is affected by the economic and financial crisis. but this must not turn into a crisis of european values and construction. i look to the european council to confirm the essential solidarity between member states in a common response to the economic challenges of the moment. at the same time, to commit decisively to the path out of the crisis, on the basis of the stability and growth roadmap presented by the commission. at the same time, i expect the european council to provide a clear solution and a concrete timetable for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area, not only because it is the right attitude towards these countries, which have fulfilled all the technical conditions, but also to strengthen the area without internal borders.
in writing. − the european council of 23 october is a decisive one for the future of european construction and we therefore trust in the european leaders' discernment to respond concretely and articulately to today's needs. i have called, as a member of the european parliament, for a community approach, rather than one centred on the capabilities of the member states, in solving the sovereign debt crisis. in this respect, in agreement with the european commission, we consider the recapitalisation of european banks and the communitarianisation of the financial stability facility to be essential, without which the euro area will collapse. the creation of eurobonds is also a condition without which the euro area will not be able to withstand pressures from within as well as from outside, from international markets. last but not least, it is important that parliament is involved in the decision-making process, because without democratic legitimacy, these measures will not be well received by european public opinion.
in writing. − the european council of 23 october 2011 will be dominated by economic issues, in particular those relating to measures to strengthen economic governance and fiscal discipline. special attention will also be paid to measures to stimulate economic growth. the future european council must adopt an approach that favours not only fiscal and budgetary consolidation but also economic growth. we must avoid that the measures to be taken to strengthen the governance of the euro area create a decoupling of the euro area from the rest of the member states. in the same context, i would like to recall the importance of applying the rules for joining the euro area in a non-discriminatory, transparent and identical way to all countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the preparation of the european council of 23 october 2011 to discuss issues of eu economic policy. the union now needs a meaningful european growth, investment and employment plan, including bonds to finance european projects. we draw the attention of the european council, the council of the european union and the commission to the fact that, in order for european citizens to benefit from better coordination of budgets and fiscal frameworks, the eu budget and the related multiannual financial framework must be subject to strict rules of transparency, accountability and responsibility. we also underline the importance of access to raw materials, in particular oil, gas and rare earths, for the whole of the european union industry. we call on the european council and the commission to engage actively, together with the eu's strategic trading partners, in all international fora, to conclude long-term bilateral trade agreements compatible with the world trade organisation, which guarantee the continued supply of these vital resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area and i congratulate the initiators. there are some things that are simple and clear and some questions that are still unanswered. from the first category: the two countries have successfully completed the schengen evaluation process. we, the parliament, and the council, said in june that the two countries were ready to join. in september, the last jai council postponed the decision indefinitely. the question, simplified to the max, is: why, until when, what do we do, is the correct procedure? i believe that we, the elected europeans, but also the citizens of bulgaria and romania, have the right to receive an answer.
in writing. − the adoption of the resolution on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area without the amendments proposed by political groups which express extremist views or should not express views at all, since most of their members are not residents of the schengen area and i do not think they ever will be, shows that the european parliament is a body untouched by the virus of far-right populism. i hope that this resolution will be a signal that the two member states, the netherlands and finland, will take seriously if they really believe in democracy and in respect for the rules they participated in when they were drawn up. it is a pity, however, that strong and traditional parties end up changing their public agenda, which is based on community rules and requirements, under the pressure of extremist parties, which end up governing against the backdrop of europe's slide towards isolationism and extremism, perhaps also due to an overly liberal policy on extra-community immigration. it is even more shameful when citizens of member states end up suffering the consequences of such actions, even though they have done everything they were asked to do to join the rest of the citizens in the sense of free movement at the borders.
in writing. - the project of european integration is blocked by the pitiful electoral realities for democracies that we consider advanced, those who have only just freed ourselves from two decades of communism. i do not hide the disappointment of my fellow romanians in the wave of denigrating lies that, from france to finland, are being sprayed on the most recent european citizens. it is sad that both the european construction and the european spirit have been wavering dangerously since the first serious attempt. it is gratifying that the european parliament remains a promoter of the european idea and stands in solidarity with the two member states in the face of the unjust harassment they are subjected to for blocking access to the schengen area. but i fear that we should not have any illusions in a europe caught between the national egoisms promoted by the populist right and the tendency to make official the franco-german directorate of the european union. we in the east have lived half a century under communism and thanks to the treachery and cowardice of the west. the lesson of humility that some of the old member states are teaching us reminds us of this and will probably cure us of the illusion of a return to a semblance of normalcy. so rest assured: as we survived the soviet union, we will survive in a european union that is increasingly far from the dream of its founders.
in writing. − accession to the schengen area is a right for romania and bulgaria, and an obligation for the other countries, deriving from their status as a member state of the european union. bulgaria and romania clearly fulfilled all the criteria for a country to join the schengen area, and parliament, by voting today, has shown that it is a defender of fairness, fair play, equality between member states and community law.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would like to make a few comments and reply to certain points. first of all, i would like to recall what i said in my introduction, namely that the european commission is preparing a european legislative act on accessibility, which will be preceded by an impact study on the degree of accessibility that currently exists in the european union, in the different member states, as well as an analysis of the costs and benefits of accessibility measures of an economic nature. i think that, in parallel with the legal measures, the legislative measures, we must also be able to stimulate industry, services and the production of goods that can appeal to this category of people, to ensure that accessibility does not exist only on paper but that it is also a reality in practice. i believe that this cost-benefit analysis will also enable us, including through european instruments, to identify and stimulate opportunities to make available to disabled people the different instruments they need. i would also like to point out that many powers and responsibilities in matters such as employment, education and social protection are the responsibility of the member states, but that does not mean that everything should be left to the member states and that we should do nothing at european level. on the one hand, the commission supports the member states in their approaches and in their national accountability by providing them with data, indicators on the situation of disabled people and by organising exchanges of good practice, and on the other hand, we have the europe 2020 strategy which, through various flagship initiatives, deals directly and indirectly with this issue. i would first mention the flagship initiative on innovation, which provides for the respect of accessibility standards in the context of public procurement provided for in the member states. secondly, i would mention inclusive growth, i.e. access to work for people with disabilities, through initiatives which must come from the member states and which are supported by specific programmes. finally, i would mention the flagship initiative on social innovation for vulnerable people, which is specifically devoted to this issue. i would also like to point out that the anti-discrimination directive, which has been on the council's table since 2008, is still under discussion within this institution. i can assure you that the commission is actively supporting the negotiations taking place in the council with a view to adopting this directive. i would like to conclude by recalling that the european commission considers that parliament's committee on petitions will always play an important role in keeping these issues in the public and political spotlight, rather than only occasionally being brought to mind, and also in keeping in touch with reality in the preparation of the various legislative proposals.
in writing. statistics show that one in six people in the european union has a disability; in total, some 80 million people are prevented from participating fully in social and economic life because of physical and behavioural barriers. the poverty level of people with disabilities is also about 70% above the average recorded, which partly leads to their limited access to employment. i believe that all member states must review and improve their social policies for disabled people so that their social and economic situation becomes normal. i believe that the european commission, in collaboration with the member states, must act and develop strategies to remove the obstacles and the various problems faced by men, women and children with disabilities and to ensure their effective participation in society on an equal basis of dignity.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs rühle and the members of the imco committee very sincerely for this report, which is indeed an important contribution. you said, "i hope we have leverage". i, for my part, - and i have been following your debates since i became commissioner - have found that parliament has a real lever in many areas and this report is certainly an essential element for us, for me, as i have been working in recent weeks to modernise european public procurement. what you write and say together will be extremely helpful. public procurement accounts for 17% of the european gdp. so we are talking about economies, we are talking about jobs and we are talking about growth. i am very pleased to see the convergence between the report you are about to vote on and the work i am currently conducting for the coming legislative procedures. the revision of the public procurement directives is part of an overall programme for the thorough modernization of public procurement throughout europe. this programme, on which i am working with my colleagues, includes, apart from the revision of the directives, a directive on concessions - which has specific features, as we know - which justifies a separate text, while ensuring that it is consistent with the overall reform. this package also includes an external aspect of our policy, for which i will propose, in agreement with my colleague, mr karel de gucht, an instrument to ensure reciprocity in access to public procurement worldwide. these three initiatives will together form the legislative package which i will be proposing to the college in december, that is to say in a few weeks' time. where are we and what do we want to do in the extension and in the very spirit of the light you give with this report? we're working on the options that i'll briefly describe to you: firstly, simplification of the procedures. that's the number one goal. to this end, we are working on the generalization of the negotiated procedure with prior publication. it is a good way for public authorities to buy goods and services that are really tailored to their specific needs. this procedure could be accompanied by the safeguards necessary to ensure compliance with the principles of non-discrimination and equal treatment. we are also considering a drastic reduction in documentation. i think it is quite frankly excessive and i had the opportunity in my previous life to launch many calls for tenders as chairman of a local authority in my country that companies have to provide, sometimes and we see this in practice very regularly more than twenty documents, from various authorities and often paid, for a single call for tenders. this discourages many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, from participating in tenders. that is why we could replace this documentation with solemn declarations by the contractors. only the successful tenderer would be required to provide certificates in due form. finally, we are working on strengthening and developing the digitalisation of public procurement. this is another essential vector of simplification. we could make the use of electronic means mandatory in some cases, so that electronic instead of paper is the standard or default method, such as email for personal written communications. all these measures will help to reduce the administrative burden for both contracting authorities and firms, and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. i come now to my second objective, which is also in line with your report, namely: how can we improve access to public procurement for small and mediumsized enterprises, which - i would remind you - make up 80 to 90% of the european economic fabric and which themselves have a very high potential for job creation, growth and innovation? to this end, we are in favour of a ban on disproportionate requirements on economic operators in terms of financial capacity. i therefore want to set a maximum level of turnover which may be required of a firm as proof of its ability to execute a contract. we are also considering a possible obligation to allocate, namely to divide public contracts into lots to facilitate access, through smaller lots, to small and mediumsized enterprises. ladies and gentlemen, after simplification, we will seek, in this package, to improve the current legal framework in order to facilitate the pursuit of societal objectives, which are also included in the europe 2020 strategy: the environment, social inclusion and innovation. we must of course be careful not to increase the administrative burden on contracting authorities. i have noted the strong opposition, particularly in the public consultation, to certain ideas, including the idea of imposing 'what to buy' obligations which could run counter to this simplification objective. in this package we are considering some concrete measures to facilitate the taking into account, through public procurement, of transversal objectives which correspond to the new requirements of our society. this is why we are working to strengthen life-cycle cost assessment, which encourages public authorities to assess the full life cycle of products in their purchases. we are considering clarifying the possibility for contracting authorities to take into account the production process. this should enable member states and contracting authorities to take account, in particular, of the working conditions of staff, compliance with the minimum wage, collective agreements and conventions of the international labour organisation. furthermore, with regard to innovation in particular - this is a subject on which chairman malcolm harbour regularly informs me and on which he is very vigilant, as are the other members of the committee - i would like to see more support for this objective of fostering innovation. we therefore envisage the introduction of a new partnership procedure specifically for the purchase of innovative products by contracting authorities. another aspect which is particularly close to my heart, as you know, is that of social services of general economic interest. in this area, i would like to see the rules further relaxed, giving member states even more freedom in the organisation of their tendering procedures for social services of general economic interest, naturally respecting the principles of transparency and non-discrimination. finally, we want to ensure that the contracting authorities can base their selection of services for the sgeis on quality criteria and take account of all the specific features of these services. finally, mrs rühle, ladies and gentlemen, we want to work with you to ensure better governance through the professionalisation of public procurement, in particular to ensure better integrity of procedures, better prevention of conflicts of interest and the introduction of better demand aggregation instruments for small contracting authorities. as we said in the single market act, the commission will - i can confirm this - adopt a legislative proposal on the reform of public procurement before the end of this year. it's going to be an ambitious proposal. i therefore thank you again for the quality and the precision of your report, which will help us not only to develop good cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council - i hope so - but also to produce good legislative proposals in the coming weeks.
rap the roi. - first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank mrs rühle for her work in preparing this report. public procurement plays a very important role in the context of cohesion policy and, in particular, in the implementation of projects financed by european funds. now more than ever, member states need to spend european money efficiently, and that is why clear provisions are needed to reform and simplify european public procurement procedures. the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of revising these rules is also essential, giving them greater autonomy in public procurement. the standardisation of procedures at the public procurement stage is also a measure that simplifies this process and is also a tool to combat corruption, one of the most common causes of irregularities in the implementation of european projects. last but not least, an important role in reforming this system lies with the european commission, which we ask to take the necessary measures both to simplify the procedural framework as a whole and to address the serious shortcomings related to non-compliance in public procurement.
in the context of budget cuts faced by member states, the eu needs a functioning and efficient public procurement market. european legislation should be simplified to allow purchasers to obtain the best results with the least investment of time and money. the streamlining of procedures will facilitate the participation of both smes and cross-border bidders. i would point out that only 1.6% of public contracts are awarded to operators from other member states. in romania, both public procurement legislation and legislation specific to smes provide for a number of facilities for their participation. i would remind you of the need to introduce the electronic auction system. for example, smes benefit from a 50% discount for participation and performance guarantees.
member of the commission. - madam president, i thank each of you for your attention and interest in this important debate. i spoke earlier of 17% of european gdp, but to be precise, mr tarabella or mr staes, unfortunately, in view of the crisis and the economic slowdown, this percentage has gone from 17% to 19% at the moment we are talking. this is therefore only to justify or underline the importance of public procurement and the good use we must make of it together, in the light of your report and the texts i am preparing on the economy, growth and competitiveness. i would like to emphasize the issue which remains for me the number one priority: simplification in the reform we are preparing. it must be useful both for contracting authorities and, of course, for companies, especially, as mr schwab or mr manders and others before them have pointed out, for small and mediumsized enterprises for which the current complexity, the cost of simply participating in a call for tenders, is insurmountable. i was told the other day that for some tenders the cost of administrative obligations represented almost 30% of the contract value. in these circumstances, it is unthinkable: 30% of the amount of the tender, of the turnover that a small company hopes to obtain! this is why, mr engel, so many companies give up and why there are so few transnational markets or communication between companies. it's already complicated in his own country, but it's even more complicated in the neighboring country. so first priority is simplification for smes and, to do this, measures which i will briefly recall: the generalization of the negotiated procedure, a drastic reduction in the required documentation and then, as mr correia de campos or mr kožušník have just said, the strengthening of electronic public procurement. at this point i would like to say to mrs tzavela, who was referring to the particular case of greece and perhaps other countries in difficulty, that we have put in place a procedure to simplify public procurement procedures exceptionally at the time of the financial crisis. your committees know that. as far as greece is concerned, we have a task force, mrs tzavela, which is at work. in fact, there are highly competent officials from my own directorate-general on this task force, including the former director-general, mr holmquist. we will make sure that we facilitate the resumption of growth and work, the successful completion of the 150 projects which are still pending, but please do so with legal certainty and without procedures and appeals which block everything. i'm paying attention to that question. on the topics of innovation, social policy, the environment, which many of you have mentioned - mrs girling, mrs westlund, mrs gebhardt - you ask me what more the union can do. i think there are already many possibilities - and it was chairman malcolm harbour who said this - under the current guidelines. the first priority is to use these guidelines properly. that is what i am trying to do, and that is what we are doing. several of you have spoken about innovation, president harbour of course, but also mrs ford. the european union strategy, called 'an innovation union', has defined a new approach. we want to boost research and innovation performance by accelerating the market introduction of innovative ideas and discoveries. the initiatives concerned are there to maintain competitiveness in the promotion of innovative procurement and, for example, the commitment for all member states and regions of the union to allocate a total budget of more than eur 10 billion to pre-market procurement and public procurement of innovative procurement. that is what my colleague, mrs geoghegan-quinn, has proposed. my colleague, mr tajani, has also involved the enterprise directorate in the lead market initiative, which helps contracting authorities to set up cooperation networks to share experience, acquire and jointly finance innovative solutions by sharing risks. we are setting up pilot projects with a recent call for innovative projects and a budget of €15 million. finally, my colleague, mrs neelie kroes, has set up assistance for contracting authorities in implementing the pre-marketing methodology. as part of the reform of public procurement which we are preparing, we will propose a new procedure, the so-called partnership for the purchase of innovative products. these are concrete legislative measures to promote crossborder joint purchasing and better legal protection for innovative solutions in the context of the competitive dialogue. all this will complement what i have just mentioned. as regards the sustainable dimension of the social and environmental aspects which many of you have mentioned, the consideration of the production process, as we envisage it, will be able to intervene not only in the technical specifications but also in the award criteria. mrs berès mentioned the bonus malus, i could simply refer to the award of additional points to tenderers who meet the conditions in question, whether in social terms - the working conditions of the staff, respect for the minimum wage, or as i said, collective agreements or the conventions of the international labour organisation - or environmental considerations, for example the use of green energy sources. there is another concern which i personally have and which i know many of you share, and that is the question of cooperation between public authorities. i know that at present, contracting authorities who wish to cooperate with each other often have difficulty distinguishing between situations in which the european directives on public procurement apply and those in which they do not. that is why, at the beginning of october, i published with my services a guide to clarify and clarify the framework currently applicable in this area. this document is intended for all those involved in public procurement: it consolidates the court's case-law by simplifying it for everyone to understand. i would like to go further and have even more legal certainty in this area. for this reason, i would like to include rules on public-public cooperation in the context of the reform we are preparing. many of you have raised the issue of legal certainty, including mrs gáll-pelcz earlier. i will of course take into account the concerns expressed by many of you about transparency and the issue of subcontracting. there is another aspect i want to mention: the proper application of the rules. in certain exceptional circumstances, they also need to be simplified. we shall do this in two ways: firstly, by the role of centres of excellence in the service of buyers, and secondly, by involving the member states in the better application of these rules, including, as mrs sartori said, the social aspects. on the second part of the legislative package, i have of course heard mr engel's warning that he will look into the proposal we are going to make on concessions. this is a subject which mrs thun und hohenstein has also raised. i have no ideology on this issue. i simply observe that, thirty years after the creation of the internal market, there are still no basic rules on service concessions. we shall therefore make proposals, i hope as intelligent as possible, without wanting to hinder, disrupt or weaken the small concessions which are of interest to many local authorities. i think that in the interests of transparency, legal certainty and good governance, we need a minimum framework for the regulation of service concessions. is this a matter of forcing outsourcing of public service missions? i think that the criticism i sometimes hear is not fair. in the light of european union law, public authorities are free to choose between carrying out public-interest tasks entrusted to them using their own resources or using external entities to carry them out. if a public authority decides to use an external entity, private capital, in the name of what should we oppose this, if it takes place in regular conditions of transparency? the internal market in concessions must guarantee citizens the benefit of services, in particular services of general interest, at the best value for money, and businesses, in particular small businesses, access to markets in other member states. finally, several of you - mr arif, mrs vergnaud - have mentioned the reform of public procurement in its external dimension. with my colleague, mr de gucht, we will propose to provide the union with a simple and clear instrument which gives legal certainty to our buyers and businesses, both european and foreign, by reflecting our international commitments in our european law. at the same time, we will make sure that offers from countries with which we do not have an agreement - china or india, for example - are treated in the same way. forgive me for the slightly telegraphic answers. this report - i would like to say this to mrs rühle - is extremely important and useful. i shall use it, and perhaps we shall have further discussions on this or that point. in any case, it is timely, because in the next few weeks i will be proposing to the college of the european commission to adopt proposals to modernise our public procurement legislation in three areas: renewal of public procurement and simplification, concessions under the conditions i have mentioned, and external dimensions. i thank you again, mrs rühle, and all your colleagues, for doing this extremely useful work for us.
in writing. the main purpose of public procurement must remain the procurement of goods, works and services by public authorities, which is adapted to the needs of citizens and which ensures the efficient use of public funds. we need simplified procedures, flexibility and better information. we need legal certainty and less bureaucracy. a properly functioning public procurement market is a key factor for growth and a cornerstone of the single market. in addition, it is essential for stimulating competition and innovation and for addressing rapidly social and environmental challenges arising from public policies, as well as the issue of quality of work, including adequate remuneration, equality, cohesion and social inclusion. i believe that european public procurement rules should make a significant contribution to increasing transparency and guaranteeing equal treatment, to combating corruption and to professionalising public procurement procedures. it is also important that public procurement legislation returns to its essence, namely the guarantee of transparency, non-discrimination and competition.
in writing. the revision of the public procurement directive is one of the most important projects commissioner barnier has launched and will have a major impact on the whole economy and not just on contracting authorities. smes are the engine of economic growth in the eu and therefore their growth must be supported including through public procurement. in its current form, the procedures are far too complex to allow smes to participate in tenders. that is why i support the division into lots, so that the procedures are more accessible to smes. at the same time, i believe that the rules should provide flexibility for public authorities. using price as the sole criterion has in many cases led to suboptimal results. it seems to me more reasonable to take the whole life cycle of the product into account when estimating the cost, and where appropriate, the environmental impact. i believe that, as long as the link between the subject of the contract and the criteria imposed is maintained, public procurement can be used in a pragmatic way to achieve synergies with other european policies and to achieve other objectives, such as those relating to the environment or the encouragement of innovation.
in writing. public procurement in the european union is a strategic segment of the single market and at the same time a key element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. local and regional authorities are among the most important purchasers in europe and therefore play a key role in the application of the rules for the award of public contracts. i believe that these authorities should be given more attention and included in the process of reviewing eu public procurement rules, which should give them more autonomy. increased attention should also be paid to smes, as they are the backbone of the eu economy with huge potential for job creation, growth and innovation. a balance must also be struck between the desire to simplify procedures and the need to ensure fair competition in public procurement and to achieve optimal results. i believe that improving and simplifying procedures will contribute to faster allocation of funds, higher absorption rates, increased efficiency in the use of funds and reduced errors.
the economic and financial crisis has severely affected the activity of european smes, while discouraging the development of innovative enterprises. in romania, 55% of smes recorded lower financial results in 2010 compared to 2009, and the overall economic situation was perceived as unfavourable for business by 70% of smes. given the importance of the work carried out by smes in supporting the european economy and employment, and given that 67% of jobs in the european union are created by smes, we need to ensure that their development is encouraged, that access to finance is facilitated and that their work in the single market is not constrained by one-off bureaucratic measures. i believe that we have invested too much in saving the european banking system when productive and sustainable jobs are generated by small and medium-sized economic actors.
as the main source of job creation, smes are directly involved in the economic recovery and development of the european union. adopted in june 2008, the small business act aims to improve entrepreneurship in independent companies to strengthen competitiveness. i support the development of education in this field by applying the best practices in europe. in my country, the start program aims to develop the entrepreneurial skills of young people. the eu needs to encourage smes by facilitating access to finance, and i welcome the provision of european advertising funds. the new government programmes to stimulate the activity of romanian smes have created or saved over 300 thousand jobs. at the same time, romania is among the member states that have adopted measures to facilitate sme financing through public support for guarantee schemes.
as the adoption of the small business act in 2008 has been beneficial for the entrepreneurial environment in europe, making the process of setting up a company easier and simpler, but also cheaper, i want to bring european private companies, so-called spes, into the discussion at this point on the agenda. we all know that in practice, the seps would mean that smes could carry out a professional activity wherever they were in the european union, as well as in their own country. if they opt for the spe, entrepreneurs will save time and money on legal, management and administrative assistance. i believe that at this moment, in order to ensure the development of such companies with european support, governments must agree on a new legislative act allowing small businesses to register as european private companies. this possibility, together with the adoption of the european purchase agreement, would, i believe, represent a real leap for smes in the european union.
in writing. one third of smes in romania achieved lower results in 2010 than in the previous year, and two thirds of romanian smes consider the overall economic situation to be hostile. one of the main causes of the decline in this sector is the decline in domestic demand, against the background of the reduction in population consumption. the romanian government's austerity policy is equivalent to turning off the engine of a car on a hill to save gas. but we risk the brakes turning out to be faulty and catastrophe closer than the fanatics of excessive taxation and inhumane cuts in the population's sources of income can comprehend. inflation, government bill delays and high cost of credit are some of the other obstacles to sme development. this is the reality in many eu countries, despite the fact that smes have been placed at the heart of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs since 2005. in this context, a joint programme to stimulate entrepreneurship is needed, as the private initiative can be a lifeline for investors who have gone bankrupt and for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis.
europe is home to 25% of the world's forests. europe is home to primary forests, natural treasures of unprecedented diversity that must be protected. unfortunately, many of europe's forests are suffering from excessive deforestation. in romania, in retezat national park, one of the last intact forests on the planet, massive deforestation has been carried out, with the approval of the authorities, right within the protected perimeter. in effect, deforestation is causing forest fragmentation, soil degradation, and the extinction of plant and animal species. the european union unfortunately has a lax system of monitoring its forests, which lacks mandatory, regular and comprehensive assessments of afforestation, deforestation and reforestation. this is why we need to improve and i also believe that we need to improve the protection and management of forest land in the european union in order to be able to leave these riches to future generations.
we all know that the structural funds are the main point in the european strategy to improve economic growth through investment in infrastructure and jobs, and in the absence of viable projects there is a risk that some funds will return to the union budget. in the case of romania, the low absorption rate is determined not only by the capacity of the public administration to develop eligible projects, but also by the limited co-financing of projects through the state budget, with priority given to the representatives of power. the difference between the european funds romania has access to and the amounts romania has absorbed is very large, which is why i believe that an alarm signal should be raised about serious abuses by the government in bucharest against local elected opposition, while their projects are blocked and do not receive the necessary co-financing.
this year, for the first time in 20 years, there was a month, april, when fewer than 14,000 babies were born in romania. the crisis is discouraging many europeans from starting a family. but in romania the main cause is different: in april it was 9 months since the government's anti-family and anti-natal measures came into force. all forms of family and child support have been either eliminated or drastically reduced in exchange for tiny budget cuts. there are no kindergartens, there are not enough kindergartens, mothers who want to go back to work have no help with childcare. moreover, over a thousand schools have been closed in the past two years, and over 15,000 teachers have lost their jobs. access to education for children in disadvantaged areas is becoming increasingly difficult, and dropout rates are skyrocketing. i call on the european authorities to take immediate action.
i have just returned from tunisia, where i was involved, along with other colleagues, in the observation of the elections in that country as part of a mission led by our colleague mr michael gahler. as you have probably heard, there was a very good turnout, impeccable organization, and i would like to emphasize, first of all, the model value of the tunisian elections. on a regional scale, tunisia is a reference - it was here that the arab spring began, and the reference that the elections represent will, i am convinced, also become a model. the ballots have spoken, it remains for the parties to build a government, and, on the other hand, obviously, for the constituent assembly to produce a text that supports the rule of law. it's not gonna be easy, the way things are going. the european union must, however, support a democratic tunisia.
i want to draw attention to the discretionary, clientelist and undemocratic style of government of the right wing still in power in romania. one of the most recent and most eloquent measures in this regard is the obviously arbitrary channelling of public money to the mayorships run by representatives of the ruling party. as a result of the allocation of funds to debtor municipalities, more than half of the money went to the elected members of the liberal democratic party and i think it is our duty to bring to the attention of these cases that reflect an increasingly hostile and unfair atmosphere, in which representatives of the opposition are also harassed, media boycotted and blackmailed. i would like to appeal to the european institutions to react to these lapses which threaten the fairness of the pre-electoral process and next year's elections in romania. i thank mr preda for bringing the tunisian elections to our attention; i believe that in the european union we must first of all say what we think - and do what we say.
i want to tell you that in romania, traian basescu, the president of the country, says that european leaders are putting the burden of the crisis on the backs of poor countries. it is the same traian basescu who, in romania, together with his government, protects the rich and makes the poor pay the bill for the crisis - here i am referring to pensioners, teachers and doctors, in general to those with very low incomes. to get out of the crisis, if we want to find real solutions for the european union to go forward and be a successful project, we must totally discourage hypocrisy, lies and double-talk. we need european leaders, as mrs creţu said, who say what they think and do what they say. we need honesty to find the best solutions to get out of the crisis.
on 6 may 2010, the european parliament voted overwhelmingly against the use of cyanide in mining at its seat in brussels. i regret to inform you that the political regime in bucharest cynically ignores the resolution voted by almost 500 members of the european parliament. i recently learned what i did not know last year: in transylvania a 800 hectare toxic waste pool is to be built, and the beneficiary of the gold corporation, which is trying to loot 300 tons of uranium, 800 tons of gold and 2000 tons of silver and commit some real barbarism, is the american shark george soros. i hear that the chairman of the european parliament's committee on the environment, my colleague jo leinen, will be visiting romania in november to analyse this untenable situation. i also invite mrs doris pack, president of the committee on culture, to come to romania and witness the sacrilege being perpetrated against an invaluable unesco heritage, namely the destruction of eight churches, nine cemeteries and 1,700 kilometres of roman galleries. stop the red mountain chernobyl!
rapporteur. − madam president, the free movement of workers is a very sensitive problem indeed. ultimately it is going to shape the economic and social future of the european union. as rapporteur i have to stress that we face a situation that is politically untenable and economically irrational. the free movement of workers cannot be accidental. it is a right that all the member states have agreed upon. yet we are witnessing a situation in which member states are deciding to introduce or to re-introduce restrictions and are even suggesting that they could introduce more later on. this is pure politics: national and electoral politics. the economics tell a very different story. for years, official figures – some of them from the commission – proved that east european migrant workers did not generate unemployment and did not put under stress the welfare systems in their countries of destination. on the contrary, this european influx brought economic growth, which is generally accepted and evaluated at around 1% of gdp. the idea of more europe has been fashionable lately. should we mean by this more europe for fewer europeans? because we do have a single market for capital and goods, but we do not have a single market for labour. what does this mean? this means that western companies can operate in the east, sometimes successfully, sometimes generating thousands of unemployed, while east european workers cannot seek a job in the west. and this is not all. the same countries that restrict east european workers, romanians and bulgarians in this case, are happy to hunt for the best of the best in eastern europe: medical doctors, engineers, it specialists. this should be stopped. it is economically, politically and morally wrong. people will seek jobs as it is their right to do so. we have granted them this right. that is what my report supports. that is what the committee supported in its vote, and this is what i hope this house will support tomorrow.
in writing. we cannot have a common internal market without the free movement of labour. romania and bulgaria continue to face restrictions on the european labour market. these restrictions have a legal basis and all the new member states have had restrictions. at the end of 2011 we will see how many member states will express their desire to extend restrictions on their labour market for romanians and bulgarians. i believe that the reasons for these extensions in the various member states are unfounded and promote in a populist style, which is not economically justified, the protection of their own labour market. but member states can fill in because they have certain professional gaps in certain sectors. at the same time, there is a black market in eu labour which is maintained by certain member states. if national legislation were applied more strictly and more rigorously, the need for restrictions on the labour market would disappear. and last but not least, with regard to the various directives, such as the blue card or the seasonal workers directive, which regulate the european labour market for workers from third countries, i believe that a primary condition for those member states wishing to bring in workers from third countries is to first remove restrictions for workers from within the eu.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague mr ungureanu on his excellent report. the free movement of workers is a fundamental right of the european union. this requires coordinated action between the institutions at national and european level to remove all existing barriers to the mobility of workers. given the vital role that smes play in the european economy and their contribution to boosting economic growth, employment and social cohesion, we need to have concrete actions for the development of smes so that they can absorb labour, especially from the younger generations. the increase in youth unemployment is alarming. according to eurostat, the number of unemployed people under 25 years of age in the european union is 5 139 000. the union must support these young people, including by multiplying projects such as the european employment mobility portal (eures) or the 'european jobs days'. labour mobility within the european union is a key element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for reform and economic recovery. in this context, the removal of labour market restrictions for romanian and bulgarian nationals is essential. i consider these restrictions to be discriminatory and excessive.
full implementation of the services directive plays a key role in maintaining the eu's global competitiveness. at the same time, a truly integrated single market for services will help to stimulate economic growth. i would point out that services account for more than two thirds of gdp and jobs at european level. the eu needs to encourage member states to identify and address legislative gaps that could constitute unjustified obstacles to the proper functioning of the services market. in romania, for example, performance tests will be carried out in the tourism, business and construction sectors. the single electronic contact point also aims to facilitate access to information on entering the romanian services market.
as the rapporteur said, nine out of ten jobs in the european union are in the service sector. this is clearly the driving force of the european union's economy, generating around two thirds of the community's gross domestic product. we need a truly functioning single market for services that functions as a key tool for generating growth and jobs and improving the union's global competitiveness. unfortunately, much remains to be done to ensure the proper functioning of the single market in services and i believe that the role of national, regional and local administrations in the states must be strengthened. the dialogue with them must also be intensified and, at the same time, the dialogue with the regions and local public authorities must be intensified. the peer review process is a valuable tool for identifying remaining obstacles. this is a shared responsibility and the success of the proposed actions will depend on the involvement of all relevant institutions and parties in this process.
i would also like to congratulate mrs diana wallis on the preparation of this report in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that access for consumers and smes to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms is essential for strengthening the single market. these courts provide confidentiality and speed of dispute resolution at better financial conditions than the judicial system. i would point out that, although commercial arbitration tribunals are fully functional in the member states, they primarily settle disputes of national law. the reason for this is the lack of legislative harmonisation at european level. thus, it is difficult to resolve a dispute within multiple legal systems. i therefore support the development of a code of good practice on standard contracts. they would facilitate the use of alternative mechanisms, in particular for international disputes of low value.
i too would like to first of all congratulate my colleague mr hökmark on this report. this crisis has highlighted the need to strengthen global economic governance, particularly in the financial area. the lack of a common framework could lead to macroeconomic imbalances and missed opportunities to exit the recession. the existing system needs to be improved by introducing new levels of regulation and control bodies. unfortunately, the international monetary fund or the informal meetings of the g20 are bodies with limited powers. the eu needs to find an integrated solution to the euro area debt crisis. the piecemeal approach has not worked so far. my country has already adopted austerity measures to maintain financial stability. the current account deficit in romania is below 5% of gdp, with a deficit target of below 3% of gdp for 2012.
in writing. unfortunately, single mothers are often a neglected demographic category, although five per cent of women in the european union currently fall into this category. in the context of the current economic crisis, these women have been particularly affected. often, in order to provide the financial support needed to raise their children, they must forego rest or medical services. we cannot be indifferent to our citizens who are experiencing hardship. i would like to stress the need for additional unemployment benefits for each child, but also priority access to affordable housing. i also believe that at eu, national and local level, single mothers should be offered flexible employment opportunities to enable them to reconcile their working and family lives.
the rapporteur. − madam president, the fourth high level forum on aid effectiveness, to be held in busan at the end of november, provides an opportunity for the international community to reaffirm, deepen and reframe commitments to make aid work better and to promote development. the expectations are obviously very high for a meeting which is hoped to give a fundamental boost to the achievement of the mdgs in preparation for the crucial 2015 exchange. for the busan meeting to be a success, several challenges must be met. first, there is the challenge of implementation. the latest assessments of the follow-up to the implementation of the paris declaration and the accra agenda on aid effectiveness show that we are on the right track. the implementation of these commitments has improved the quality of aid by reinforcing good practice. however, progress is modest and unevenly distributed between donor and recipient countries, and reforms are implemented too slowly. at european level, a recent commission study showed that a stronger application by member states of the principles of the code of conduct on the division of labour would have saved the union some eur 6 billion a year. this is obviously a huge missed opportunity for development. the second challenge, which is related to the first, is political. we need political will in busan. european leadership and strong political commitments are needed to advance the issue of development aid effectiveness at the global level. finally, there is the challenge of adaptation, the hard core of the paris declaration. the five principles of aid effectiveness must of course not be forgotten and must form the foundation on which we must build an improved agenda. development cooperation must adapt to the needs of a changing world. the emergence of new donors, the growing involvement of private actors, the diversity of development contexts, the craze for south-south cooperation must fundamentally transform the way aid effectiveness is understood today. so we need to build an effective and truly inclusive partnership for development in busan, taking into account the different circumstances in which aid is distributed today. my report identifies areas where further efforts are needed in terms of aid effectiveness, whether it be democratic ownership and alignment with the priorities of the beneficiaries, division of labour and improved coordination between donors, the necessary transparency of aid or the issue of fragmentation and predictability of aid. i am also pleased to note that there is a real convergence of views with the commission, which in its communication of 7 september proposed a common union position for the busan meeting based on substantially the same elements. the union and its member states have played a very important role in the past in shaping the international aid effectiveness agenda, from the paris forum to the accra meeting, aimed at accelerating the implementation of certain clear commitments. the union and its member states now contribute more than half of the official development assistance distributed worldwide. the lisbon treaty also placed the fight against poverty at the heart of european development policy. we have a great opportunity here to improve our instruments to achieve better development results. given our past commitment and the particular responsibility of the european union and the member states in development aid, we have a duty to rise to the challenge and take an ambitious stand in busan. the ball is now in the council's court, which will soon have to adopt a common european position for the fourth forum. the proposals in my report provide a good basis for trying to rally all states around clear principles which can guide our future action on aid effectiveness. we must respond to the demands for efficiency and democratic ownership from recipient countries through a new development partnership focused on the effective impact of aid on the achievement of development goals, which takes differentiated account of the diversity of situations and is designed to bring together the international community to promote more coordinated and less dispersed action.
i would first like to congratulate my colleague cristian preda on this very timely report in the context of the busan high level forum. i too believe that the eu must take an ambitious stance to increase the effectiveness of development aid. i welcome the emphasis on the need for greater transparency, accountability and coordination. i also stress the importance of decentralisation processes in the partner countries, as set out in paragraph 15. the involvement of local actors is essential to ensure that aid is effective and sustainable. for example, a project by the health matrix network, which invested in the capacity of local communities, helped reduce infant mortality in tanzania by 50% over a nine-year period. finally, i would point out the need for full implementation of the eu code of conduct on the division of labour in development policy.
by coordinating the economic and social policies of the member states, the european semester is an important step towards establishing sound european economic governance. tax policy must henceforth be a common area of action at european level. the reform programmes and the stability and convergence programmes must also include the requirements of stimulating economic growth and investment, guaranteeing a high level of education for all european citizens, ensuring social protection and creating jobs. in this regard, the annual recommendations addressed to both the member states and the union should be sufficiently ambitious to allow the achievement of the objectives set through the europe 2020 strategy. as a result of this first implementation exercise of the european semester, the commission will have to analyse the main problems facing the union and the member states and propose clear directions for reducing macroeconomic imbalances and stimulating balanced economic growth. i also believe, as do other colleagues, that the improvement of the european semester can only be achieved in full compliance with the powers granted to the european parliament, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, by fully involving parliament in the process of formulating recommendations.
the question of how to prevent mismanagement of public finances, of macroeconomic balances, we already have two answers. the financial market that gave a very strong response, in that it removed the mirage of relatively equal interest rates at which the euro area member states were borrowing. each member state is now judged on its own financial situation and pays interest accordingly. the second answer is provided by the new regulations on economic governance in the european union and under these new regulations, the european semester is the main instrument for structured analysis of the economic situations of each member state. we therefore have a responsibility to make this semester as effective as possible and we strongly emphasise the council's responsibility to explain publicly, with reasons, why it rejects some of the recommendations made by the european commission.
madam president, the council stated that parliament concluded the 2009 discharge procedure when it granted discharge and closure of accounts to the commission. this is wrong. i cannot believe that the council wants to spend money without scrutiny. however, this is what i see. this is neither responsible nor an example of good governance, transparency or accountability and is even more appalling during this time of financial crisis and a crisis of trust, when every euro must be accounted for and transparency and accountability enhanced. in democratic regimes, parliaments have the right to scrutinise the executive and its expenditures. the european union should not depart from this practice, and this is why i fully support the position of the rapporteur in not granting the discharge to the council.
member of the commission. - mr baldassare, i would first like to publicly thank you, in the presence of your colleagues, for your work as rapporteur on this important text. i expressed here, on the day of my hearing on january 13, 2010, my ambition to be the last commissioner to speak about the patent. that is why i have passionately supported this proposal, which has now been supported by 25 states. i hope that we will soon be joined by italy and spain on this proposal, which will make it possible to bring the european patent back to a competitive price. mr baldassare, you are talking about small and mediumsized enterprises or young inventors. it is for them first of all that this patent, this single title of protection, must be made. i have met small and mediumsized enterprises, young inventors who, because it is too expensive, do not protect themselves except in two or three countries, thus allowing counterfeit products, which are sometimes dangerous for health and the economy, to enter the single market by other means. we are therefore aware of the challenges and that is why we want to bring the legislative process under way to a successful conclusion, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are entitled to this competitive advantage. the first benefit for small and mediumsized enterprises, mr baldassare, would be a reduction in the - currently very high - cost of patents, for them and for all others, who are the first victims of the current situation. parliament has suggested, at your instigation, an alternative solution which would offer additional advantages for small and mediumsized enterprises. it would allow for additional reimbursement to these companies for translation costs related to the patent operation. i think this is a good proposal, which would be in line with the policy we want to implement on simplifying the patent system, reducing costs and special offers we want to make in all areas for small and mediumsized enterprises. as regards going further, as some national governments have done, with a national patent fund, which could become a european fund, we are working on this, as you know, with my colleague tajani. i personally think it is a good idea to go further, beyond reimbursement of the costs of registration and translation, with a european fund, but we need to look into this idea in the context of the next financial perspective.
first of all, i would like to express my appreciation for the efforts of the three commissioners to adopt the framework necessary for the existence of a fully integrated european market and to recall that the single market is the core of cooperation between the 27 member states of the european union, guaranteeing the free movement of goods, services, capital and persons. these fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaty suffer, however, from differences when they are transposed into certain national contexts. this is compounded by the current economic and financial context which favours protectionist policies. one of the 12 levers to stimulate economic growth is worker mobility. i would like to know how you, commissioner barnier, see this desirable situation reconciled with the maintenance of obstacles to the free movement and employment of citizens of the new member states.
member of the commission. - mr cutaş, in your question you mentioned an important point which should concern us all: protectionist reactions. i am personally very struck by this and that is why we have a duty to act quickly on certain populist or protectionist impulses in many of our states. behind these movements, which are based on social or economic anxiety, sometimes anger, there is protectionism, mr cutaş. the first victim of this return to protectionism, national and even nationalist retreat, is the single market, with its present strength in the world for europe. we are working on one of the levers, but the other eleven are levers against protectionism, which does not mean against certain protections. europe must also be able to protect, to protect its citizens and consumers better, but protection is not synonymous with protectionism. as regards mobility, which is one of the 12 levers, we are working, as i said earlier, on several chapters, in particular on vocational qualifications. we will promote mobility by simplifying the procedures for mutual recognition of qualifications and making them more efficient. we are going to propose - as parliament is working on it and wants to - the creation of a european professional card to facilitate this mobility across all the member states. naturally, at a time when we have a demographic problem in europe with a shrinking working population, it is very important that we have this mobility response to deal with the lack of skilled labour in some countries, thanks to the internal market. a few professions are directly affected, notably in the fields of health, education, engineering, and this is where we want to facilitate this mobility.
in short, i just want to tell the commissioner that unfortunately these measures are still quite few and i think more needs to be done to modernise the european legislative framework so that the barriers that prevent european citizens from working in any other country disappear.
in an attempt to have a broad compromise, i propose that the term 'global' be introduced before the 'ftt'.
since this is a similar proposal to the one before, i expect, as in the first case, opposition. so i prefer to withdraw the oral amendment.
among the many valid findings in my colleague adam kos, i would like to highlight the ideas on equal opportunities. the report concludes that equality of opportunity does not mean that we provide equal opportunities for all, because equal opportunities are created when the same effort for all leads to the same result. for example, in the case of indigenous national minorities whose mother tongue is different from the official language of their member state , genuine equality of opportunity is achieved when they are able to study and to make a living in their mother tongue under the same conditions as members of the majority nation. disabled women, elderly people are more disadvantaged, but disabled people belonging to an indigenous national minority are also in the same situation. equal opportunities therefore also constitute positive discrimination against those who would suffer disadvantages under the same conditions.
i very much supported the report by mr ungureanu and voted in favour because, as i said in the hearing on this subject last week, the free movement of workers from the member states that joined in 2004 and 2007 did not produce imbalances in the labour market at the end of the first stage of the transition, as the european commission's 2008 communication states. therefore, the maintenance of restrictions by some member states has no economic basis but is based solely on political reasons. the current obstacles to mobility range from psychological and cultural barriers, sometimes generated by stereotypes, to bureaucracy. if the former are more difficult to manage, the latter can be re-analyzed and resolved. another barrier to mobility is the recognition of professional qualifications.
in writing. − there were serious irregularities in the implementation of the european police college budget for the financial year 2009. however, i voted in favour of granting it the discharge, primarily due to the new management and governance of the college, which displayed a commitment to tackle its deficiencies and to implement measures required by the european parliament, in particular the revision of the financial regulation of the college, the application of the procurement manual and the decision of its governing board to grant voting rights to the commission. the fulfilment of these commitments will be closely monitored during the 2010 discharge procedure. i call for cepol to be merged into europol in order to reduce expenditure and increase efficiency. this is why i called on the court of auditors to prepare a special report, during 2012, setting out the costs and benefits in financial and operational terms of merging the college’s responsibilities with those of europol. as rapporteur for the 2010 discharge of the eu agencies, i strongly believe that the rationalisation of eu agencies is both necessary and relevant.
in writing. − the discharge for 2009 was granted today to the european medicines agency. however, i would like to point out that the agency failed to provide the parliament with the action plan on public procurement, its timetable for implementation and the updated documents on the management and prevention of conflicts of interests, as requested in may 2011 when the discharge was postponed. these areas will be closely monitored. these were part of the amendments which i tabled and were adopted during the vote in the committee on budgetary control and integrated in the final report voted on today by the plenary. as parliament’s rapporteur for the 2010 discharge of the eu agencies’ budgets i will closely monitor the european medicines agency and look in particular at conflicts of interests and cost-efficiency criteria in each and every eu agency. these issues will bear considerable weight in the decision on discharge.
in writing. − alternative dispute resolution is an out-of-court settlement mechanism whereby consumers and traders are helped to settle their disagreements through a mediator or arbitrator. i welcome the commission's intention to encourage the use of alternative dispute resolution methods which are accessible, not costly, fast, efficient and offer the possibility of establishing and maintaining good commercial, economic, social and neighbourly relations, based on mutual trust, and which can contribute to raising the level of consumer protection in mutually advantageous situations, which offer more benefits to all parties than the current case law. i consider it essential to urgently address the existing shortcomings in the geographical coverage of alternative dispute resolution in europe and i encourage the existence of an effective system of out-of-court dispute resolution for consumer contracts that is functional throughout the european union.
in writing. − the availability of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms is one of the key elements to increase the confidence of european consumers and businesses in the single market. at present, many consumers and businesses are reluctant to transact cross-border for fear of not being able to resolve disputes properly. but this reluctance to engage in crossborder transactions deprives consumers and businesses of the benefits of a competitive internal market. we need dispute resolution mechanisms that are fast, efficient, independent and, above all, as low-cost as possible. this would have a real advantage over judicial procedures which are long and costly. furthermore, the promotion of adr will also lead to a smoother functioning of the judicial system, as some cases will be resolved through mediation or arbitration. the essential condition is, of course, that these alternative mechanisms are properly promoted by informing consumers and businesses so that they are used more widely. i therefore believe that it is desirable to have a legislative proposal from the commission as soon as possible, which follows the guidelines of this report, so that all eu citizens have access to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms.
in writing. − as in some member states, such as romania, courts are overwhelmed by the volume of files on file, i support the european commission's intention to encourage the use of alternative dispute resolution. the romanian courts have over 138 500 cases older than one year, according to the monitoring report of the judicial inspectorate attached to the plenum of the superior council of magistracy. of these, 4001 files are between 5 and 10 years old and 586 are over 10 years old. so i think we need a set of rules to govern the resolution of disagreements through mediation or arbitration. however, their appointment must avoid potential conflicts of interest and must be based on professional competence and impartiality. it is also necessary to increase the information of citizens on the functioning and advantages of the use of alternative dispute resolution. last but not least, this mechanism of out-of-court amicable settlement must remain optional, in order not to prejudice access to justice.
in writing. − directive 2000/25/25/ec reduces the permissible levels of exhaust (gaseous and particle) emissions from engines in agricultural and forestry tractors. an amendment in 2005 introducing ambitious reduction targets in pm and nox values provided for a possibility for the commission to conduct a technical review in order to examine the available technology, with a view to confirming stage iii b and iv limit values, and evaluate the possible need for additional flexibilities, exemptions or later introduction dates for certain types of equipment or engines. the commission conducted this review and came to the conclusion that for engine categories t2, c2, and t4.1 it was appropriate to postpone for 3 years the introduction of category iiib and iv for narrow-track tractors with a maximum width of 1.15 m, as relevant data confirmed that more time is required to enable manufacturers to develop stage iiib-compliant systems. i strongly support the proposal, which asks the commission to present the ep, on a yearly basis, with a progress report on the development of technical solutions for stage iv.
in writing. − the non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) directive (97/68/ec) aims to control carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulates emissions (co2 emissions are not covered by this legislation) from a variety of engines such as excavators, bulldozers, front loaders, back loaders and compressors. the directive was amended in 2004 to introduce new emission limits and, with that, the flexibility scheme. the flexibility scheme allows manufacturers to place on the market a limited number of engines belonging to the older category (with higher maximum permitted exhaust emissions). i support the following compromises: the flexibility scheme to be increased to 37.5% of the annual quantity of equipment placed on the market for the duration of the stage iiib or up to three years when no subsequent stage exists; 16 engines for locomotives to be compliant with the previous stage standards and additionally 10 engines for locomotives that can be used in the uk due to specific rail conditions. environmental legislation should always be consistent with our medium-term and long-term environmental goals, but in the short run we are making efforts to support the recovery of smes from the economic crisis.
in writing. − i supported this report as it is an important part of eu legislation on the environment and public health. the report provides for the protection of human health, in particular of workers and persons who are often exposed to emissions from engines installed in non-road mobile machinery.
in writing. − people with disabilities must have the right to community-based services that promote independent living, the right to personal assistance, the right to economic and social independence and full participation in society and the labour market. as full citizens, persons with disabilities have equal rights, including the right to unquestioned dignity, equal treatment, independent living and full participation in society. i would like to draw attention to the fact that many persons with disabilities continue to be discriminated against in terms of equal recognition before the law and the judiciary, and i encourage member states to address these shortcomings, including effective access to justice for persons with disabilities and adequate training of judicial administrative staff. i also stress the importance of guaranteeing and ensuring equal conditions for participation in political and public life.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe it is essential that the obstacles preventing people with disabilities from exercising their fundamental rights are removed. europe needs to provide people with disabilities with the ability to enjoy full rights and to participate in european social and economic life. in this context, the eu should encourage member states to harmonise policies and strategies relating to persons with disabilities. i would like to mention that these people are one of the groups most affected by the financial crisis in europe. in my country, building an effective model of integration for people with disabilities is the main objective of the national organization of people with disabilities. currently, three projects funded by european funds are mainly aimed at integrating people with disabilities into the romanian labour market.
in writing. − one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to increase the number of jobs for the nearly 80 million people with disabilities in the eu. the employment rate of disabled people and people with reduced working capacity is generally low across the eu, with only 30-40% of these people in employment. the situation is more dramatic in the newly admitted states. for example, the latest statistics show that in romania only 4% of the 631,000 people with disabilities are in employment. it is clear that for these people, a job means a chance at a normal life. romania's new labor law requires large firms with more than 50 employees to employ 4% of people with disabilities. in particular, for every 50 employees, 2 must be from the disabled population, for every 100 employees, 4 must be disabled, and so on. there is currently a functioning government programme in romania whereby any company that employs people with disabilities for at least 2 years receives 500 lei (approximately eur 120) per month for them.
in writing. − one in four europeans with disabilities is at risk of poverty, as many eu governments have resorted to shocking cuts in social assistance. people with disabilities also face severe discrimination, from low numbers attending high school or college to difficulties in obtaining employment and access to health services. one of the foreseeable consequences of not integrating the disabled into the labour force will be the failure of the europe 2020 strategy target of reaching an employment rate of 75% of the total working population aged 20-64. last but not least, i would like to stress that more than a third of europeans over 75 have a disability, and the proportion of the elderly is increasing. investments in adapting education systems and in preventing disability and its secondary consequences can lower social budgets and would ensure improved prospects for the integration of our fellow citizens with disabilities. on these grounds, i support the resolution.
in writing. − i believe that all member states must review and improve their social policies for people with disabilities so that their social and economic situation becomes normal. i believe that the european commission, in collaboration with the member states, must act and develop strategies to remove the obstacles and the various problems faced by men, women and children with disabilities and to ensure their effective participation in society on an equal basis of dignity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european parliament has a duty to focus on the situation of people with disabilities and that they must be included in all strategies for the future of the eu, with a view to respecting both the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and equal opportunities for all citizens. i believe that the situation of people with disabilities must be addressed in the long term, from the perspective of social investment, and i believe that the strengthening of their active participation in public life must be emphasised. as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy, i believe it is important to support research and development of technologies for people with disabilities to bridge social gaps and to give greater importance to the creation of accessible websites and effective communication channels for all european citizens with disabilities. last but not least, i support the rapporteur's position that education and training systems are not adequately prepared to take into account the needs of young people with disabilities and i believe that the europe 2020 strategy needs to take these issues into account and address them appropriately.
in writing. − people with disabilities are a vulnerable group, with a poverty rate 70% above average. this increased exposure to the risk of poverty is the result of often limited access to jobs, vocational training and healthcare. this is why it is important that more disabled people and workers with disabling illnesses are in employment. in this context, member states should be encouraged to introduce special employment quotas or measures to adapt jobs to the needs of disabled people. the european parliament and the european commission could start to employ people with disabilities, setting an example for other member states.
in writing. − as job accessibility, employer mentality and specific or related legislation in some eu countries disadvantage the employment of people with disabilities and little attention is paid to programmes to prevent the onset of disability in newborns or to prevent its lifelong acquisition by identifying the causes and eliminating or reducing them, i consider it essential to transfer good practice between eu member states and to intensify collaboration through working groups at european level. recall the importance of a relevant assessment of the situation of persons with disabilities and the establishment of national priorities on the avoidance of family transfers of persons with disabilities to residential centres on the grounds of poverty. i would stress the importance of access in all member states to the 112 emergency service or other services designed to save the life of the disabled person or his or her family members, including for the hearing-impaired/deaf-mutes. i draw attention to the importance of linking labour market demand with the development of new schools focused on vocational training and establishing the 16-18 years as the area of training and preparation for access to the labour market and increasing the chance of success in job retention and sustainability.
in writing. − the employment level for people with disabilities and whose work capacity has changed is generally low throughout the eu, with 30-40% of them working; the situation is even worse in the poorer member states, whilst the employment level needs to rise by approximately 1% per year if the 75% level set out in eu2020 is to be met. meanwhile, 12 million jobs suitable for low-qualified workers will disappear by 2020. in this respect, employers should allow people with disabilities to take up a position, if qualified, advance in it and to support them by training. the european commission and the member states should support the flexibility in the labour market combined with an adequate social security system by creating flexible and secure contractual arrangements and work organisations, effective active labour market policies and reliable and responsive lifelong learning systems. member states should review their provision of health services for people with disabilities, such as measures relating to physical accessibility to services, training and medical staff, information provided in accessible formats, customised counselling services, including translation into various languages, and health services customised to the needs of people with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is imperative to increase equality of opportunity for people with disabilities. this means giving them the right to health and education, social protection, adequate means of communication, while ensuring their integration into society and facilitating their access to suitable jobs.
in writing. − i voted for the modernisation of eu public procurement policy. public procurement accounts for around 17% of eu gdp and can play an important role in ensuring sustainable employment, fostering innovation and sustainable working conditions, especially for businesses, and promoting social inclusion. the legislative framework on public procurement must also reflect the specific nature of social services, the economic and innovative potential of smes and, not least, ensure compliance with the applicable principles - competition, transparency, non-discrimination, efficiency.
in writing. − as europe seeks solutions to overcome the crisis and boost growth, i think it is good to propose a revision of public procurement criteria to take into account the life-cycle costs of the relevant goods, services or works, and not just the lowest price. it has been found that sometimes this criterion has led to additional downstream costs simply because the necessary post-contract services during the use of goods or services purchased at the lowest price have not been taken into account. this principle should be taken into account in particular in areas such as food or health, with a view to access based on value for money and not just the cheapest offer available to consumers, such as hospitals, care centres for the elderly, schools or kindergartens, with a view to equal access to healthy food.
in writing. − european public procurement legislation has mainly aimed at implementing transparent procurement arrangements by tackling irregularities, reducing red tape and simplifying enforcement procedures. current practice in this area indicates the need for better alignment of national criteria with european legislation. the new provisions can create a legislative framework favourable to increasing access to public procurement for smes by avoiding the introduction of additional bureaucratic procedures. i stress the importance of establishing additional criteria for the award of public contracts. the introduction of the 'most economically advantageous' criterion will take into account objectives that bring economic and social benefits and have a low environmental impact. only 50% of eu public procurement is conducted electronically, but even here there are many imperfections in the implementation of an effective e-procurement system. i consider that a common framework is necessary to establish the procedures for contesting the results of tenders. in some member states, litigation is the main obstacle to investment. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the future of public procurement can be an important source of job creation and skills development in research and innovation.
in writing. − the report on the modernisation of public procurement (pp) is based on the green paper preceding the imminent legislative proposals from the commission on pp (due to come in dec 2011), its content being relevant to the future legislative report. i voted for this report because pp could be a real driver in promoting quality jobs, wages and conditions, and equality, developing skills and training, promoting environmental policies, and providing incentives for research and innovation. i fully support the request to the commission to encourage governments and contracting authorities to increase the use of sustainable public procurement supporting and promoting good quality employment, and providing quality services and goods in europe. i consider there are good provisions relating to smes, to the fight against corruption and to e-public procurement.
in writing. − although the right to live and work in any country of the european union is a basic component of european citizenship, recognised by the treaties, statistics show that too few people are still exercising this right. in times of economic crisis, occupational and geographical mobility of workers can contribute to reducing unemployment by matching labour supply with demand, to job creation opportunities, to adapting the economy, society and demography to structural change, and to promoting economic growth and eu competitiveness. these obstacles and restrictions violate a fundamental worker's right, make it more difficult for eu economies to recover and can lead to counterproductive effects such as unlawful work and exploitation of workers. i believe that freedom of movement for workers should be encouraged, as it represents a positive socioeconomic example both for the european union and for the member states, constituting a landmark in integration that contributes to economic development, social cohesion, individual professional development, combating prejudice, racism and xenophobia and also helping to counterbalance the negative effects of the economic crisis.
in writing. − the call by the european legislator for member states to allow romanians and bulgarians access to the labour market by the end of 2011 is in fact a call for normality, especially as analyses clearly show that the integration of the two states in 2007 did not have a negative impact on the labour market in any of the member states. official figures, including those from the european commission, show that workers in eastern europe have not generated unemployment and put pressure on social protection systems. on the contrary, the influx brought economic growth in the destination countries, estimated at 1% of gdp. it is becoming imperative that all member states review their rules on transition periods before opening up access to the labour market. we hope that the countries that still impose restrictions on romanians and bulgarians will lift them by the end of 2011, i.e. before the 2013 deadline set in the eu accession treaty. in the long term, these restrictions may have a negative impact on the fundamental values and rights enshrined in the eu treaties, such as freedom of movement, non-discrimination, solidarity and equality of rights. europe has no first-class or second-class citizens. congratulations to your hungarian colleague on the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on promoting the mobility of workers within the european union in the hope of removing the discriminatory barriers imposed on romanians and bulgarians after eu accession. beyond the unfairness of these restrictions, it has been shown that the exercise of the right of free movement does not have adverse effects on the labour market. it is also of concern that gender differences in labour mobility within the eu are disadvantageous for women, which is why better monitoring is needed in this regard. many women who move abroad for work work work for private entities, often illegally, as baby-sitters, and therefore lack social security, healthcare and protection from abuse by employers. more attention and involvement is needed in this regard. last but not least, the removal of counterproductive restrictions within the european union can help kick-start economic recovery and achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − in the context of an ageing european population, i believe that the mobility of workers in the eu labour market is a beneficial process, but it is necessary to remove all existing restrictions for workers from the new member states. in order for the union to achieve its growth targets and the europe 2020 targets for job creation, i believe it is useful to carry out periodic assessments of the professions in short supply and the sectors facing recruitment difficulties. these evaluations should be linked to european educational programmes and measures to use the experience of older people at the end of their careers to make the best possible transfer of skills to young people. last but not least, a link with vocational retraining programmes for the unemployed is needed to reduce the number of unemployed and to cover the labour needs for the shortage occupations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the free movement of workers is an essential step towards the completion of the single market and the consolidation of a strong european identity. despite some member states maintaining restrictions on labour market opening to new member states, labour migration has had a positive effect on the eu as a whole. in its amendments to this report, we underlined that labour mobility within the european union is fundamental to economic recovery and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives and called on member states that maintain labour market restrictions for romanian and bulgarian nationals to lift these restrictions by the end of 2011. furthermore, i believe that there is no sound socioeconomic argument to support the maintenance of these labour market restrictions.
in writing. − studies are well known that highlight the positive effect of labour mobility from the new member states on overall gdp, the moderate effects on gdp per capita, the minor impact of post-enlargement labour mobility on local workers' wages. i supported the resolution drafted by my colleague traian ungureanu, because the reasons for the restrictions introduced by some european states cannot be economic, as long as romanians are required for highly qualified professions - and here i mean engineers, doctors, teachers, it specialists. recent statistics reveal new trends in the mobility of highly qualified people, a phenomenon that is also increasing in the context of the economic crisis. in view of these aspects, i hope that by the end of this year the european commission will encourage member states to remove the barriers imposed on the labour market for romanian and bulgarian workers.
in writing. − labour migration within the eu has long been perceived as a potential problem, causing imbalances at national level in terms of shortages of labour supply and affecting collective bargaining and wages within host countries. it has, though, had a beneficial effect on the eu as a whole. according to the november 2008 commission communication, mobility flows have had a major positive impact on economic growth in the european union. however, if we focus on details, we notice problems related to changing cultures, adjusting to new languages and alienation from the family, to which there are also other barriers related to enjoying the full exercise of free movement. the member states should improve the situation of the children left behind by their parents and help them develop normally, benefiting from education and an appropriate social life. the member states should create mechanisms of cooperation aimed at preventing such devastating effects on families, especially on children, caused by separation from their parents and the distance between them. the member states and the european commission should determine the social partners and the ngos which will be more involved in such actions aimed at improving the situation of migrants’ children.
in writing. − i voted in favour, given the need to stimulate the peer review process provided for in the services directive. the experiences and results of peer evaluation are useful and valuable and the report therefore proposes to extend its use to other areas of action. the services directive was adopted in 2006 and remains a key instrument for creating a fully operational single market for services. member states have made substantial efforts to implement it. however, efforts should be stepped up to ensure full and correct implementation of the services directive and to establish fully operational single points of contact.
in writing. − i voted for this report because effective global economic governance would minimise the negative impacts and correct the harmful effects of globalisation, such as the deepening of inequalities or the destruction of the environment. global economic governance is needed as the us and the eu continue to face the worst effects of the worst international economic downturn since the great depression. at the same time, social and economic inequalities between and within countries need to be reduced. last but not least, the fight against poverty in europe must be one of the top priorities of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this financial and economic crisis has demonstrated that capital flows must be accompanied by a responsible monetary policy, adequate regulation and sound financial supervision. i believe that we need strong structural reforms from governments to ensure the sustainability of public finances and to boost economic growth. this means fully respecting the agreed fiscal targets and accelerating structural reforms. global imbalances pose a serious threat to financial and macroeconomic stability of states and can have long-term repercussions. so, leaders of states around the world must continue to find viable solutions to reform global economic governance. in this way, they will help to restore the global economy and avoid a similar situation in the future.
in writing. − in europe, a very high percentage of single parent cases are single mothers over the age of 25. member states must guarantee equal treatment and maintain a high quality of life for all children, regardless of the marital status of the parents or the family structure, by providing general allowances. as regards the encouragement of activities to help single mothers, i believe that these efforts should be directed towards strengthening the self-confidence and independence of single mothers, towards reducing their passive and isolating behaviours, towards improving social skills and parenting skills, by giving them better access to information on rights and employment opportunities.
in writing. − in the eu, on average, 85% of single parents are mothers aged 25-64, and in some member states single mothers represent as much as 9% of the total female population. statistics show that single-parent households are much more vulnerable to poverty risk and perpetuation than are two-parent households: according to the most recent data available in 2006, 32% of single-parent households in the eu-25 were at risk of poverty, compared with 12% of couples with children. in addition, the gender pay gap, which is on average 18% in the eu, increases when women become mothers and continues until retirement. i voted for the resolution in view of this hostile context for single mothers and the need to support them, particularly in countries where support for single-parent families is non-existent or worryingly diminished in the context of the crisis, such as romania.
in writing. − according to the latest statistics, the number of single mothers is increasing alarmingly across the union. in this context, member states should pay attention to this, as the main risk is the poverty into which these women may fall. it's not the same to be a single mother in the northern countries, where you're protected and helped, and to be a single mother in other countries, where you're subject to social exclusion. i strongly believe that the european union and the member states must design strategies that pay greater attention to gender issues and identify common policies based on and sharing good practices in europe, so that there is no longer discrimination against a single mother from one country to another at the level of the union.
in writing. − in a society where the concept of the family is changing, we need to pay due attention to the difficulties faced by single parents: both women and men. the pay gap, however, makes the situation of single mothers more difficult. in european societies, the ways in which this problem is tackled vary from the help received from the extended family to well-established national social protection systems. however, the danger of poverty persists, risking to perpetuate itself to the next generation and reducing the chances of success in life of children. furthermore, social stigma increases the risk of child abandonment. possible solutions call for health care for single mothers with incomes below the national average, affordable housing, and child care networks in day care centers and nurseries so that mothers can continue their careers. also, appropriate unemployment benefits for single mothers can contribute to a decent life for these single-parent families. equally useful to me is the concept of social entrepreneurship - a business that tackles a social problem, in diverse fields and with varied target groups. this is a personal and professional value addition to the vulnerable individuals employed and is also a profit generator for the company.
in writing. − single mothers are an often overlooked demographic category, with 5% of women in europe currently being single mothers. in the context of the negative effects of the economic and financial crisis, in addition to the high unemployment rate among single mothers, poverty has serious consequences for the children being raised and cared for by single mothers. member states should adopt public policies, including education, care, health, employment, social security systems, housing policies to support the needs of single-parent families. access (through esf and member state funding) to initial training, vocational training and scholarships for single mothers (unmarried, widowed or separated) must be facilitated, young pregnant women must be encouraged not to drop out of their studies, as education will enable them to gain qualifications and maximise their chances of decent working conditions, well-paid jobs and financial independence. member states must ensure that all allowances (maintenance) are paid regularly by the parent who does not have custody of the child and take into account the gender factor and in particular the situation of single mothers in the reform of their pension systems.
in writing. − organized crime has significant social costs, by draining and embezzling resources, distorting the free common market, corrupting legitimate businesses and economic activities, fostering corruption, polluting and destroying the environment, and violating human rights and democratic rules. the effects of this phenomenon have a profound impact on the duties of the european union towards its citizens and it is therefore necessary for the institutions to make a concrete political effort to combat organised crime that produces tangible and significant effects. organised crime, especially mafia-type crime, is taking advantage of globalisation, the disappearance of borders within the eu and the differences in legislation between member states to make increasingly important profits while ensuring impunity. this is possible because organised crime has created a network of consensus and support, with deep and solid infiltrations into the world of politics, public administration and the legal economy. in romania, a bill was recently passed that makes usury a crime punishable by imprisonment from six months to five years. also, money and property derived from this activity is confiscated. the clergy, especially in times of economic crisis, thrive and destroy lives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report which aims to combat organised crime at eu level. organized crime entails not only the trampling on the fundamental rights of the many and the honest, but also significant social costs, by draining and misappropriating resources (financial, labour, etc.), by altering the common free market, by corrupting legitimate businesses and economic activities, by encouraging corruption, by polluting and destroying the environment, and by violating human rights and democratic rules. the report will improve the eu's legislative framework with specific measures to tackle the internationalisation of mafia-like criminal organisations. improving the functioning of european structures responsible for combating organised crime and relations with other international institutions such as unodc and interpol is of fundamental importance in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider organised crime to be one of the main threats to both the internal security of the european union and the freedom and security of citizens. such crime disrupts free trade and the common market, slows down the economy and business, promotes corruption and violates fundamental human rights, all of which pose a serious threat to democracy. i support the transnational and cross-border approach proposed by the rapporteur to combat this phenomenon and believe that the presence of the mafia in many eu member states requires an effective common response. i believe that the proposals to improve the eu's legislative framework are welcome and that the measures proposed to combat the internationalisation of criminal organisations can have positive results. last but not least, i believe that the european structures involved in the fight against organised crime are of key importance and must be strengthened, and their relations with other international bodies such as interpol must be enhanced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on organised crime in the eu, which outlines the need for an eu strategy to fight organised crime, to include legislative and operational measures, allocation of funds, and a rigorous implementation timetable. the report also underlines the importance of promoting a culture of legality. i tabled amendments in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for (i) the consolidation of the legal and institutional framework regarding confiscation of assets (including civil confiscation), which result from organised crime, (ii) legislation on the re-use of crime proceeds for social purposes, (iii) proper protection of people agreeing to cooperate with the judiciary and of whistle blowers, (iv) transparency in the use of european funds, and (v) setting up the european prosecutor’s office with a robust mandate to investigate serious cross-border crimes, including organised crime and corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on aid effectiveness for development, given that transparency and accountability are fundamental conditions for aid effectiveness, not only between donor and recipient governments, but also between the state and society. donors and partner countries agreed in the accra agenda for action to disseminate timely and detailed information on aid flows so that developing countries can budget and audit their accounts with greater precision. it is also of the utmost importance that donor countries - and the eu in particular, as the leading global actor in development aid - support the strengthening of the institution of national parliaments and the involvement of local authorities and civil society organisations in linking development policy with the process of democratisation, as many developing countries face major shortcomings not only in economic and social terms but also in the development and functioning of democratic institutions.
nokia's relocation in romania leaves thousands of people unemployed and severely affects the national economy at a difficult time. unfortunately, at the end of nokia's three years in our country, the company's motto could become 'disconnecting people', as a finnish newspaper proposed. it was clearly a specific investment for the third world, as is being attempted today in the case of rosia montana for the start of cyanide-based gold mining. the unscrupulous pursuit of profit only accentuates the precariousness of the many, national egos, and skepticism. nokia has taken full advantage of the facilities generously offered by the romanian authorities, benefiting from tax rewards without fulfilling its obligations. now he's decided to close the gates with a cynicism beyond compare. while the bochum unionists in germany received compensation of 60 minimum wages, romanian employees are offered only three compensatory wages, and their chances of reintegration are practically non-existent in the current economic context. i therefore call for the european commission to be involved urgently in order to ensure that staff made redundant receive decent treatment in order to support their professional conversion. the sharp drop in steel market transactions and prices is also likely to trigger further restructuring in the steel industry. there is a risk that 10 years after privatisation, the nearly 9000 romanian employees of the arcelor mittal combined company in galati will be affected. a common strategy is needed at all levels of decision-making to maintain productive capacities and ensure that workers' interests are effectively protected. in view of the prospect of increased unemployment, i believe that the european commission's priority must be to preserve jobs, not controls on electricity tariffs, which help to preserve production units. we need a proper order of priorities, and jobs must take precedence over other considerations in energy market agreements.
madam president, the so-called nokia incident is no accident. it tells us two very instructive things. first, helped by nokia, we have found out how we europeans lost our competitive edge. for too long, producers chose to relocate in order to reduce production costs. that was fine from a cost-reduction perspective, but it was not a guarantee of increased quality in a very competitive market. cheap is not enough. that is what companies like nokia found in romania. nokia closed up shop in romania because it was severely hit by its own lack of mobility in terms of innovation. so costs are important, but knowledge and innovation are vital. from this point of view nokia only has itself to blame. what about the 2 000 or so romanians made instantly unemployed by nokia? should they blame the smart phones that defeated nokia? that would not be very smart. the problem for romanian workers is that a unified european market allows nokia to operate successfully or unsuccessfully in romania, while romanians face a restricted labour market. in other words, romanians won the right to be made unemployed by nokia, only to then be denied a job anywhere else in europe. that is the second lesson that we can learn from the nokia fiasco in romania. of course, assistance from the globalisation adjustment fund could alleviate the problem, but only an unrestricted european labour market will solve it.
the transfer of nokia from romania certainly had negative effects at local and regional level. as was emphasised throughout the debate, access to the egf can help to reduce the social impact on people who have lost their jobs as a result of this decision. the romanian authorities are currently in talks with companies that could take over the industrial park at jucu. at the local level, a significant number of unemployed people must be managed and alternative sources of revenue for the budget found. it also requires the use of its own natural resources. romania has important gold, silver and copper deposits, the exploitation of which can produce new jobs, especially at roşia montană, certez and băiţa - crăciuneşti. but short-term solutions are not enough, measures are needed to make romania much more attractive to investors.
three years ago, nokia announced that it was abandoning mobile phone production at its bochum plant and moving to more cost-competitive areas. 2,300 employees were affected at the time. the relocation of production to romania cost nokia over 82 million euros, but a month ago, the finnish manufacturer's management announced the closure of the factory in cluj and the layoff of 2200 workers. it is worrying that this time nokia is leaving one of the most advantageous convergence regions of the eu for cheap and accessible labour and possibly leaving the eu, perhaps choosing more attractive asian markets for production and consumption. i would like to ask the commission what urgent measures can be taken in the fields of employment, research and innovation to save the relocations from the eu to third countries whose effects we are already feeling?
madam president! i want to make it clear in advance that i have two nokia phones and i will continue to buy nokia phones in the future, but we have to decide whether we are protecting the interests of banks, big corporations or citizens, profit or employment. then nokia will go to asia, and then we can speak under the banner of "human rights in the world" to protest against the fact that people in asia are forced to work for minimum wage or starvation wages. at the very least, if this company took a grant, it should pay it back. my question is the same as that of my colleague matula: what measures can the commission take to put an end to this unfortunate situation, which has not only been the case for nokia in eastern europe, but also for many other large companies, where we have not done enough to put an end to this unfortunate situation?
the relocation of companies from eu countries is not only an effect of the economic crisis but also of the wrong policies pursued by some member states. one example is romania, where, despite the government investing in infrastructure and providing facilities to ensure optimal operating conditions, nokia decided to close the factory. as a result of this decision, several thousand people lost their jobs. in the european union in particular, romanian citizens are in a worse situation, as jobs in romania are becoming fewer and fewer and, unfortunately, the european labour market is also becoming more restrictive for them. i am referring to the measure taken by spain to restrict access to the labour market in a discriminatory manner to romanian nationals only. i have put a written question to the commission on this subject a long time ago and have not yet received a reply, although the situation is serious. if i can't expect anything from the government in bucharest, i expect something from the comise in this area.
the eu 2020 strategy includes two important objectives, research and job creation, but there is a risk that we will not be able to achieve them in the way the european union wants, as long as actions such as those undertaken by nokia and arcelor mittal to suppress factories and relocate brand activities outside europe take place. we have discussed and approved in the european parliament proposals to make european industry more competitive, but we have not taken into account such actions which greatly affect the national and local budgets of the member states, which are obliged to intervene with social measures. i believe that the european union should impose a number of conditions on private companies wishing to relocate their activities, especially if they have announced significant benefits in the period preceding the closure of some locations and have received important facilities to create jobs, as happened in romania.
in writing. under the pressure of the economic crisis, political babble and unfinished projects, the eu risks becoming the big loser in global competition. we look with frustration at emerging economies and revolt when multinational companies like nokia or arcelor decide to move their businesses out of europe. but europe expects firm action, not complaints, and the power is in our hands, the europeans, to change what now seems to be an implacable destiny. one of the right answers is to return to our own resources. we must complete one of the most important projects, the european single market. we have enormous potential at our disposal which we are not exploiting because we do not have common legislation recognised by all the member states, we do not have common regulations in as many of the areas which are relevant to the common market, but we do have many barriers. in time, the ec now has the same duty to respond to nokia's layoffs in jucu, romania, as it did to those in bochum, germany, but these responses are only palliative. without a functioning single market, the eu will remain a mere spectator to the rise of its competitors.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank regina bastos for her cooperation on this report and also all of my colleagues who tabled amendments to this report. as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to mention that the achievement of sustainable growth has to be based on an inclusive labour market. therefore, we underline the necessity of reducing labour market segmentation. we know that sectoral collective agreements normally establish minimum conditions which can be improved by collective bargaining at company level, and that these minimum conditions are essential to protect workers from being exploited. the commission proposal on the decentralisation of collective bargaining is not in favour of social partners having the autonomy to decide what the appropriate level for collective agreement is. we call on the commission to respect and promote this right. we should link the segmentation of the labour market to the simultaneous achievement of a high and adequate level of protection for workers under all forms of contracts, including those on typical temporary agency contracts and workers in economically dependent situations. however, the single open-ended contract proposed by the commission does not support the principle of equal treatment and, in our opinion, promotes discrimination in the workplace and is not in line with the directive on equal treatment in the workplace. it is stated in the treaty and in the charter of fundamental rights that the european institutions have to respect and promote the rights recognised in the charter. therefore, i call on the commission to take into consideration these aspects, and i call on the members of the european parliament to support the amendments tabled by the s&d group. please, commissioner, take into account what i have said about the single open-ended contract with regard to the rate of youth unemployment.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate the reporter. now more than ever, we need a competitive and flexible european education and training system. that is why i believe that investment in education, research and innovation must be significantly increased, taking into account the possibility of directing investment from the structural funds towards this area, in order to create the conditions for smart and sustainable economic growth. vocational education and training makes an important contribution to the acquisition of skills and competences adapted to the requirements of the labour market and, for this reason, i believe that this system should be encouraged to become more attractive and capable of responding to current economic realities. moreover, in addition to supporting smes, the engine of the economy, i believe that entrepreneurship and skills should be actively promoted throughout the entire educational path. the liberal group has always supported the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises and believes that a much closer link should be established between business and education. last but not least, i would like to underline the key role that the member states have in the effective implementation of all european requirements and recommendations relating to education, research, innovation and employment. governments need to do much more to ensure future growth and, by implication, job creation.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i should also congratulate the rapporteur, ms bastos, on this excellent report and the excellent discussion which it helped to kick off. much of the discussion, and most of those who contributed, stressed the importance of education and training as a key element of employment policies. i fully agree with this, but i would like to avoid reducing employment policy to just education and training, which is the key component of the supply side of the employment policy, and a key component that can help investment in human resources. we should not forget that there is also a demand side on which we have to work, and there are labour market institutions where we have to work on better functioning and greater improvement and development within the member states, but especially at european level. another important theme has been, and continues to be, the concept of flexicurity and, especially, how we should judge flexibility within the labour market. again, what i would like to highlight is that flexicurity has four components: not only the flexible arrangement, but also, for example, lifelong learning, which was referred to in a very positive manner in the discussion. we will actually revisit the concept of flexicurity in a consultation conference on 14 november, especially on the understanding that because of our experience of the crisis, we need to take a fresh look at this concept, or its four components, and the capacity of flexicurity to contribute to job creation in the coming period. i believe this conference, with the involvement of the social partners, will help us in going forward, and pave the way for our package of employment policy initiatives next spring. flexicurity will be the backbone of this package, but within the same package we will also put forward a ‘green jobs’ initiative, as president barroso also announced in his letter to the president of the european parliament. but, as the president highlighted in his state of the union message, the most burning issue in the whole area of employment policy is the question of youth in the european union. this is not simply because the average youth unemployment rate in the eu is very high – 21% – but also because this average covers up huge differences within the eu. especially in the southern european countries, but also in the baltic states, ireland and slovakia, the youth unemployment rate is unacceptably high. we have some good experience. the better-performing countries should not be overlooked; we should appreciate that some member states manage to maintain youth unemployment at a relatively low level, and we should learn from their experience. that is why we have been advocating the ‘youth guarantee’ that austria used, for example. we are putting forward new proposals for apprenticeships and traineeships. as ms berès pointed out, we are preparing to give a boost to the eures network, which is a very important and effective tool at eu level. in fact eures is the most frequently visited website of the european commission, and helps a huge number of people to find appropriate vacancies. we also have to work on quality. i fully agree with those who said that it is not only the quantity of the jobs which is important, although of course this is the key question now. but without ensuring that, for example, in the case of traineeships, the quality improves, i do not think that we can be satisfied. that is why i am also preparing an important initiative in the context of the employment package in this area. in the long run there will be a different balance, a different emphasis on other issues and other challenges. for example, the question of active ageing will be very relevant, with a strong employment dimension. i believe that next year, in the context of the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations, we will have opportunities not just to discuss this but also to look for concrete proposals and solutions. i am grateful to those, like ms berès and ms morin-chartier, who pointed to the capacity of the european social fund and its importance in supporting employment policies in the member states. this can support our skills agenda by improving and modernising education and training, including vocational training and lifelong learning, providing targeted support for specific groups where the employment rate is relatively low and the challenges are the greatest for job creation, such as young people, older workers, people with disabilities, women coming back to the labour market after childbirth, and ethnic minorities, where we have new commitments, for example in the form of the roma inclusion strategies. we must not only talk the talk; we also have to walk the walk, and the esf will have to help in that. the esf can support tailor-made policies (there was a question about greece). in the context of the crisis we have demonstrated that there is flexibility, adaptation and a reaction to the changing circumstances – just like in the case of ireland, where the positive experience was cited by mr de rossa. indeed, the jobs initiative, however small, points in the right direction and can be supported by the esf, and this can be a model for other countries as well. this is why i am also working closely with the task force and its head, mr reichenbach, to ensure that, within the room for manoeuvre that exists in greece (and hopefully from tomorrow there will be more), we can do more for jobs there too.finally, one very important point about the social dialogue. i believe it should not and cannot be doubted. the social dialogue is an essential pillar not just of the european social model but also of our economic model. it is an economic asset, and it is no coincidence that those countries that performed best in the last few years from the point of view of economic growth and job creation, protecting jobs but also improving quality, are the countries where the social dialogue is the strongest and best institutionalised. i think we have to rely more on the cooperation of the social partners in all different ways, from legislation to skills planning and adaptation. of course the crisis, and especially financial stabilisation, is always a test, a difficult period for social dialogue. but the commitment of the commission to developing the social dialogue further and boosting its quality at european level, as the president stated in the state of the union message, should not be a matter of any doubt.
in writing. the new 'agenda for new skills and jobs' is an important step towards achieving the eu's europe 2020 targets. member states are responsible for achieving these objectives and must therefore respond effectively to the challenges of the present day. i believe that substantial investment is needed in education as well as in research and development. the necessary incentives must also be provided to help citizens update their skills and adapt to new labour market requirements. moreover, measures must be taken to reduce school drop-out rates and member states must provide pupils with alternative training and apprenticeships. the integration of young people into the labour market must be supported from the time of their studies and stronger efforts are needed to recognise the diplomas and professional qualifications of citizens, both within the eu and in third countries. last but not least, i believe we need measures to ensure favourable conditions for job creation in the labour market, in particular by reducing administrative burdens and labour-related taxes, in order to facilitate economic recovery and protect eu competitiveness.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what are you doing? the debate on the possible amendment of the maternity directive is, of course, a balancing act between european law, national traditions, cultural values, economic realities, social trends and finally the demographic challenges, which were also mentioned by mrs estrela. so it is no wonder that the search is not easy. it requires mutual respect as a condition of the agreement. the european commission is right in its proposal, the european parliament is right, and the council is right in its arguments, which i would like to return to in this speech. it may seem that even though both sides have the same goal in mind, they are looking in different directions. the question we asked ourselves when the polish presidency began was precisely the question of this common horizon and this common goal - whether we will be able to find this common horizon and go in the same direction. we want parental-friendly legislation that promotes work-life balance, enhances safety and security, and encourages and enables parents who are willing and able to invest in their careers to do so without having to worry about the quality of their childcare. i think we agree on the objective of our action, and the dispute is about the choice of means. we're actually discussing the path to the goal, not the goal that seems to be shared. so this is a dispute over arguments. the question is: is it possible to reach agreement, and if not now, what can we do to achieve this common goal and vision? i would like to thank the members of the european parliament for their support. when we started the polish presidency, we knew that the negotiations on the maternity directive were at a standstill. the european parliament, on the commission's proposal, responded with a number of amendments, and the council did not adopt a common position. she didn't take it until today. moreover, many member states have questioned the possibility of further work. when i talk about this, i wonder if it is really such a severe diagnosis and if we can say that the work that we all did, that the polish presidency also did and that we will continue to do, was wasted. for many reasons, i hope not. i think that, paradoxically, the mechanism of european regulation, which gives the european institutions powers and defines their relations with each other, has worked. paradoxically, the impasse in which we find ourselves and the obstacles we are trying to overcome gives us time to carry out further analyses, taking into account the dynamic situation in europe and to choose the best solution taking these conditions into account. perhaps without this mechanism, hasty decisions would have the opposite effect. we bought time. how do we use it? time to make the best possible decision, tailored to the times, because that's what we have to remember. between us, the participants of this european - sorry, i meant to say dispute - dialogue perhaps and - i wish it were - there will be no winners or losers. i would therefore like to thank first of all commissioner viviane reding, rapporteur estreli and the ministers responsible for the maternity directive in the council for the inspiration, the motivation, the diagnosis and the analysis which have been and are the basis of the presidency's actions. we've had dozens of conversations, meetings, just to weigh all the ratios together and not make the wrong decisions. so i thank all those who have supported and are supporting the polish presidency. last week, commissioner reding and i met in krakow with the ministers responsible for the maternity directive. we invited the ministers a few days before today's sitting of parliament and before our debate because we wanted to hear their views again, to ask them to present their arguments and to consider what the future of possible amendments to the directive would be. i'll come to the conclusions of this meeting in a moment. i would now like to thank you again for the questions from the european parliament. we handed them over to the ministers responsible for this directive at the informal meeting in krakow and before. the presidency believes that these questions are the best proof of how much you care about the future of europe. ladies and gentlemen of the house! the directive is now almost 20 years old and has its historical merits. on the basis of that directive or taking into account its provisions, member states have introduced legislation which aims to protect working mothers. the polish presidency will continue to prioritise addressing demographic challenges, including promoting work-life balance solutions. so we didn't assume that there was nothing that could be done about the parental rights debate. during this informal ministerial meeting last friday, we discussed the issue of maternity leave in the broadest possible context. it seems that a correct diagnosis of the legal, historical and cultural context can - and i have no doubt about this - point the way to possible solutions, how to achieve equal participation in the labour market, how to help reconcile work and life outside work. i would like to share with you - and this seems to me particularly important - the specific questions and concerns raised directly by the ministers of the member states. is maternity leave and the amount of benefit during maternity leave legally guaranteed? can this be considered separately from the length of other parental leave, separately from the amount of other childcare benefits? how does the system of care for young children work, which has a clear impact on work-life balance? will the pursuit of a 100% pay benefit, as proposed by parliament, be more effective than a proportionately lower but longer-term benefit, not just for maternity leave? another very important question is whether, in the face of the increasing trend towards co-parental care for young children and, consequently, the legal arrangements already in place in many countries for the use of leave entitlements by both parents, changes to the extension of maternity leave will make it more difficult for those countries to achieve their objectives. these are, of course, only selected topics of the discussion that the ministers had during our meeting last friday. this is also indirect evidence of the richness of the map of solutions already in place in the european union. i should like to thank my fellow ministers very much for agreeing to this debate at the request of the presidency and for presenting the arguments for their criticism of the european parliament's position. ladies and gentlemen! the absence of a common position of the council is not the result of laziness, neglect or a whim of the council. nor is it - and i would stress this - the sole or primary consequence of an assessment of the financial implications for many member states of the adoption of amendments to the directive, particularly in the form proposed by the european parliament. member states - as we know very well - allocate huge sums of money in their budgets to childbirth and childcare. importantly, many member states consider that parliament's amendments ignore a significant part of the solutions already in place and compliant with the directive. ladies and gentlemen of the house, the directive was designed to protect, and i quote, 'pregnant workers who have recently given birth and workers who are breastfeeding'. it was intended to define the minimum of that protection. among the amendments tabled by the european parliament, there are many which have raised doubts in some member states, such as those which refer to the rules for breaks for feeding, but not only that, but also the number and duration of breaks. is it not difficult to understand that in this situation, with such far-reaching and detailed amendments, doubts have arisen on the part of many member states, but also on the part of the european commission, as to the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality? ladies and gentlemen! we now have legislation in the european union regulating minimum european standards for maternity leave. i am pleased to hear your views on behalf of the presidency today, because of this question which was put by parliament, because of the opportunity to hear the views of the ministers at our meeting last week, which was organised by the presidency, and because of the opportunity to present these comments by the individual member states. i know that many of these will be critical, bitter opinions, but we're here to talk about them. i also thank you very much for the constructive nature of the questions which were put to the polish presidency. questions in which you have indicated your willingness to compromise. in the presidency's assessment, such an agreement will be possible if it takes account of the differences between the solutions in place in the member states, the financial and social costs of these changes and the principle of subsidiarity. but let us also be clear: in the face of the challenges of the crisis, and not only that, but also in the face of the solutions already in force in the member states, the presidency considers that the council cannot accept 20 weeks of full paid maternity leave. during the council discussions, some member states pointed out that their national legislation actually includes provisions on several issues raised by the european parliament, such as breastfeeding breaks, special working conditions for parents of disabled children, additional maternity leave. however, in line with the general view of the council, the member states should be left to decide on the details of these matters, too, and it should be stressed that the trend of these changes, the direction of which i have mentioned in the introduction, is common to the european commission, the european parliament, the member states and the council. how can we best serve the interests of women in the labour market? are longer minimum maternity leave and benefits equal to earnings the answer to the challenges of the modern market? i would like to stress once again that many member states are moving in this direction, towards such solutions. such solutions have been introduced in poland. but critics point to the disparity in the income of working mothers and ask: why fund maternity leave for the top earners at the expense of all taxpayers? is it not better to have this in the existing directive setting a minimum amount of benefit equal to sickness benefit and leaving it to the member states to set the upper limit of this benefit? you also ask whether the council will include paternity leave in the revised maternity leave directive? as you know, the presidency does not have the mandate to present the council's position, because no such common position has been adopted, but on the basis of the discussions held, i would like to inform you on behalf of the presidency that in our view the member states will not support such a solution. it's not because they don't appreciate the importance of paternity leave in social policy. on the contrary, many member states have already introduced such a solution and i can say again that poland is among them. however, there is a consensus among member states and the council that the maternity and occupational safety and health directives should not be extended to paternity leave. again, we're not discussing the direction of change, we're not discussing whether paternity leave is an institution that should be evolving. the council is suggesting a direction we might take. ladies and gentlemen of the house, i realize that my time is up, but i want to talk about these decisions in an open way. it seems to be about decisions so important to the citizens of the european union that there is no room for games and pretending to work. that is why the polish presidency has attached great importance to the dossier we are discussing today since the beginning of our work. let me make a few more remarks, madam president, which are a kind of summary of my statement, emphasising the lack of a formal mandate from the council but informing about the state of the discussion in the council on the subject. i cannot declare to parliament that an agreement will be reached in the council during the polish presidency. whether we can continue this work will depend to a large extent on your assessment of the arguments put forward by the member states. however, on behalf of the presidency, i would like to thank the european commission, the european parliament and the council in parliament for continuing the process of finding the best solutions and to declare that further work will be carried out in the preparatory bodies, especially if there are signs that the council and parliament can discuss a realistic compromise at a later stage. on behalf of the polish presidency, i can assure you that if the course of today's debate gives grounds for believing that parliament is ready to negotiate, and therefore - and i speak openly about this - also to change parliament's current position, i will be happy to convey such good news to the council without delay. if it were possible to propose further realistic steps towards an agreement during the polish presidency, this would also be a very promising outlook for the future work of the trio of presidencies. that is why we attach such importance to this debate today, and that is why i thank you again for the opportunity to participate in it. the polish presidency is approaching this dossier with the utmost care and awareness of its importance. we're counting on your support. i hope that today's debate will bring us closer to an agreement, and if not, at least that our dialogue and clash of arguments will not be in vain, that the ongoing exchange of views will encourage the introduction of further solutions that serve well parents and their children, and that sooner or later we will find the best solution for these issues in this complex world as well.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to thank the polish presidency for the way it has tried to approach this new directive - i could say us because it has been much improved by the amendments tabled in parliament. you said, minister, that the three institutions have a common goal, but they look in different directions. i can tell you with all sincerity that as far as the european parliament is concerned, it looks to the citizens, and i know that the polish presidency is pro-european and, yes, we need more europe, but let us not forget that europe belongs to the citizens, not to the government. i would therefore like to say that this directive, the position we have adopted in parliament, is a solid one because it is nothing but a new instrument to ensure that we can reconcile family and working life and also use it to solve the economic crisis we are in. i do not understand what you mean when you say that parliament has overlooked existing solutions. what does our position mean? a maternity leave that has done nothing but take into account the recommendations of the world health organization and a new vision: that motherhood should not be penalized. mr president, i am surprised that the european commission is not here, but i hope that together, in the co-decision procedure, we will be able to find a solution so that we can move forward with this important matter, especially at this time. and the "bird clause" could be a solution.
i welcome this debate and consider it a first step towards an attempt to unlock the situation, an unlocking which is absolutely necessary in the present context. i think this debate raises at least three kinds of questions: are we still able to see beyond the crisis? are we still able to see the future of europe through the interests of european citizens and not through an immediate reality called the economic crisis? if so, then we must try to change the paradigm of discourse. it's not about women's interests, it's not about men's interests, and it's not even about children's interests. it is in the interest of european societies to survive and be viable. that's what this is about. if we want to remain in a formula of nations, in a formula in which we preserve our multiculturalism and identities, we will have to stimulate our own birth policies. i think we have to think about european cohesion in completely different terms. not in terms of financial resources, but necessarily in terms of human resources. does europe still need a family? if he needs a family, then he should encourage the mother and father to be there for this child. education and social cohesion are not a matter of providing services, which society can provide better or worse. if we think in terms of these three parameters, which are common to the european conscience and philosophy, then we have only one solution: to say yes to this directive, not to try to think in a mercantilist vision, which is alien to the european spirit and conception and, in my view, absolutely dangerous for the future of europe.
it is necessary for the european parliament and the council to reach a consensus on the unblocking of this legislative act. in the current context, a balance is needed between the need for employment among women and the financial impact of maternity leave. at the same time, various possibilities must be provided to avoid the phenomenon of de-professionalisation resulting from absence from the workplace. i would point out that the possibility of amending the period of maternity leave was highlighted by the european parliament in amendments nos 4 and 42 to the proposal for a directive. they aim both at protecting the health and development of the child and at the well-being of the mother as an active part of the workforce. in the run-up to the 75% female employment target, providing these options to mothers is a particularly useful tool. at the same time, the two amendments leave it to families to establish a work-life balance. the romanian government has recently been forced to amend legislation in this area in order to reduce budgetary expenditure and combat the effects of the economic crisis. women in romania thus have two options: they can choose between reintegration into the workforce in the first year after birth, with a state bonus, or two years of parental leave. moreover, in accordance with the commitments made to the international monetary fund, romania is obliged to reduce the number of such grants from 54 to 9 by means of the new social assistance law. it will also prevent fraud against welfare funds.
the european union institutions should be aware of the importance of ensuring a minimum level of protection for mothers, in particular by guaranteeing leave taken immediately after birth. the proposal for a directive also deals with the protection of breastfeeding mothers at work, the prohibition on dismissing a woman after six months of maternity leave, rules on adoption, overtime work and night work. i ask the european council not to ignore, under the pretext of the current economic and financial crisis, the problems of applying european legislation in this field, given the need for a birth policy that is adapted to the realities of families in europe.
i believe that membership of the european single market implies harmonization practices in several areas, including taxation. in order to ensure the completion and smooth functioning of the internal market, it is necessary for the union to provide for neutral taxation rules for groups of companies in different member states. i believe that tax provisions should not impede the activity of undertakings by restrictions, disadvantages or distortions. they would make it more difficult for undertakings to adapt to the requirements of the internal market and to strengthen their competitive position at international level. i consider it necessary to eliminate double taxation of income paid to parent companies by subsidiaries. payments of interest and royalties between two affiliated companies must be exempt from taxes imposed by the source state. i would point out that in romania these dividends are not taxable.
we are discussing the 2012 budget at the same time as the european council in brussels is discussing national budgetary issues. it seems paradoxical to approve the union budget at the same time as budget support schemes. i think it's absolutely necessary that we do this. we talk about the crisis and jobs, the need for investment. the union budget preserves and creates jobs. the development of investment, of the economy, helps to reduce the deficit. the union budget is 95% investment budget. we are discussing the need for european networks: transport, energy, communication. the union budget invests in this area. we say that the union is the strongest economy in the world and that it is enough to complete the common market, especially the services market, to maintain this position. the union budget shall contribute to this. we have set ourselves the following targets in the eu 2020 strategy: education, employment, youth. the union budget helps us to meet them. at the same time, it is said that there are member states that contribute more and others that contribute less, and the distribution of the budget is not in the same proportion. but we have not yet seen a study that shows the real benefits of the eu budget. i would like to know how much of a euro invested in one member state stays in that member state and how much is transferred to other member states. i would like to know what the impact of this budget is on labour mobility, perhaps the commission will draw up a study of this kind. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that one euro invested in one region of the european union has an impact on all the other regions. the union's budget ensures the future of the european union and, whatever the situation we are in today, our future depends on the future of the european union. in conclusion, i think we should put populism aside and vote on the budget as proposed.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs balzani on her efforts in the negotiations and i think the result is unexpectedly good. i know that for many colleagues it may be difficult to explain why we are proposing a budget increase at the level of the union at this time of crisis. the answer is simple: to offset budget cuts in the member states and help to revive the european economy. the proposed budget increases are not limited, target key union policies and address citizens directly. and if we look at the administrative expenditure of the eu institutions, both the commission, the council and the parliament, we see that it is actually budget cuts in real terms, all of which are well below the rate of inflation. i hope that the next stage, the conciliation phase, will be just as productive and that the council will understand that what the european parliament is proposing is first and foremost in the interests of the eu citizens.
i voted for the report by my colleague mr bastos because it deals with a subject which is central to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. i consider the adoption of this text all the more timely, since we voted for the ungureanu report yesterday. the mobility of workers is an important factor for the single market and for the success of the agenda for new skills and jobs. it is also the best solution for highly skilled jobs. for example, over 8,000 doctors have left romania alone in the last four years, with negative effects for us, but meeting the needs of other european countries. i welcome the emphasis on simplifying procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications. i stress the need to reduce the administrative, bureaucratic and fiscal burdens imposed on smes. excessive taxation affects their ability to operate, create new jobs and contribute to economic recovery.
in writing. − we voted for a 2012 budget that promotes a sustainable european economy and implements the europe 2020 strategy. i voted for block 1 of amendments which concern the financing of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, the completion of the e-ten network, the sesar joint undertaking, energy projects dedicated to the economic recovery of the eu, etc. i therefore voted for additional funds to be allocated to the development of smart energy networks, to better integrate the eu energy market and to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy. in my amendments i asked the commission to continue the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs with an appropriate level of funding in 2012 and to ensure broadband access for all european citizens by 2013. i voted for block 2 of amendments which also includes the preparatory action i proposed on the definition of the governance model for the danube region and the erasmus preparatory action for local and regional elected representatives. i voted for block 3 of amendments which provides for the financing of rural development programmes, support programmes for wine growers and includes amendments nos 73 and 91, which provide for additional funds for programmes for the supply of fruit and milk in schools.
in writing. − the european parliament has shown that it wants a budget for next year focused on growth, job creation, innovation and research. at the same time, the european legislator is showing that it wants to continue to be an exporter of democracy to its neighbourhood. the ep's 2012 budget proposal is €133 billion, 5.2% more than this year. we're now entering a 21-day conciliation period and if everything goes as we've agreed, we could have a final vote on the budget in december. the philosophy behind the union budget is to increase the funding available for those areas that deliver growth - research and development, cohesion and structural funds are the categories of expenditure that have seen the biggest increases. parliament insists on increasing the budgets allocated to competitiveness, growth and employment. all areas of budgetary growth are 'responsible' for fuelling the engines of the european economy. parliament has been given a voice on the union's budget by the treaty of lisbon and it is only natural that it should use it. we have a say in european finances and we hope that the views expressed will be heard in the tripartite discussions with the commission and the council.
in writing. − in this period of crisis and low economic growth, and with national budgets being marked by austerity, i believe that the european budget must be one of economic recovery. it should be borne in mind that the european budget has real added value in some sectors, which is why these budget lines should be used as compensation for the reduction of public expenditure at national level. the eu has also set itself ambitious targets for 2020. section 1a is particularly important for achieving these objectives and for returning to growth. unfortunately, the council did not have a reasonable approach, making significant cuts in the budget lines of this section so important for the eu 2020 strategy. i therefore fully support the return to the commission's proposals and the increase in the allocation, especially for innovation and research (icp and fp7), lifelong vocational training and the erasmus mundus programme. last but not least, i am pleased that we have managed to secure funding for the organisation of the european youth olympic festival in brasov for 2013, an event modelled on similar events funded in other eu countries, which will benefit romanian sport and youth.
in writing. − to mobilise the potential of eu economies for economic recovery from the crisis, measures are needed to stimulate short-term recovery, strengthen sustainable economic growth, promote financial market stability and strengthen economic governance structures. projects targeting vulnerable groups, in particular young people, and addressing their access to the labour market and education should also be supported as one of the responses to the high rate of youth unemployment and social tensions in a growing number of countries. a global financial transaction tax to fund poverty eradication is also needed. as regards eu development policy, i would like to draw attention to the fact that without new sources of funding, member states will not be able to meet their 2015 commitments on the millennium development goals. in this context, i find unacceptable the council's proposal to reduce the appropriations for the development cooperation instrument by eur 70 million and the attempt to reallocate existing development funds to tackle new political challenges - climate change, the 'arab spring' - which must be financed from additional resources.
in writing. − the budget of the european union is the financial instrument which sets and authorises for each year the total amount of revenue and expenditure estimated to be necessary for the whole of the european community. 2012 will be a particularly important year as the impact of the current crisis has led to reduced public investment in some of the key areas of the european economy and member states have made adjustments to their national budgets to this effect. the eu budget is complementary to national budgets and is particularly important for promoting growth and job creation. i believe that the community budget should not be limited and restricted, but on the contrary, in certain key areas it should be strengthened. the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth must be at the heart of the 2012 budget strategy and with a strong budget for this year we will help europe emerge stronger from the crisis.
in writing. − i voted for amendment 26 to the report on the draft general budget of the union for the financial year 2012. i therefore voted for a reduction in business class travel for members of the european parliament, because we too must cut back at this difficult time. moreover, i believe that, (at least) for journeys of less than four hours, the european parliament should not pay for business class tickets. you can also read and work in the 'economy' class where, in addition, you sit with the people you represent and talk to them. i travel in economy class, so there's no difference between how i voted and what i'm doing. i also voted for amendment no 27, which calls for no indexation of the allowances of members of the european parliament. i believe we must stand in solidarity with the european citizens in this time of financial crisis. these measures are neither populist nor communist, but common sense and solidarity with those we represent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2012, as amended by the council. i did not vote for amendments nos 43 and 44 because i believe that the bureau's decision to cut the budget lines for translation and interpretation jeopardises the principle of multilingualism applied in parliament and in dialogues with other institutions. all union citizens should have access to all union documents in all official languages and the right of members to express themselves in their mother tongue in plenary sessions, committees, coordination meetings and trilogues should be guaranteed. i am in favour of promoting innovation, restructuring and new working methods that improve translation services and provide savings, as long as translation services are not cut back. i voted for amendment no 26, which calls on the secretary-general of the ep to submit a report by 31 march to analyse the feasibility of introducing measures to ensure the maximum efficiency of meps' travel with a view to drawing up recommendations for potential budgetary savings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-norway satellite navigation cooperation agreement as the agreement contributes to the implementation of the eu's space policy. norway is the closest non-eu partner in the european gnss galileo and egnos systems and has contributed politically, technically and financially to all phases of the galileo programme as a member of the european space agency. norway will host two major land-based facilities that will contribute to the smooth functioning of the gnss system. in this context, norway commits itself politically to adhere to the future union policy on the protection of the european gnss systems. the agreement sets out the general principles of cooperation and norway's rights and obligations in relevant areas such as security. norway intends to adopt and implement measures in the territories under its jurisdiction to ensure a degree of security and safety equivalent to that provided by the measures applicable to gnss in the eu. the agreement provides for cooperation in the provision of satellite navigation services in the territories of the parties and the use of all galileo and egnos services, including the public regulated service (prs), subject to the fulfilment of the conditions governing their use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr reul because i consider the galileo programme to be one of the achievements of european integration. within the efforts and initiatives of the eu 2020 strategy, the development of gps and related applications plays a crucial role in strengthening innovation at european level. the agreement is the culmination of 12 years of discussions between the european and american sides, which have led to a consensus on the civilian and military use of such systems. respect for the principle of proportionality is essential in this case. thus, the necessary data must be provided to the population, while ensuring the adequate protection of military objectives. the geographical coverage of these systems is also important, as is the compatibility of different networks and reception modes. with all these elements harmonised, the balance between publicly available and confidential information will be clearer.
in writing. − this agreement is welcomed as it provides the framework for cooperation in the promotion, provision and use of gps and galileo civil navigation and timing signals and services. i am pleased that romania will also become a party to this agreement by concluding a protocol, in accordance with article 6 (2) of the act concerning the conditions of accession of romania. as a prospect of the future, i think it would be useful for the parties to this agreement to meet once or twice a year in a joint council to discuss policy matters as well as future planning systems. it would also be useful to set up a gps-galileo secretariat to exchange interface data and to ensure day-to-day coordination and the establishment of liaison officers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-us agreement on the promotion, supply and use of galileo and gps satellite navigation systems and related applications. the agreement provides the framework for cooperation between the parties on the promotion, provision and use of gps and galileo civil navigation and timing signals and services, value-added services, complementary devices and global navigation and timing equipment. the us operates the global positioning system (gps), a dual-use system that provides accurate time, navigation services and positioning signals for civilian and military purposes. the us provides civilian gps free of charge to direct users and intends to continue to provide this service under the same conditions in the future. the eu is developing and planning the operation of galileo, a global civil satellite navigation, timing and positioning system that is radio frequency compatible with gps and interoperable with civil gps services at the user level. the civil gps and galileo services could increase the accuracy and accessibility of navigation signals for civil users worldwide. we call on the commission and the council to increase the budget for research related to gnss services and applications so that galileo can be used at its projected capacity once completed.
in writing. − the average eu corporate tax rate fell from 44% in 1980 to 35% in 1995 and finally to 23.2% in 2010. however, there are different tax regimes and double taxation of companies is addressed through bilateral agreements and community legislation. i support the proposal for a common european approach to halt and reverse the trend towards lower corporation tax rates. i also believe that stronger anti-abuse provisions and measures to limit the erosion of the tax base by eu corporations are needed.
in writing. − due to tax competition between eu member states, the average level of corporate taxation in the eu has fallen from 44% in 1980 to 23.2% in 2010. at the same time, some economic operators have increased access to capital and profit transfers, while others are deprived of this possibility. it is thus difficult to promote a socially and economically sustainable and integrated society. individuals and economic operators operating in the european union benefit from tax regimes that vary from one member state to another, and double taxation of companies is addressed through bilateral agreements and community legislation. i believe that we need a common european approach and at the same time we must prevent this tendency to reduce corporate tax rates too much. in addition, additional measures are necessary to address double taxation, to prevent misunderstandings or attempted fraud by member states. a thorough review of the community directives on the common tax system is therefore now required.
in writing. − the report on the proposal for a regulation on the financial rules applicable to the annual budget of the union underlines the importance of maintaining and strengthening the key elements of financial reform: the role of financial actors and internal auditors, the integration of controls into operational services, the establishment of the budget for activities, the modernisation of the principles relating to grants. i voted for amendment no 273, which states that financial operations benefiting from a financial instrument of the union may not result in tax evasion. in practice, financial operators managing the financial instruments concerned will be liable alongside the authors for the financial losses resulting from the breach of this provision. i voted for amendment no 302, which lays down the conditions to be met by the union's financial instruments, and for amendment no 304, which requires the commission to submit annual reports to the budgetary authority on the activities supported by the financial instruments, the financial institutions involved in their implementation, the performance of the financial instruments, including reinvestments made, income and repayments, the multiplier effect achieved and the value of the holdings. i voted for amendment no 278, which calls on the commission to publish in the annual report the final beneficiaries of financial instruments and the funding received by them, and for amendment no 305, which calls on the commission to present precise, coherent and transparent procedural rules for audits.
in writing. − recent economic and labour market developments, together with future challenges such as demographic change and the transition to a sustainable economy, require improvements in employment, education and work organisation strategies, with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the european union, improving working and living conditions and creating new jobs, thus promoting smart growth combining employment, social protection and sustainable production and lifestyles. among the challenges to be addressed as a matter of priority are the lack and inadequacy of skills that many workers currently have, and the inferior position of some european countries in relation to the international situation in terms of educational levels. i also highlight the economic arguments in favour of skills development, labour market integration, social inclusion, effective tackling of discrimination and better use of skills by all workers. and i cannot help but point out that work-life balance, education and the enhancement of human capital also have positive non-economic effects on individuals.
in writing. - the economic, financial and social crisis led to the loss of over 5 million jobs in the three years since it began. europe is faced with a reality that exposes the weaknesses of its social model. there are over 23 million unemployed across the union, representing 10% of the active population. a worrying number, putting enormous pressure on social protection systems in europe. at the same time, we are experiencing the paradox of a shortage of skilled workers for high-skilled jobs. europe is at a crossroads. the entry into economic surplus, into growth, is imperative, the path to normality must be found again. europe needs to be in a position to help its citizens to upgrade their skills, to ensure a better link between education, training and work, to develop the right mix of skills and to better anticipate the skills that will be sought in the future, so as to ensure a balance between demand and supply on the labour market. we should be encouraging work, not welfare. the agenda for new skills and jobs proposed by the ec, which parliament will also be voting on, is welcome.
in writing. − the economic crisis has left nearly 6 million european citizens without jobs, bringing the number of unemployed to 23 million, and projections indicate that a further 2.5 million jobs will disappear by 2020 as a consequence of the crisis. despite this availability, eu employers face difficulties in recruiting staff for highly qualified positions. it is estimated that in three years there will be a shortage of half a million jobs in it and a shortage of one million in health. the causes are: failure to identify labour market requirements in time, failure to adapt the education system, school dropout and gender imbalance in science and information technology, with 60% of college graduates being women. i believe that joint and effective measures are needed to use the massive potential of the workforce to meet the requirements of the european labour market, and this resolution is a useful stimulus in this respect.
in writing. - there is only one point of view on which i wish to dwell: smes and their importance for this subject. 85% of jobs in the eu are provided by smes. smes produce 58% of the value added created in the eu. it is therefore vital to support the promotion of schemes to encourage smes to create new jobs, whether in areas such as new technologies, research and innovation or the creative industries. reducing bureaucracy to a minimum and improving their access to finance are issues that the commission needs to address and ensure that they are also achieved at member state level. a correlation of the measures to be taken is needed so that the creation of new companies and the employment of labour is possible to meet the employment objectives.
in writing. − the increasing competitiveness of the european union on the world stage requires significant changes in the labour market, all the more so as demographic changes affect the available labour resources. considers it worrying that, in a time of economic crisis, employers are having difficulties in finding highly qualified labour. or, it is precisely this qualification that can add value to the european economy. the solutions to achieving our labour market objectives are many: from better anticipation of skills needs, to a closer link between universities and the business environment; from valuing non-formal education, to encouraging cross-border mobility for as many citizens as possible and the mutual recognition of diplomas; from creating more green jobs, to increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and also inducing a culture of lifelong learning. unfortunately, it is in the fields of education and training that spending has been massively cut in a number of eu countries, amid the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − the agenda for new skills and jobs is one of the seven flagship initiatives to boost growth and jobs contained in the eu 2020 strategy. achieving sustainable growth has to be based on an inclusive labour market to maximise the full potential of europe’s labour force, to increase employment rates and to improve job quality, equal opportunities and labour and social protection. i strongly support the negotiated labour market reforms; negotiated flexicurity combined with strong social protection systems; strengthening pension systems; investments in public education systems; respect for labour and social rights in the european legislation; labour law to cover all types of workers and labour contracts with rights. we should do more to guarantee that mobile and migrant workers in europe enjoy equal treatment with residents, in the workplace and beyond. the gender gaps are a major obstacle to the functioning of eu labour market. i believe that more needs to be done to tackle discrimination against women, young people, elderly workers and people with disabilities, minorities, with regard to access to employment, pay gaps, career progression, training, or working conditions. moreover, the commission should put in place a set of rules and policies to create a framework for socially decent restructurings.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the agenda for new skills and jobs because the overcoming of the current crisis depends on securing jobs in the member states. the competitiveness of the union depends on ensuring the availability of a skilled workforce, promoting demand for labour and job creation, improving the functioning of the labour market, promoting inclusive labour markets and improving the quality of jobs and working conditions. to increase competitiveness and create new jobs, the union needs to invest in the development and modernisation of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, agriculture, research and education. the new eu industrial policy needs to promote education in technical fields. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the necessary information is available to the public. i voted for amendment no 1, which calls on the commission to take into account that in a labour market where smes predominate and workers are often underrepresented at company level, the decentralisation of collective bargaining could lead to deterioration of working conditions.
a month ago, the european parliament drew attention to the plight of refugees on the tunisian-libyan border. it was stressed at that time that the union's efforts to relocate these persons were insufficient. more could have been done if the emergency mechanism supported by the european parliament had been operational. unfortunately, as we know, the procedure for adopting the report on the european refugee fund is stalled. the council has not yet responded to the last proposal it put forward in june. whatever the reasons for this delay, they must be overcome. when it comes to measures that affect human lives, bureaucratic hurdles must be removed and a solution quickly identified. i am confident that the members of the council will demonstrate the political will necessary to move towards a common programme on the relocation of refugees.
studies by stoa - the european parliament's committee for the evaluation of scientific and technological options - show that there is insufficient coordination and cooperation in the field of research and innovation in the field of medicines and an insufficient approach to health in european research programmes. these studies recommend: developing a portal to provide access to all documents and legislation on the use of antibiotics applicable in the member states; developing a database of all national and european initiatives on antimicrobial resistance, both in the policy field and in the field of specific research projects; encouraging prescription-only policies in all member states; directing research funds both towards the reduction of antimicrobial resistance and towards the discovery of new medicines; supporting rapid diagnostic methods; developing a european voluntary accreditation scheme to incorporate european and international standards of hygiene and health. i ask the commission and the council to take account of these recommendations.
i welcome mrs angelilli's initiative to bring this matter back into the debate. i have noticed my colleague's constant concern for sensitive issues concerning children, such as this one, and i want to congratulate her on that. i wanted to speak to this debate because, unfortunately, my country is in the recent eu kids online study in the high risk group. the study was carried out with the support of the european commission and concerns the time children spend on the internet, unsupervised. by exceeding the european average of 88 minutes a day, romanian children are thus much more exposed to cyber-related abuse. i believe that cooperation between member states should be strengthened, particularly as regards the implementation of the legal framework. to prevent such behaviour, it is important that the police and childcare and education institutions work together. child pornography is one of the most common cybercrimes, alongside personal data theft, online harassment (or cyberbullying) and fraud. citizens could play a preventive role by simply reporting incidents of this kind. for example, in romania, the centre for missing and sexually exploited children focus is very active. founded in 2007, it is involved in raising awareness in society and in preventing this phenomenon. it also runs the hotline for reporting child pornography cases and is co-funded by the european commission. finally, i call on the member states to step up cooperation with third countries to combat this phenomenon at international level.
in 2009, over 6 million young people dropped out of school early. 17.4% of these had only completed primary education. therefore, one of the priority objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10%. access to early childhood education and care for all children is essential for social integration, personal development and employment. the european union aims to ensure a high level of protection for children in the digital space, including their personal data, while supporting their right to access the internet as a beneficial tool for their social and cultural development. the 'safer internet' programme coordinates and supports efforts to empower and protect children on the internet at eu level. different sectors of the information and communications technology industry have been involved in increasing the level of protection for children using mobile phones and social networking services. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to continue the 'safer internet' programme.
the problem of sexual abuse and exploitation of children cannot be separated from the issue of making the internet safer. the possibilities offered by the internet have in most cases brought about positive changes in our society, but this is not the case in this case. the internet is now the main field of child pornography. we must not ignore the fact that children and young people are the most vulnerable. in this respect, young people in the poorest member states, especially in central and eastern europe, are most at risk, as child poverty is most alarming in these countries. given the enormous role of the internet, there can be no doubt that coordinated action by the member states is needed to address the problem.
in writing. – the status of children has been the focus of international attention for a number of years, most notably in the drawing up of the un convention on the rights of the child. children are also increasingly affected by a whole range of eu policies and legislation. the commission has made an effort to define a so-called ‘eu agenda on the rights of the child’. however, its communication focuses mainly on legal dimensions, which – although of major importance in their own right – do not take proper account of the critical importance of appropriate socio-economic policies for children. we may not achieve the target of curbing the level of poverty by helping 20 million persons improve their standard of life by 2020, if we do not have a strategic approach on children and children-related components. we should develop and implement an eu strategy to halve child-poverty by 2020, and break the spiral of poverty in general. we consider necessary to mainstream individual children’s rights in all eu policies, monitoring and evaluating the steps undertaken to end child poverty, identifying and developing priority actions, aiming to enhance data collection and to further develop common indicators at eu level.
in writing. victims of sexual abuse can come from any socio-cultural background, from any member state and from any social level. as such, it is important that we join forces in finding an effective way to deal with the problem of increased crime in relation to child sexual abuse. member states are approaching this issue differently, but with the development of modern means of communication with cross-border effects, i believe we need a common strategy to improve cooperation, not only between authorities in the union, but also between police authorities and internet operators internationally. on the other hand, since sexual abuse of children is often the result of the interaction between the personality of the perpetrator and the social context in which he or she is found, it is important that, in addition to the attention paid to children who are victims of sexual abuse, increased attention is also paid to identifying appropriate measures to reduce the chances of the perpetrators of such abuse re-offending, measures that lead to their rehabilitation.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. the problems caused by recent migration flows from the southern mediterranean have been misinterpreted as internal weaknesses of the schengen area. in reality, they prove first and foremost that the european union has a problem with the external management of migration in general and with the asylum system in particular. i think that once we solve the problems of the refugee management system, the pressures at the internal schengen borders will also disappear, because the secondary movement of asylum seekers will be limited. reform of the qualification for international protection directive is very important, but we must bear in mind that the whole asylum package must be adopted as soon as possible. the element that needs to be fundamentally improved is solidarity between member states in the management of refugees. unfortunately, this solidarity is precisely what the union has lacked in recent times. the right-wing and far-right governments must abandon the populist and xenophobic behaviour they have shown recently, not only towards immigrants but also towards some european citizens. this directive will have no real effect as long as some governments continue to promote nationalistic policies. i believe it is time for the european union to prove that it is capable of reviving the spirit of solidarity, both for the benefit of its own citizens and those who need protection from it.
i would also like to welcome the involvement of the european union in the process of granting international protection under the geneva convention. to this end, it is necessary to develop a harmonised set of criteria for the application of this regime. i would stress that there is a presumption of lack of effective protection where the state or agents of the state are the perpetrators of persecution. it is also essential to establish a causal link between the reasons for race, religion, nationality, political opinion and persecution. as regards social assistance, beneficiaries of this scheme must have access to a minimum set of rights, the same as those granted to nationals of the host state. respect for equality between nationals and third-country nationals must be a priority in order to build a common european asylum procedure by 2012.
member of the commission. − mr president, we have indeed travelled a long way on this. it was in may last year that we started to discuss the renegotiations of the pnr agreement with australia and the usa. considerable efforts and contacts and a good cooperation, including with our australian counterparts, have been taking place during this time. today we have a proposed agreement that you will be voting on tomorrow. i think we can agree that we have worked hard on this. we have an agreement with very high standards which very much reflects the position taken by parliament in its resolution and the mandate given by the council. from the commission side, we consider that this is a further improvement of the 2008 agreement. it has clearer language, such as the definition of terrorism and serious transnational crime, it is a further strengthening of police cooperation, with high standards of data protection and it ensures freedom and safety for international air travel. it also recognises that information sharing is a fundamental component of the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime. in this context, the use of pnr data is an essential tool but it recognises that such information sharing has to be undertaken in full respect of fundamental rights and freedoms. the data are transferred to the australia customs service for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist offences or serious transnational crime. in exceptional cases, pnr data may be processed for the prosecution of the vital interest of any individual, such as risk of death, serious injury or threat to health. the australian customs services will ensure that the relevant analytical information obtained from pnr is available to police and judicial authorities of member states or europol or eurojust as part of eu-australian security cooperation. the data is retained for five and a half years. after three years the data elements which could serve to identify the passenger to whom pnr data relate will be masked out. such depersonalised data will only be accessible to a very limited number of customs services officials. the data will, as the rapporteur said, be transferred to the australian customs service on the basis of the ‘push’ method only. the agreement applies without discrimination between passengers and prohibits all processing of sensitive data. it lays down provisions regulating rights of access, rectification, erasure and redress for any individual concerned. it prohibits decisions with adverse legal effects being taken exclusively on the basis of automatic processing of pnr data. all data processing is subject to oversight by the australian information commissioner, who has effective powers to investigate and monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement. all data processing is logged or documented for the purposes of oversight and auditing by the australian information commission. data may be shared with other government authorities of australia only on a case-by-case basis and only for the purposes of the agreement. onward transfer of data to authorities of third countries is allowed, subject to the same data protection safeguards as those applicable to transfers of data by air carriers to australian customs services under the agreement, only for the purposes set out in the agreement and only on a case-by-case basis. the competent authorities of the member states are also consulted when data concerning an eu citizen have been transferred to a country. the agreement will be reviewed one year after its entry into force. as regards suspension, in general suspension of agreements is regulated, as you know, by article 289 of the treaty. under that procedure, the council takes a decision on suspension on a proposal from the commission, but a parliamentary resolution calling for a suspension signals serious problems with the current agreement and would certainly be a very important element in this respect. i would like to thank the house, and especially the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, for their very important cooperation. i think we can be proud of the result.
the committee on foreign affairs is the rapporteur for the opinion. − as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i recommended to parliament that it give its consent to the signing of the new text of the agreement between the european union and australia on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data by air carriers to the australian customs and border protection service. the renegotiated draft agreement contains safeguards on the transfer and processing of passenger name record data, including: the right of access to and rectification of passenger data, the right of passengers to bring legal proceedings or sanctions for breaches of data security. this proposal will contribute to the effectiveness of measures against terrorism and crossborder organised crime, to international cooperation for the safety of citizens. passenger rights will be better protected with this agreement than without it. thank you to sophia and the pnr team for their work.
first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs. in 't veld, our reporter, on her excellent work. the pnr agreement with australia is largely satisfactory and represents a step forward from previous negotiations of this kind. the positive elements are that the automatic processing of data is prohibited in principle and that administrative and judicial remedies against possible abuses are also ensured. however, some issues remain, and i am referring to the retention period, but also to the transfer of data to third countries. i would also like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that in the present day, when cyberattacks have become increasingly frequent and widespread, we must have a guarantee that pnr data is stored and transferred in the safest possible conditions. future agreements, and in particular those currently under negotiation with the us and canada, must make a qualitative leap and address the shortcomings that persist in the current agreement.
the parliament is currently examining the proposal for a directive on the use of passenger name record data for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crime. following its adoption, the bilateral agreements between the european union and third countries on the passenger name record should be updated accordingly. the duration of the data retention period should be substantially reduced. i would remind you that in the case of the directive on the retention of data by telephone operators for the same purposes, the constitutional courts of romania, germany and the czech republic have considered that these provisions violate the fundamental rights of citizens and have declared the related transposition acts unconstitutional. we demand that: 1. the analysis and transmission of pnr data be used exclusively for the prevention and detection of terrorist offences and serious crime and for the investigation and prosecution of such offences; 2. only data which is indispensable for the achievement of the targets set and collected by air operators on a regular basis should be transmitted by the 'push' method; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's data protection legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's data protection legislation.
i too would like to begin by welcoming the publication of this report 15 years after the institution of the european ombudsman was created. by constantly contacting petitioners, it has adapted to current requirements - i would mention the reduction in the time required to resolve a complaint, as well as the possibility of referral to the ombudsman's office. i believe that this mechanism has improved the transparency of the functioning of the european union. citizens can now challenge existing problems in administration at european level. unfortunately, the bureaucracy has had a negative impact in some situations. i would like to recall here the refusal of the european commission to provide complete information in the context of the ombudsman's administrative procedures. i myself was a shadow reporter on a case like this. the 1049/2001 regulation on access to documents is not always respected by the institutions. this aggravates the democratic deficit from which they suffer. i therefore believe that the ombudsman's cooperation with the entire european institutional system, including the specialised agencies, should be encouraged. the decrease in the number of complaints to the ombudsman in 2010 indicates the need to promote his work more intensively among citizens. i therefore support the presentation of the annual activity report in a broader framework, involving the other european institutions and the public.
transparency, access to information and respect for the rights of european citizens are essential for trust between citizens and institutions. when the ombudsman presents his annual report to the committee on petitions, representatives of the commission, the administration, the european parliament, the council and other institutions should also be invited to participate in the discussions. the complaints received by the ombudsman in 2010 fall into seven categories: transparency - 107 complaints, the commission's role as guardian of the treaties - 51, institutional elements - 46, staff and administrative regulations - 39, staff selection procedures - 39, contract performance - 24, granting of grants and tenders - 20. most of the complaints came from spain, germany and poland. 65% of the inquiries opened by the ombudsman in 2010 concerned the european commission and 10% the staff selection office. special attention should be paid to epso, as these competitions involve tens of thousands of candidates. we call on the commission and the other institutions responsible to improve the current situation as soon as possible.
i express my special appreciation to the political leaders who have made the difficult but necessary decisions. i would also like to thank president rompuy, president barroso, commissioner ohli rehn and, let us not forget, the president of the european central bank, mr trichet, who also made an important contribution to solving the problems raised by the crisis. there was great impatience with these decisions because it was not easy to make clear to the creditors that they had an equally great responsibility to the debtor countries. it was also not easy to explain to creditors that they must lose some of the money they borrowed and bear the loss. i hope that the technical and legal details for implementing these decisions will be worked out as soon as possible.
in writing. i welcome the conclusions of the european council, which are so necessary in the context of the current crisis. the agreement reached is essential not only for the salvation of greece and the euro area, but also for the reconfirmation of the solidarity and unity that underpin the european construction. european leaders have taken important decisions on the sustainability of public finances, structural reforms to ensure growth and support for the banking sector. they are intended to overcome the crisis. the introduction of first-class capital into the banking system will ensure that credit is extended to the real economy. injecting €100 billion into the european banking system will prevent the collapse of many of the banks that hold billions of euros in greek government bonds. it is important to maintain capital flows in eu countries, including those outside the euro area, including romania. at the same time, these measures must be complemented by the adoption of a viable european economic governance model to ensure a genuine overcoming of the recession and to prevent the recurrence of similar crises in the future. international dialogue should also be intensified in order to promote clear and appropriate rules for the optimal functioning of global markets.
in writing. the introduction of the european semester has fundamentally changed the way in which fiscal and economic policies are coordinated at european level. i believe that all member states should make clear commitments at european council level to concentrate public spending on growth and job creation. all member states should also make firm commitments to review structural funds programmes by setting new project priorities and focusing on education and research, employment, the implementation of the digital agenda and improving the conditions for boosting economic growth and reducing disparities between regions. in order to increase confidence in the banking sector, national supervisors will require banks, as a temporary measure, to bring the highest quality capital ratio to 9% by 2012. i consider it necessary that, until the financial crisis is overcome, and not only until the 9% target is reached, the contribution of dividends and the payment of bonuses by banks should be restricted. we call for the non-euro area member states and the european parliament to be kept fully informed of the preparation and outcome of the high-level meetings.
it is not enough to vote for a resolution, we must act daily to prevent persecution of christians in the world. not just because europe has christian roots, because i would say we are christian, but because it is primarily a human rights and minority issue. the fact that the christian population in syria has fallen from 10% to 8%, that thousands of christians in egypt are being forced to convert to islam, or that in iraq the christian minorities have survived dictatorships for centuries and are now dying, is a matter of great responsibility for the union. it is important that we should not be ashamed of our christian past and that we should not tolerate any discrimination against national and religious minorities in the union. we have a lot of work to do, especially in setting an example and setting a good example.
in writing. − the report emphasizes the positive work of the ombudsman and points to a remarkable change from one year to the next. the ombudsman has the duty to insist on important matters such as fundamental rights of access to documents, on proper implementation of the principle of transparency in the decision-making process, a citizen-friendly culture of service and a pro-active attitude by the eu’s institutions. i endorse this report, but there are still more things to be done. moreover, i want to emphasize the fact that in the eastern partnership countries the ombudsman has to be an important tool for democratisation and the eu has to be a positive example. there is ombudsman cooperation, which has as its main objective to reinforce the powers of ombudsman’s offices in eastern partnership countries to participate in the building of democratic states that respect individuals’ rights.
in writing. − in the current political, economic and financial context, children are the most exposed and vulnerable group. poverty, inadequate social security systems, conflicts, and military interventions are the main causes of the increase in child abuse, rights violations, and abandonment. serious crimes such as the sexual exploitation of children, child pornography, abuse and detention require strict and immediate measures, including the prosecution of offenders, their punishment, protection against their illegal recruitment or use by armed forces or armed groups, and prevention. sadly, more and more children are being exploited or used for begging, theft, and prostitution in european union countries.
in writing. − according to field studies, it has been found that sexual abuse of children is often underreported and underestimated, and children who are victims of sexual abuse suffer the consequences of it all their lives. we all know that child sexual abuse and sexual exploitation are particularly serious forms of crime, with negative effects on children and requiring special care and protection. these phenomena leave serious long-term physical, psychological and social traces on the victims. i believe that differences between national laws and procedures at union level can lead to differences in criminal investigation and prosecution, and convicted criminals can continue to pose a danger after the execution of their sentence, and therefore they must be eliminated and brought into line with a european standard. i believe that harmonising the definitions of child sexual abuse and creating legal certainty on the sexual exploitation of children should be a key objective for all member states.
in writing. − the proposal for this directive is timely, as the number of cases of paedophilia has increased alarmingly in recent years. given that approximately 20% of sex offenders reoffend after conviction, i believe that for them much harsher punishments than imprisonment are needed for a number of years, varying according to the severity of the situation. for repeat offenders, i think we should apply punishments such as chemical castration or life imprisonment. let us not forget that chemical castration laws already exist in countries such as denmark, sweden, the czech republic, the united states, and last year they were introduced in poland. it is our duty to consider and apply at european level tougher penalties for repeat pedophiles.
in writing. − the union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights, which provides that in all actions relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration. the stockholm multiannual programme also gives a clear priority to combating sexual abuse, the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the objective of this directive is to lay down minimum rules on the establishment of criminal offences and sanctions in the field of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and the sexual enticement of children. it aims to introduce provisions to strengthen crime prevention and the protection of victims. member states should take appropriate measures, such as education and training, to discourage and reduce all forms of sexual exploitation related to the exploitation of children, and should carry out information and awareness-raising campaigns, research and education programmes aimed at raising public awareness and reducing the risk of children becoming victims of sexual exploitation. member states should promote regular training activities for officials who come into contact with child victims of sexual exploitation, police officers, to enable them to identify and deal with victims and potential victims of sexual exploitation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the directive on combating the sexual abuse of children, the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. the union recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. knowingly obtaining access to child pornography through information and communication technology should be criminalised. in order to be held liable, a person should both have the intention to access a website on which child pornography is made available and be aware that such images are available on that website. the intentional nature of the offence may be inferred from the fact that it is recurrent or that it was committed in exchange for payment. the sexual exploitation of children constitutes a threat with specific characteristics in the context of the internet, as it offers users unprecedented anonymity, allowing them to conceal their real identity and personal characteristics such as age. member states should consider providing short- and long-term assistance to child victims. member states may implement registers of persons convicted of sexual offences, subject to access restrictions in accordance with national constitutional principles and applicable data protection standards.
in writing. − we have lost two years because of the european council's inability or lack of interest to work together to implement a sustainable european programme for refugees. i regret to say that this is not the only debate in this session which has been the subject of lack of co-operation and action by the council. in this case, there is a risk that if we do not find a solution by the end of the year, the use of the european refugee fund, which is due to expire in 2013, will be jeopardised. i would like to draw the council's attention to the fact that the failure to apply the emergency mechanism provided for in the codecision procedure proposed by parliament has already had a major negative impact, as the european union is facing, especially this year, repeated waves of refugees following regime changes in the arab countries. of the approximately 200 000 refugees who need to be resettled in third countries each year, half are hosted by countries in the americas, whereas in the eu only 10 countries are involved in this process and receive only 4 500 refugees a year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that reforming and improving the european asylum system is a priority for the european union, especially in the context of the problems caused by the recent events in the southern mediterranean. reform of the qualification for international protection directive is very important and necessary, but it must be borne in mind that the entire asylum package has to be adopted by the end of 2012. the most important aspect of the reform of the asylum system will be to improve solidarity between member states in the management of persons seeking protection from the european union. european states must prove that they are capable of reviving this spirit of solidarity, both for the benefit of their own citizens and those who need protection from it.
in writing. − the agreement is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the european union and australia against terrorism, provided that citizens' rights and the rule of law are respected. this common framework reflects the european parliament's calls in its resolution of 5.5.2010 and the request for the renegotiation of the agreement, with a view to protecting the fundamental rights and respecting the privacy of european citizens, in accordance with the applicable eu rules. i appreciate that the renegotiated agreement contains several new safeguards relating to the transfer and processing of passenger name record data.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement with australia on air passenger name record data as i consider it to be satisfactory and to be a step forward from previous agreements of this kind. the positive, fundamental elements are that the automatic processing of data is prohibited in principle and also that administrative and judicial remedies against possible abuses are ensured. some issues remain problematic, notably the retention period of pnr data, which is set at 5 and a half years, and the fact that the transfer of data to third countries will not be done with the explicit consent of the eu. these shortcomings should be taken into account in future pnr agreements with third countries and in particular with those currently under negotiation with the usa and canada.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-australia agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers to the australian customs and border protection service. pnr data are provided by passengers, collected by air carriers and used in ticketing, reservation and pre-boarding systems. the purpose of the agreement was limited to the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of persons committing acts of terrorism or serious transnational crime, and pnr data could not be used for other purposes. unfortunately, the data retention period of 5 years and a half is too long and contradicts the legal requirements of necessity and proportionality and the relevant case law, in particular the judgments of the national constitutional courts on proportionality in the case of long-term storage of personal data in the absence of any suspicion or blame. it is of the utmost importance that, if a directive on the use of pnr data is adopted at eu level, all agreements concluded with third countries in this area are reviewed for compliance with this directive and for the harmonisation of the conditions applicable to these agreements.
in writing. − i support this resolution and express the hope that acts of intimidation and violent repression against christian minorities will cease. the european union must strongly condemn any form of discrimination and intolerance based on religion or belief, as well as on grounds of difference based on sex, ethnic origin or language. when hundreds of christians are persecuted or brutally killed for religious reasons, the situation must be condemned in unison by all those who believe in the values of religious freedom, freedom of conscience and thought and the values of democracy. i would like to encourage egyptian and syrian civil society to move as quickly as possible to open dialogue with all political forces, without forgetting respect for democratic values and confessions or the existence of the principle of separation of church and state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the situation in egypt and syria, in particular the situation of christian communities, as freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought are fundamental and universal values and constitute essential elements of democracy. the eu has repeatedly expressed its commitment to freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought and has stressed that governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms worldwide. we welcome the efforts of the egyptian authorities to identify those responsible for and perpetrators of attacks against christian communities. we call on the egyptian authorities to ensure full respect for all fundamental rights, including freedom of association, freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, conscience and thought for all egyptian citizens, including coptic christians, and to guarantee that coptic christian communities are not subject to violent attacks, and can live in peace and freely express their beliefs, throughout the country. we call on the egyptian authorities to end discrimination against coptic christians, for example by removing references to religion from all official documents, and to ensure that constitutional provisions are inclusive and leave no room for discrimination against anyone in egyptian society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution to which all the political groups contributed, expressing disappointment at the imprisonment of yulia tymoshenko, former prime minister and leader of the opposition in ukraine. the european parliament thus decides to take action against serious breaches of democratic principles in a state which wishes to become a full member of the european union. i have asked and will continue to ask the european union to condemn with equal force the oppressive regimes inside and outside the union.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is a serious threat to public health worldwide, involving more complicated treatment protocols, higher risks of death and additional costs for health systems. this phenomenon clearly has cross-border implications and it cannot be excluded that exceptional situations may arise which are unlikely to be able to be managed with current resources and knowledge. i therefore call on member states to step up their global commitment to protecting the efficacy of antimicrobials for the benefit of future generations. i am also concerned that the level of access to information on antimicrobial resistance and the impact on citizens' consumption behaviour remains uneven across the european union, in particular with regard to the implementation of legislation on the use of antibiotics only on prescription. i believe that research on new antimicrobial agents and possible alternatives should be intensified in the framework of the european union's research programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i appreciate that we need concerted action and a holistic approach to combat the threat that antimicrobial resistance poses to public health. the increase in the number of resistant microorganisms is a worrying phenomenon, which can lead to severe crises if adequate prevention and control measures are not taken in time. it is an area in which every citizen can make a contribution by using antibiotics responsibly, only when recommended by a doctor, and strictly following the doses and durations of treatment prescribed. in this context, i would stress the importance of public information campaigns on the appropriate use of antibiotics to limit the phenomenon of the increase in antimicrobial resistance. i would also like to draw attention to the need to continue research and development to identify solutions to these new challenges. given the cross-border implications of antimicrobial resistance crises, international coordination of efforts is necessary. in this context, i would like to welcome the establishment of an eu-us transatlantic task force on the urgent issues of antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. − every year in the eu, 25 000 patients die from an infection caused by resistant microorganisms. as antimicrobial resistance is a growing public health threat, i believe that in addition to monitoring and surveillance of antimicrobial resistance, increased cooperation and funding are required to encourage research and development of new antimicrobial agents. given the misuse of antimicrobials, which creates conditions for resistant microorganisms, i support the call for actions to significantly reduce the use of antibiotics.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is an important and highly sensitive issue at eu level and has become a public health threat in europe leading to additional health costs and huge productivity losses. i believe it is the duty of the european commission to look at the issues of the misuse and mismarketing of antimicrobials, whether prescribed or not, throughout the chain and to develop a comprehensive long-term strategy to raise awareness of all stakeholders.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is an important and largely unresolved issue that has become a public health threat in europe and, globally, has led to longer and more complicated treatments, reduced quality of life, increased risk of death (every year in the eu, 25 000 patients die from an infection caused by resistant microorganisms), additional healthcare costs and lost productivity worth at least €1.5 billion/year. the special eurobarometer of april 2010 shows that there are many misconceptions about antibiotics and their effects and that 53% of europeans continue to believe that antibiotics kill viruses and 47% believe that antibiotics are effective against colds and flu. therefore, it is important to have a well-functioning monitoring and surveillance system in place to collect reliable and comparable data on the susceptibility of pathogens to microbial agents and the infections they cause, and the commission should propose without delay a harmonised surveillance system for antimicrobial resistance. research on new antimicrobial agents and possible alternatives needs to be intensified in the framework of the eu research programmes and cooperation with who needs to be strengthened.
in writing. − i supported this motion for a resolution because we urgently need a legislative framework in the european union to act against antimicrobial resistance. in recent years, the misuse of antimicrobials has led to an increase in the number and variety of resistant microorganisms. we are facing the risk of the spread of certain uncontrolled diseases and therefore we need to act as quickly as possible, promote initiatives on the responsible use of medicines, invest in the research and development of new antimicrobial agents and new alternatives, but also pay due attention to the way animals are raised - another source of development of human drug resistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on antimicrobial resistance, a public health threat, because it affects a growing number of people and implies high costs for public health systems. according to a 2009 report by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), more than 25 000 patients in the eu die each year from infections caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria. i voted for amendment no 1 because, although there is no clear link between the use of antibiotics in veterinary care and the development of resistance in humans, antimicrobial resistance affects both humans and animals and can potentially be transmitted both ways. therefore, further efforts are needed to improve agricultural practices in order to minimise the risks associated with the use of antibiotics for veterinary purposes and the development of resistance in humans. i voted for amendments 2 and 3 because i believe that restrictions should not be placed on existing treatment options that are effective and that the use of so-called 'antibiotics of last resort' targeting human pathogens should be allowed in the agricultural sector only under authorised conditions and in combination with resistance monitoring, preferably on a case-by-case basis.
in tibet, tibetan monks are arbitrarily arrested and set on fire in protest. on october 25, 38-year-old dawa tsering set herself on fire during a religious ceremony in kardze. since march this year, nine young tibetans have set themselves on fire in eastern tibet, and seven such cases have been reported since september. and isn't now the time to discuss the situation in tibet? i think it's time we discussed this situation, we'd be cowards not to. because people are dying now. when can we talk? right now, when these things are happening in tibet. and i would say, we should talk every day and say: there was one more day when the chinese authorities did nothing, there were two days when the chinese authorities did nothing. we should be discussing this situation every single day. monks are arbitrarily detained, police are permanently on the premises of the monasteries, and programs of patriotic education of the tibetan population are growing by the day. there is tension in the region and this is causing the buddhist monks to resort to the gesture of self-immolation in protest. i ask the council and the commission to make these issues a priority in their relations with the chinese government, with the main objective of genuine autonomy for tibet and an end to repression.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, eu-china relations have developed positively during 2011. our strategic partnership has strengthened in many areas. however, there are still sensitive issues where open disagreements occur from time to time, and tibet is certainly one of these. since the unrest in tibet in march 2008, this house has discussed the evolving situation on many occasions. while the eu does not question that tibet is an integral part of china, at the same time we are greatly concerned about the lack of progress on the ground, as is illustrated by the recent distressing cases of self-immolation of ten monks and nuns. the eu raised its concerns regarding tibet at the last eu-china human rights dialogue on 16 june. the eu focused on increasing legal restrictions on religious practice in tibet, limitations on the teaching of the tibetan language, the ongoing official campaign against tibetan intellectuals and cultural figures, the harsh measures taken against any tibetan attempting to protest against official policies and the impact on tibetan culture of the mass forced resettlement of nomads. furthermore, the eu expressed its anxiety regarding the situation at the kirti monastery, and in particular at the self-immolation of phuntsok jarutsang, and called on the chinese authorities to allow all tibetans, including monks, to exercise their cultural and religious rights without hindrance, and to refrain from the use of force against peaceful protest. the chinese authorities dismissed the eu’s concerns and emphasised that chinese policies in tibet had led to economic development and enormous benefits. china claimed that the series of self-immolations is instigated by forces that ‘want to destabilise tibet’. while taking note of the chinese position, the eu can only conclude that the growing number of tibetan monks choosing to take such tragic steps demonstrates the profound depth of feeling among many tibetans that their religious, linguistic and cultural rights are not being respected. the eu acknowledges the priority the chinese leadership gives to maintaining territorial integrity and economic growth in minority areas such as tibet. however, as the recent tragic events show all too clearly, economic development is not a panacea. we therefore strongly encourage china to create conditions which will allow the tibetan people to fully exercise their political, religious and cultural rights in line with the chinese constitution and the chinese legal provisions on local autonomy. furthermore, we hope that the dialogue between the envoys of the dalai lama and the chinese government – which, regrettably, has been frozen – will resume soon, since we strongly believe that only this dialogue can lead to positive results, by aiming at resolving outstanding issues in a peaceful and sustainable way for tibet. finally, i want to reassure this chamber that the eu will continue to follow up this important matter in all other appropriate meetings with the chinese authorities, including the next session of the eu-china human rights dialogue.
in writing. the european union is recognised worldwide as an alliance of states that stand up for human rights, the rule of law and respect for human dignity. it has earned these honors for speaking out against human rights abuses in various parts of the world and for its trade relations being explicitly influenced by the attitudes of the state to the human rights regime in force. we know china is one of the most important trading partners of the western world. it is in the interest of the european states that this partnership should continue to be equally fruitful for both parties. the chinese government's policy on tibet, the systematic disregard for the rights of the tibetan people, is not new. the self-sacrifice and suicide of tibetan monks and nuns is a cry for help to the whole world. a cry for help, because it seems that the previous signals, the previous less drastic forms of protest, have not been heard by the world and its champion of human rights, the european union. we have heard it and we are hearing it now, but apart from debates like this here in parliament or in some national parliaments, there is not much that is actually being done to clarify the situation. i believe that the european states should take their responses to such cases more seriously, and the european union should take itself more seriously.
a report released monday by several human rights organizations points out that the wave of protests and regime change in the arab world has led to a tightening of repressive measures in many countries. bahrain is one of the most worrying examples of this, given the brutality with which the movement for political and social reform has been suppressed. the military intervention, including by gulf joint force troops, against the peaceful protesters has left dozens dead, hundreds injured and many arrested. the decrease in the intensity of the protests did not mean the easing of the repression. arrestations of human rights defenders, dismissals and abusive sentences of medical personnel who provided first aid to injured protesters, as well as the denial of legal and medical assistance to detainees and the imposition of censorship of the media and internet access continue to be reported. the european union has repeatedly condemned the violence and repression ordered by the bahraini government, but the situation has not changed. i believe it is necessary to continue to press for the release of political prisoners, the cessation of prosecution of doctors and the persecution on political and religious grounds. i also believe that the bahraini authorities must urgently commute the death sentences that have been handed down and abandon this barbaric practice. last but not least, i want to appreciate the delay in u.s. arms sales to bahrain until the inquiry report next week.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, at the outset i should like to acknowledge the important role this parliament has played in making sure that the situation in bahrain remains high on the eu’s public agenda. as lady ashton said in this chamber two weeks ago, we welcome some recent positive steps, namely the decision to annul the charges and sentences against the medical staff and order a retrial in civilian courts. however, it is vital that justice is administered fairly and transparently. we remain convinced that a proper investigation in which the right of defence is exercised correctly should lead to these charges being dropped. we also recall that the medics are just one of the many groups of civilians who have been subject to harassment, unjustified arrest and harsh sentences, including the death sentence. retrials should be extended to all civilians tried in the national safety court. we are looking forward to the results of the independent commission of inquiry, the announcement of which was publicly welcomed by the eu. we hope that, after it reports in november, action will be taken to follow up on its findings. we are also looking forward to the promised visit by the office of the high commissioner for human rights. the commission of inquiry should offer a platform for reconciliation. the rifts in bahraini society can only be addressed through a deep and inclusive national dialogue where all parties can be heard. clearly, all human rights violations must stop. our fear is that the more time passes without positive action, the more difficult it will be to establish meaningful national dialogue. the eu has repeated this essential message – one of encouragement, not mere condemnation – in many public statements and direct contacts between the high representative/vice-president and the most senior bahraini representatives. our exchanges with the authorities and with all the parties involved will continue. we all share an interest in bahrain’s reforms, unity and prosperity. we will also continue to listen to the concerns of peaceful bahraini civil society and to strongly encourage and support them to continue with the national dialogue and agree on reforms which will benefit all bahraini citizens.
in writing. what happened in bahrain this spring must not become a forgotten revolution. the intervention of saudi troops has allowed perhaps temporarily the restoration of royal authority but, despite our repeated calls, a genuine dialogue with the opposition on political reforms has not yet been engaged. recent developments in this country are not encouraging. dozens of protesters arrested in february were brought before special national security courts and received record sentences (between 7 years and life imprisonment). doctors and medical staff at the manama hospital were also severely condemned for the simple fact that they acted ethically in treating the shia victims of the pearl square demonstrations. press freedom is also in danger as several journalists have been prosecuted and fined for spreading false news during the riots. we cannot have double standards in the way we approach events in north africa and the middle east. that is why i think it is time to be very firm with the bahraini authorities, who must urgently start a genuine process of democratic reform, which takes into account the aspirations of the protesters.
the author. - first of all, i also demand the immediate release of mrs. rafah nached, the first female psychoanalyst in syria. arrested arbitrarily on 10 september, she has been held in detention since then, despite her frail health. no clear charges have been brought against her, but according to media reports, she is accused of activities that could destabilise the syrian state and, according to her family, faces up to seven years in prison if she is ever convicted. it's a surreal situation, the syrian regime imprisoning eight psychiatrists for the simple fact that they held meetings to help syrians overcome their fear. it is a clear signal that the repression in syria knows no bounds, which is why i am pleased that our emergency resolution was preceded by a text addressing the political situation in that country, firmly condemning the repression that has claimed over three thousand lives and calling on assad to leave power so that a transition can be made possible.
on behalf of the epp group. dictatorial regimes often take action against psychology and psychologists. hitler abolished the social science departments. in 1977, the romanian communist regime closed the psychology departments of the country's major university centers. specialists in the field have been prosecuted or forcibly transferred to unskilled labor. by improperly arresting psychoanalyst rafah nached, the syrian regime continues this sad tradition, proving once again its undemocratic character. it does not engage in political activities, yet its actions have been considered subversive because they concern the human soul, which naturally aspires to freedom. and for the syrian regime, this aspiration is a danger. rafah nached must be released immediately. not because she's a scientific personality or because of her health problems, but because she's done nothing but practice her profession.
as we have seen, the european union considers the aspirations of the syrian people for a peaceful transition to democracy to be legitimate and calls on the syrian authorities to respect the right of its citizens to live in safety and to respect their legitimate aspirations for political and social reforms. we believe that the arrest of individuals, as is the case with mrs rafah nached, without good reason, makes the transition to democracy more difficult and only isolates the syrian authorities further from the democratic world. talks and diplomacy are needed to reach a peaceful solution to the crisis in syria and i believe that the european union must play a mediating role, provided that the syrian authorities are willing to do so and accept that they must respect the rule of law, fundamental freedoms and implement economic and social reforms. i believe that all these reforms represent one of the best solutions to invest in the future of the country and help stabilize its democracy, and respect for democracy requires the immediate release of rafah nached.
in writing. i condemn the violence of the syrian government against its own people. un figures show that in the last seven months over 3,000 people have been killed by the damascus authorities. of these, 180 were children. recently, amnesty international reported cases of patients being tortured in hospitals. arbitrary arrests, such as that of mrs rafah nachel on 10 september, are a form of repression against the syrian people. critics of president bashar al-assad's regime and human rights advocates are the main victims. the syrian authorities must immediately end the abuses against human rights defenders and allow humanitarian organisations access to the country so that the victims can be helped. i call on the council and the commission to impose sanctions on the damascus regime and to intervene for the immediate release of ms nached.
the reform of the directive establishing the single european railway area consolidates and clarifies the requirements of the previous directives. i welcome the obligation for member states to adopt national rail infrastructure development strategies for a period of at least seven years. only by investing in rail transport can we increase its market share. conditions for access to railway infrastructure must not prevent passengers from receiving information and buying a ticket to get from one location to another, regardless of how many operators provide rail passenger services between the two locations. i consider that the separation of the provision of rail transport services from the management of railway infrastructure should not have negative consequences for social and working conditions in this sector. we call on the commission to cooperate with trade unions and trade union associations in the sector, as well as with user representatives, in monitoring technical and economic conditions and developments on the european rail transport market, including employment.
the development of the european railway sector is essential for the union to cope with the competition and challenges it faces, but also to meet the requirements of all beneficiaries. i believe that it is beneficial to link rail transport as closely as possible with inland waterway transport, in order to cover the whole of the european union as well as to meet the objectives of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. consultation with local and regional authorities is essential for the development of national rail infrastructure strategies, as is support for countries with less developed networks. i also believe that the eu countries should put more emphasis on using the structural funds for priority transport projects, including cross-border connections and urban mobility, and should participate as much as possible in the development of specialised networks, so as not to end up with a multi-speed europe in the field of transport networks. thank you, sir.
it is clear that rail transport has not developed at the same pace as other transport sectors. the proposal for the establishment of the single european railway area sought to improve this situation. he didn't quite make it, but he made strides. unfortunately, there are still member states, there are still railway companies that do not want the real liberalisation of railway activity. the package improves non-discriminatory access to service infrastructures such as maintenance and repair stations or refuelling stations and increases the transparency of the institutional framework of the railway market. national regulatory bodies are established to prevent discriminatory practices. these bodies must be completely independent of the railway industry and national governments in order to carry out their functions. full independence of railway transport operators from infrastructure managers has not been achieved, but the accounting separation of profit and loss accounts has been achieved.
the implementation of directive 2005/36/ec on the recognition of professional qualifications is essential for professional mobility, a key factor for the economic and social development of the union. since 2007, around 100 000 recognition decisions have been taken under the directive, facilitating the mobility of 85 000 professionals. however, over 16% of solvit cases in 2010 are related to the recognition of professional qualifications. the evolution of labour markets requires greater transparency, simplification and flexibility in the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications. the periodic updating of initial training, recognition of experience and continuing training requirements is essential for the harmonisation of training. the right to work or provide services in another member state is a fundamental right, conferred by the treaties, and is a concrete example of how citizens can benefit from the single market. i take this opportunity to call again for the removal of the barriers to the free movement of labour in romania and bulgaria.
in writing. modernising and streamlining the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications is an indispensable element for increasing the mobility of european citizens. at the same time, making the labour market more flexible will also lead to a better functioning of the single market and the economic union as a whole. this report raises key issues for the future reform of the directive. an effort must be made to simplify procedures, in particular for the general recognition system. i also consider it appropriate to assess the application of compensatory measures and their relevance and to adopt optional guidelines for a more uniform approach to the application of these measures. temporary mobility should be supported by clarifying the concept and by eliminating the system of prior declaration in cases where service providers accompany the consumer in another member state without contacting local consumers. we can also explore the possibilities of coordinating our education systems so that we can achieve a higher degree of harmonisation in the future and we can extend the system of automatic recognition to other professions. lastly, voluntary professional cards can be an effective tool for faster recognition of qualifications, but they should only be implemented where they have real added value compared to the current system.
in writing. facilitating the recognition of professional qualifications at european level is a measure that will allow for a faster professional integration of young people into the eu labour market. i welcome the proposals to create networks of competent authorities and professional bodies for the most mobile professions, and to exchange information on educational programmes on a permanent basis, in order to increase the credibility of diplomas between member states, but also to improve the language skills of young people wishing to work in another member state. in addition, the introduction of the professional card, which recognises the professional qualifications of its holder at european level, will reduce bureaucratic obstacles and allow greater mobility of european citizens on the labour market. i also hope that cross-border mobility will be improved as a means of stimulating economic growth and competitiveness within the union.
in writing. the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications at eu level, regulated by the 2005 directive (2005/36/ec), is particularly important for both the old member states and for citizens of new states, such as my country, romania. freedom of movement is one of the essential rights conferred by membership of the union, and demographic change will make mobility between eu countries increasingly important. at present, only a few professions are regulated at community level, while for the rest, costly and lengthy equivalence procedures are applied, ranging from testing to the imposition of additional studies. given that education reforms facilitate the process of recognition of european qualifications, through the european qualifications framework and the bologna process, i believe that the list of regulated professions at eu level should be extended. the procedures for the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications must also be simplified and made more urgent, but greater transparency is also needed. in this context too, attention must be paid to the issue of recognition of the qualifications of third-country nationals, who must not be given priority over nationals of member states. i also believe that states should accept all categories of workers on the labour market, not just those with highly skilled professions, i.e. the so-called brain drain phenomenon.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'd like to bring to your attention a matter that has been the subject of debate in the united states legislature, and i think we should address it. it concerns romania and the return of property nationalized during the communist dictatorship. one of the cases involving the return of property belonging to a minority church is currently being litigated in the country, and the defendants are none other than the members of the former restitution committee, secretary of state markó attila and his associates, who a few years ago decided to return the property in compliance with their official duty under the laws in force. the outcome of the trial could affect the entire restitution process in romania, as the return of church property to its rightful owners could be called into question. i ask the european parliament and you to follow the developments in this case, as the union expects all member states to uphold the rule of law. the next trial is tomorrow, and the only fair end to this case is the dropping of the trumped-up charges.
during the last plenary session, the european parliament adopted the resolution on the mobility of workers in the european union, in which i personally introduced an amendment calling for the abolition of work restrictions for romanian and bulgarian citizens by the end of this year. however, this is unlikely to be the case. unfortunately, the european commission has shown that it is at least indifferent to these excessive and unfounded restrictions on the free movement of labour, since it has approved the new restrictions imposed by spain and has not reacted in any way to the extension decision taken by the other ten states. it is also regrettable - and i say this for the second time in this plenary - that although i put a written question to the commission on this subject exactly two months ago, i have not received any reply. i therefore call for an urgent response from the commission, but also for greater interest and commitment to protect the fundamental rights of european citizens in romania and bulgaria.
i would also like to welcome the commission's initiative on the consumer agenda. at european level, a coherent legal framework is needed to ensure adequate protection for all citizens. combating misleading advertising is an important element in this process. i would like to point out that the national authority for consumer protection in romania has initiated a draft amendment to the legislation in this area, in order to better protect the interests of consumers. information and education activities are also needed. for example, in romania, the national competition on the education of young consumers 'choose! it's your right' is held annually, organised by the anpc and the ministry of education, youth and sport. the competition, now in its ninth year, is aimed at pupils aged 6 to 18 and aims to help to train a generation of consumers who are aware of their rights.
services of general economic interest contribute to the prosperity and economic competitiveness of the member states. these services are also essential in combating social inequalities. however, the compensation for their insurance must not distort competition and harm other undertakings. the principle of subsidiarity must be strictly respected. i draw your attention to protocol 26 to the treaty of lisbon. according to the court, the member states have competence to provide public services. i consider that the state aid rules should be clarified. in romania, these rules are to be simplified for small-scale public services of a local nature. the european union must also support member states' efforts to modernise services of general economic interest and to adapt them to the needs of the population. public services in romania are regulated by legislation specific to each sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of vice-president almunia, i would first of all like to thank mr simon for his report on the reform of the eu state aid rules for services of general economic interest and would also like to thank the econ, itre and imco committees and all their members for their contributions to this report. we are convinced that public services play a key role in the european social model because they make an important contribution to social stability and territorial cohesion. this is why services of general economic interest are one of the key priorities in the state aid field during our mandate. we are glad that there is such an intense debate going on about this topic between parliament, other eu institutions and all stakeholders. we particularly welcome parliament’s contribution to this debate. it reflects the importance which parliament attaches to establishing a clear legal framework for services of general economic interest. let me recall that our reform is based on three objectives: clarification, simplification and a more diversified approach. we set out these objectives in detail in our communication in march. since then, we have published draft texts that show how we think the objectives should be translated into rules. the reply to the public consultation on the draft texts has been rich and fruitful. the direction of the reform is broadly shared by all, although stakeholders have different views on the details of the changes. this is why in the coming weeks we will work to further improve on the delivery of the three objectives. the report by the european parliament could not have come at a better time. it has been able to take account of our draft texts and thus to provide us suggestions on how to further improve our texts. it will prove a particularly valuable contribution to the reform. let me briefly focus on three points in mr simon’s report: a major tool for simplification in our reform is the new de minimis regulation. the report suggests that a threshold based on the size of the municipality is not necessary to restrict the de minimis regulation to small local services, and that a three-year approach would be more flexible than the current one-year threshold. as i have already emphasised, no decision has yet been taken as to what kind of thresholds are most appropriate. we are open to suggestions and appreciate the views of all stakeholders, in particular the european parliament’s opinion. secondly, the report requests that additional social services be covered by the decision. social services play a very important role in our society and there is less need for very strict scrutiny. this is why under the more diversified approach they benefit from exemption from notification and more lenient compatibility criteria of the decision. i am open to assessing evidence and arguments to improve the scope and treatment of social services where justified. thirdly, parliament considers that the commission cannot define efficiency criteria under state aid rules. let me underline that the current drafts do not require undertakings to be efficient, nor do they allow the commission to check for efficiency. the draft texts only require that undertakings be given incentives to improve their efficiency. i know that some of you are nevertheless afraid of such a change. however, those efficiency incentives only apply to large commercial sgeis that we assess under the framework. they are also largely supported by service providers and other stakeholders. let me recall again why we are so keen to improve our rules: in the present situation, given the tight budgetary constraints of all member states, we want everyone to be given the possibility to continue enjoying accessible, affordable and efficient public services. thank you very much once again for your contribution to this reform.
in writing. ensuring that public services are of quality and accessible to all citizens is an essential element of the european social model. public services meet the daily needs of europeans and play an important role in ensuring equal opportunities and respect for fundamental rights. the european commission is seeking to simplify the state aid rules applicable to services of general economic interest; services which include the management of public transport, the supply of water and heat, the construction of social housing and the provision of postal services. the introduction of simplified legislative rules in this area would reduce the administrative burden on local authorities. at the same time, the future reform must not, under the pretext of streamlining processes, jeopardise universal access to services that mitigate the social impact of the economic crisis by protecting the vulnerable. a narrow definition of the category of services of general economic interest and the setting of low thresholds for the volume of compensation allowed would facilitate the liberalisation of public services, and liberalisation of public services means sacrificing citizens' rights and deepening economic inequalities.
in writing. i think that the commission's lack of concern about the social implications of the anti-crisis programmes implemented in the european union is evident. the conservative right has other priorities than the 116 million people who face the risk of poverty and the 42 million people who live in conditions of extreme poverty and cannot afford the essentials for a decent life. it is shocking that the banking sector is so much more important to european decision-makers than the fact that more than a quarter of the eu population is facing the scourge of poverty. poverty and its implications including long-term unemployment, which affects one in three unemployed, lack of housing and access to health services, school dropouts, social exclusion of the elderly and people with disabilities are factors that destroy social cohesion between generations and between occupational categories. i am concerned that the platform proposed by the commission does not take into account the need to combat the increased vulnerability of women, especially single mothers and the elderly. i call on the commission to be more involved in helping european citizens to fight poverty and social exclusion and i believe that a realistic analysis of the possibility of reducing by 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, is needed.
in writing. the existence of poverty in europe, which threatens some 8% of the active population, highlights the fact that further efforts are needed to achieve one of the main objectives of european integration - raising and maintaining a high standard of living for europeans. at the same time, looking at which region of europe is geographically most affected by poverty, it is very easy to turn our attention to the new member states, the region of central and eastern europe. i therefore believe that territorial cohesion, the reduction of disparities in development between the regions of europe, is one of the greatest challenges facing the union. solidarity is one of the european values enshrined in the treaties, and it is clear that this is the key to maintaining and further strengthening cohesion policy. support for economically disadvantaged regions not only benefits the economies of the member states but also brings the living standards of citizens in different regions of europe closer together, thus contributing to the construction of a common europe and to the strengthening of european identity. the achievement of the europe 2020 targets, including poverty reduction, requires the strengthening of national economies and the acceleration of their economic expansion. the european union can also contribute to this, for example through cohesion policy.
in writing. the poor suffer from hunger and disease and have a low life expectancy. hunger and malnutrition are the biggest public health threats in the world. of the 7 billion people on earth, some 925 million suffer from hunger, and children are the most affected. poverty is a major factor in the deaths of at least five million children every year around the world. in addition, poverty is also one of the biggest risk factors for diseases like hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis. i would like to encourage projects/initiatives aimed at increasing life expectancy in developing countries, addressing health care gaps in less developed countries, raising awareness of parasitic diseases worldwide, but also projects aiming at providing immediate help to disadvantaged families in the eu, and not just help that can consist of food, access to drinking water, clothing, shelter, sanitation, education and information. it is our role to do everything we can to eradicate poverty, reduce child mortality and increase life expectancy, and the european platform against poverty and social exclusion is a very good tool to achieve these goals.
i would like to say that i voted for this report because the decline in the active population and the ageing of the workforce will mark demographic developments in the eu in the coming decades. in this context, the lack of effective measures to preserve the quality of life and social inclusion can have a negative impact on social security systems. in the union, expenditure on pension funds represents on average 43% of gross expenditure on social protection benefits. the potential of older people must be exploited. i also believe that strategies to encourage birth and migration are needed. they must be tackled in a coordinated way by all european, national and regional authorities. romania has more pensioners than employees, which means that in the future the pension system will be in danger.
i voted in favour of adopting the report on demographic change in the context of the future cohesion policy, because issues such as depopulation, population ageing or labour migration represent real challenges for the member states, with a particularly strong impact on european regions. regional policy is a key instrument in tackling demographic change and that is why we must ensure that this dimension is included as a horizontal objective in future cohesion policy. the vote we have taken today is to give the regions most affected the resources and technical assistance needed to access the structural funds. they will ensure access to essential public services, but also the creation of new sources of employment, in particular by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. one of the solutions at european level to reduce the negative effects of demographic change is to promote the exchange of good practice between member states. that is why i have asked the european commission to come up with concrete solutions to ensure the continuation of the 'erasmus for local and regional elected officials' programme. i believe that this programme must continue in a form appropriate to the needs and realities.
i voted for this report because i support simplifying the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications. as i also stressed at my hearing last month, an effective recognition system is essential for the mobility of highly skilled labour. for example, romanian physiotherapists are granted the right to practise in france more quickly after the solvit intervention. the german association of engineers recently reported that over 36,000 jobs are unfilled due to a lack of professionals. a european area open to workers in all member states is part of the solution to these problems. according to the latest commission report, the mobility of romanian and bulgarian workers increased the union's gdp by 0.3%. i would like to take this opportunity to call again for the lifting of the restrictions on them and i welcome iceland's decision to allow them unconditional access to the labour market.
i welcome the vote on this report on the day of the debate on the common agricultural policy. i voted in favour of it because it is essential to create a common insurance system to protect beekeepers in crisis situations. this occupational category is in decline, mainly due to the lack of young labour. the only member states where this is not the case are romania and bulgaria. i would stress the importance of point 30: the impact of pesticides on larvae must be assessed in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009. at present, the authorisation procedure does not take into account the full implications for bees. the european reference laboratory for bee health was set up to study and prevent the effects of such substances. its coordination with national authorities also ensures real-time information on the emergence of specific diseases.
it is extremely worrying that young people and children are among the most vulnerable social groups. we voted for measures to ensure access to quality education and vocational training, but also for intensified efforts to reduce school dropout. member states must act as a matter of priority to tackle early school leaving, but the 10% target set in the eu 2020 strategy is not ambitious enough to guarantee that the problem is addressed. with youth unemployment so high in europe, tackling and preventing early school leaving is essential. i think that this report is largely a good one and contains practical and necessary measures, which i voted for. however, i could not vote for the proposal for a framework directive on services of general interest, nor for a european legislative initiative to impose a minimum income, as i believe these matters are more a matter of member states' sovereignty and competence.
i would like to stress that i voted in favour of this report because poverty and social exclusion affect the quality of life of people. in romania, as elsewhere in the world, mining settlements provide employment. cities like red mountain have a mono-specialized economy in the extractive industry. the reopening of these farms is a chance for the locals to have a better life. social protection systems must provide safety from risks and effectively support those in difficulty. in my country, the social assistance law recently passed by the senate promotes the principle of reintegration of the unemployed into the labour market. social inclusion policies need to be complemented by programmes to combat multiple discrimination. the national agency for equal opportunities between women and men supports the principle of gender equality in all national policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 15 november 2011 on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council coordinating the approximation to the laws of the member states of the safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by member states of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in respect of the formation of public limited liability companies and the maintenance and alteration of their capital. every five years, the european parliament and the council, acting on a proposal from the commission, shall, in accordance with article 50 (1) and (2) (g) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, examine and, if necessary, revise the values expressed in euro in paragraph 1, taking into account, on the one hand, economic and monetary developments in the union and, on the other hand, the tendency to allow only large and medium-sized enterprises to opt for the types of commercial company listed in annex i.
in writing. − the accession to the athens convention on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea has been a long-standing concern of the eu and, in particular, of parliament. the convention dates back to 1974 and deals in particular with the safety of passenger ships and the rights of passengers. however, it was considered that this convention does not sufficiently regulate several important aspects, such as the nature and limits of the liability of carriers and minimum insurance requirements. as it is a mixed agreement, which needs to be ratified by the member states in order to ensure a coherent legal framework throughout the union, both the member states and the union should prepare the simultaneous deposit of their instruments of ratification or accession by 31 december 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the draft council decision on the eu's accession to the 2002 protocol to the athens convention of 1974 on the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea, with the exception of articles 10 and 11. this protocol introduces clarifications on liability in the event of the fault or negligence of the carrier, compulsory insurance, limitation of liability in the event of death or personal injury or damage to luggage or vehicles. the adoption of regulation (ec) no 392/2009 on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea implies that the union now has exclusive competence to accede to the athens protocol as regards the matters covered by the regulation. all other aspects of the protocol which are not covered by the regulation are the responsibility of the member states. the athens protocol remains a mixed agreement to which each member state must become a contracting party. to that end, the member states and the union are to deposit their instruments of accession on the same day. i draw attention to the deadline of 31 december 2011 by which the union and the member states are to deposit their instruments of accession to the athens protocol or of ratification for those who have already signed it.
in writing. − the agreement put forth by the committee on transport and tourism establishing relations in the field of aviation between the eu’s 27 member states and georgia is an important step in streamlining operations between countries. in a field such as aviation where safety, security and air traffic management are paramount, it is important that the bilateral agreements that exist between individual member states and georgia be consolidated into an agreement of a common aviation area. additionally, the eu and georgia should form this agreement to solidify common framework conditions. moreover, reciprocal market opening will help broaden participation in the market which coincides with the objectives of the european neighbourhood policy. as a member of the delegation to the euronest parliamentary assembly, i see the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement as a logical step in increasing georgia’s involvement in activities that affect both georgia and the eu. the eu must ensure its commitment to passenger safety and the efficient operation of air services while encouraging the participation of its neighbours in market-boosting pursuits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of temporarily suspending common customs tariff duties on imports of certain industrial products into the canary islands, in order to support spain's efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of local economic operators and to stabilise employment in these outermost regions of the union. in order to ensure that goods imported duty-free do not distort competition, end-use controls are required to ensure that they are used by local companies on the islands. i believe that this type of measure, which favours local smes and farmers and encourages them to invest and create jobs, should also be considered in other outermost regions of the european union.
in writing. − i consider it beneficial that the european union has recognised the particular and specific problems of the canary islands and their implications for integration into the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a decision because i believe it is important to ensure the continuity of eu-funded research in the two priority areas of the programme: fusion and nuclear fission research and radiation protection. i believe that it is important for the future energy mix of the union to develop the knowledge base for iter and to make iter the main step forward towards the creation of prototype power plant reactors that are safe, sustainable, environmentally friendly and economically viable. it is important that, under the second priority 'nuclear fission and radiation protection', practical developments towards safer management of long-lived radioactive waste are accelerated in order to increase in particular the safety and efficiency of resource use. i have called for special attention to be given to the development of contractual arrangements that reduce the risk of non-performance and the reallocation of risks over time. i consider it important that, in the composition of the committees on fission and fusion issues, a reasonable balance be ensured between the number of women and men and between the member states carrying out nuclear research and training.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need to harmonise insolvency procedures. the scope of the insolvency regulation should be extended. insolvency has negative consequences for the economy of the member states. it can lead to difficulties for businesses with cross-border activities. at the same time, disparities between national legislation in this area affect competitiveness. the insolvency of a group of undertakings may lead to multiple insolvency proceedings. however, i would point out that there are no legal provisions at eu level on the insolvency of groups of undertakings. this lack of transparency can have significant negative consequences. divergence of the main procedures should be avoided. it is necessary to provide for appropriate procedural safeguards. at the same time, the balance between the interest of the entrepreneur in seeking to save his company and the interest of creditors in protecting their claims must be strengthened. i welcome the idea of creating an eu-wide insolvency register.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. differences between national insolvency laws create major problems for companies, generate abuses and affect the economies of member states. i also support the recommendations in the annex to the report, in particular those concerning the timely opening of insolvency proceedings by all firms in the event of temporary insolvency, those concerning claims, actions for annulment, the powers of the liquidator, restructuring plans, etc.
in writing. − freedom of establishment and increased mobility of companies between member states have highlighted the need for better coordination and greater harmonisation of insolvency law to combat the negative effects of 'insolvency tourism' on employees. even though labour law is the responsibility of the member states, insolvency law can have an impact on labour law and, in the context of increased globalisation and even the economic crisis, the issue of insolvency needs to be examined from the perspective of labour law. i note with concern the increasing number of workers, especially women and those over 45 years of age, affected by insolvency proceedings, which can be attributed to the very serious economic and social effects of the financial and economic crisis, and the nature of systemically important cross-border financial institutions enhancing their role in this area. i welcome the fact that directive 2008/94/ec on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer explicitly includes part-time workers, fixed-term workers and temporary agency workers in its scope. however, i believe that it is necessary to strengthen protection in the event of insolvency, even for workers with atypical contracts.
in writing. − europe has the oldest population in the world and the lowest rate of population growth. this is a reality that should concern us and make us aware that demographic change is affecting many sectors. through the implementation of community policies, common solutions and synergies can be found on the main vulnerabilities caused by demographic change. the structural funds must therefore be better adapted to the challenges of these changes, depopulation and social isolation of older people must be prevented and urban planning must be adapted. increasing the employment rate of women also plays a central role in combating this phenomenon. last but not least, better coordination between competent authorities at all levels is needed and exchanges of good practice should be encouraged. in this way, i invite member states to take into account the different levels of development of the regions in the allocation and distribution of eu structural funds and the definition of impact indicators.
in writing. − there are two important aspects of europe today: the ageing of the population and migration flows from within and outside the eu. in the current financial year, member states have allocated €30 billion from the structural funds to measures related to demographic change. it's an interesting idea to treat demographic change as an opportunity, not just a threat. this can be done by addressing the problem at the regional level. the commission proposed to support young families through high-quality childcare and education institutions, but also through solutions for the middle and older generation. as such, it is right to consider that the structural funds should be better adapted to these challenges. cities and villages need to be attractive to their inhabitants, have the infrastructure needed for children and families and homes for several generations. it is desirable to reduce youth unemployment through esf-funded projects.
in writing. − the european union needs to take account of current demographic changes in the member states to identify how european strategies in this area can be adapted to the problems identified by local and regional authorities. the current crisis should not affect urban and regional development projects, which should be linked to functional changes in infrastructure, including the revitalization and redevelopment of central urban areas, and the possibility of developing smaller or larger cities in the future that are better adapted to older people and their mobility.
in writing. − demographic change is a topical issue facing the eu, with irreversible effects on society. in order to achieve the eu 2020 goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, demographic change must be addressed as an opportunity, not a burden. 2012 is the 'european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations'. the decline in the number of people able to work and the ageing of the population will have a decisive effect on the labour market. at the same time, the rate of unemployment among young people is rising alarmingly, and the european union is virtually obliged to create a balance between the generations. a first step is to use the full potential of the european social fund to support training opportunities, retraining and social inclusion for women and young people. secondly, the training of the workforce must be encouraged, especially in developing regions, in countries that have recently joined the european union. the labour force in countries like romania and bulgaria is not being exploited to its full capacity. equal opportunities in the labour market will bring beneficial competition and ensure a dynamic, well-trained workforce. the elimination of discrimination in the labour force, its mobility, together with the creation of stable vocational training, are the key factors for the future of the european union.
in writing. − i voted for the report on demographic change and its consequences for the future eu cohesion policy because demographic change has very different effects from one region to another, has implications for both infrastructure and services and must be addressed in a coordinated way by european, national and regional authorities. the union's population is ageing and the birth rate is falling. an active and healthy population is critical to the development of european society. to cope with demographic change, the union needs to reduce health disparities and improve access to health services. member states should be encouraged to use the erdf and esf structural funds to adapt housing to the needs of older people, to guarantee the quality of life of an ageing society and to support young families. we call for the rules on the esf to be more manageable and to allow even small organisations to benefit from this source of funding, to develop and manage innovative social projects. we call on the commission to create more flexible conditions to stimulate combined erdf and esf funding by member states and local authorities when developing and implementing integrated urban development plans/strategies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps because i hope that it will ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and improve the conditions for its functioning, especially as regards financial markets. it is also necessary to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection and to harmonise the framework for the conduct of short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps in order to prevent the creation of obstacles to the proper functioning of the internal market, given the likelihood that member states will continue to adopt divergent measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to update the legal framework for european statistics on permanent crops by adapting it to the current needs of users and the market. in this respect and with a view to simplification, the commission is working to reduce the administrative burden on respondents and to ensure that statistical data on permanent crops are a viable basis for making sound decisions on european production and the market. it should be borne in mind that structural statistics on permanent crops are essential for the management of markets at union level.
in writing. − i consider it necessary to strengthen cooperation between the authorities producing european statistics on permanent crops at union level. i also believe that when european statistics are produced, best international practice should be taken into account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of implementing the framework programme (2012-2013), which should be based on the principles of simplicity, stability, transparency, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust, following the recommendations of the european parliament in its report on simplifying the implementation of the research framework programmes. to maintain and improve the safety level of both western and russian nuclear power plants, advanced and refined safety assessment methodologies and the corresponding analytical tools need to be extended and validated. to this end, the jrc will continue, in collaboration with its international partners, to develop networks for measuring radioactivity in the environment, making all collected data immediately available to the public.
in writing. − the euratom treaty limits the duration of all research programmes to five years. the current euratom framework programme, fp7 euratom (2007-2011), which consists of two specific programmes (one for 'indirect actions' and the other for 'direct actions' of the joint research centre (jrc), will expire at the end of 2011. i voted to extend the specific programme for 'direct actions' for 2012-13 to ensure the continuation of eu-funded research in the field of nuclear waste management and in the field of physical and radiological safety and security of nuclear systems. the implementation of the framework programme (2012-2013) should be based on the principles of simplicity, stability, transparency, legal certainty, consistency, excellence and trust. i support the need to increase budgets for initiatives ancillary to the core nuclear research activity, such as investments in human capital, as well as training and aid for nuclear researchers, to prevent possible shortages of skilled labour in the coming years. i believe that the joint research centre should contribute to the supervision of the quality and efficiency of training and to the coordination of existing educational programmes in the field of nuclear energy both within the union and in the candidate and neighbouring countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the framework programme (2012-2013), which should contribute to the realisation of the 'innovation union', one of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, by strengthening competition for scientific excellence and accelerating the implementation of key innovations in nuclear energy, in particular in nuclear fusion and safety, while also playing a role in addressing the challenges of the energy sector and climate change. the programme aims to complement other union actions in the field of research policy necessary for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular those relating to education and training, competitiveness and innovation, industry, employment and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european commission's proposals to continue nuclear research, because nuclear energy currently plays an important role in the energy mix of the member states and in ensuring energy security. i support the commission's approach, which recommends that great importance should be attached to current nuclear financing, as the european union is in a decision-making process on the future of nuclear that will be largely determined by the results of the technical risk and safety assessment of eu nuclear power plants. in addition, research in this area is also essential for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in some member states and for long-term nuclear waste management activities. it is important that the 7th euratom framework programme for nuclear research can continue until 2013 as it will allow companies, research centres and universities to contribute to the efficiency of nuclear energy (fusion and fusion) research and radiation protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the regulation laying down the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the european atomic energy community framework programme and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013). i voted for a stronger focus and higher budgetary expenditure on initiatives ancillary to the core nuclear research activity, in particular on investments in human capital and actions aimed at addressing the risk of a shortage of skilled labour in the coming years (grants for nuclear researchers). in my amendments i proposed that when independent expert groups are appointed, appropriate measures should be taken to ensure a reasonable balance between the number of women and men and between the member states carrying out nuclear research and training. i believe that when independent expert groups are appointed, a reasonable balance between business and academia must be ensured. the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities should provide a coherent, comprehensive and transparent framework so that, through simplified procedures, easy access is guaranteed to interested parties.
in writing. − the free movement of persons within the european union and the right to recognition of professional qualifications and skills will only become a reality when existing barriers are reduced to a minimum and certain national rules restricting access to skilled jobs disappear. developments in labour markets require greater transparency, simplification and flexibility of the rules on the recognition of professional qualifications. modernising the system for the recognition of professional qualifications is key to enhancing economic growth and building the confidence of professionals and citizens. i believe that the fast pace of innovation requires an open attitude on the part of european and national authorities to accept new skills, qualifications and academic studies and to facilitate the transfer of knowledge and innovation. i stress the need to develop a sustainable workforce by establishing recruitment and retention strategies, promoting gender equality, lifelong education and training, with a focus on improving working conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i would like to give you some of the reasons why. the right to obtain employment or provide services in another member state is a fundamental right, guaranteed by the treaties. the system of recognition of qualifications is the key element and its modernisation can even be a source of economic growth. citizens need a simplified system, clear and shorter deadlines for obtaining professional recognition, transparency, a system capable of integrating professionals and generating trust. i hope that all of these things will soon become realities, not for us who are debating today, but for the millions of people who are waiting for them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the implementation of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. the free movement of an increasing number of highly skilled people and workers is one of the main benefits of european cooperation and a competitive internal market, an important factor in the development of economies across the eu, and a right of all european citizens. the mobility of workers among eu citizens should be increased and direct and indirect obstacles should be removed, provided that a balance is struck between mobility and the quality of vocational qualifications. the directive encourages initiatives aimed at facilitating crossborder mobility both as a means of ensuring the efficient functioning of labour markets and as a means of stimulating economic growth and competitiveness within the eu. among other things, it should be borne in mind that the recognition of professional qualifications is closely linked to the completion of the bologna process, which aims at creating a single european area of higher education.
in writing. − parliament voted today in favour of the recognition of professional qualifications, but we must not forget that although these rules have been introduced at a general level, not all eu citizens can benefit from them. i am referring in particular to romanian citizens, who are still subject to restrictions on the labour market in many european countries. now, under the pretext of the crisis, some states that had lifted these restrictions have reimposed them. what good is it to recognize a person's qualifications if you don't give them the right to work? i wish with all my heart that this situation would change as soon as possible.
in writing. − global competition and the move towards a knowledge-based economy are creating new challenges for skills development and education. the current directive includes rules for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications in eu member states for 800 categories of regulated professions and automatic recognition for seven sectoral professions: architect, dentist, doctor, midwife, nurse, pharmacist and veterinary surgeon. the european centre for the development of vocational training estimates that the demand for highly skilled workers will increase in the european union by over 16 million jobs by 2020. i therefore support continuing vocational training, lifelong learning and recommend that member states review and improve the minimum duration of vocational training. i believe that dialogue and exchange of information within each profession must be intensified and that cooperation between the competent authorities and the national contact points must be improved both at national level and between member states. it calls on states to exchange general information on national education procedures and requirements and to organise exchanges of good practice to ensure quality of services. public authorities and social partners need to engage in a dialogue to enhance the professional integration of young people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of directive 2005/36/ec on the recognition of professional qualifications, as the freedom of movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties. to benefit from freedom of movement, professionals need to have their qualifications easily recognised in all member states. the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications provides that any host member state in which a profession is regulated has the obligation to take into account qualifications obtained in another member state and to check whether they correspond to those it requires. although the internal market creates conditions for obtaining a job or providing services in another member state, the mobility of professionals is still low in the eu. greater mobility is also a solution for jobs requiring high skills, especially in the face of a shrinking labour force. the use of modern communication technologies, including databases and online registration procedures, would bring significant improvements in access to information and knowledge of procedures, as well as in meeting deadlines set by the general recognition system. we consider that the elimination of the qualification levels, including annexes ii and iii to directive 2005/36/ec, would considerably simplify the recognition procedure.
in writing. − i welcome the european commission's initiative to launch a consumer protection agenda and stress that the internal market must develop without undermining consumer protection, guaranteeing the free movement of services and paying particular attention to the protection of workers. calls on the member states of the union to give careful consideration to the design of smarter policies that provide consumers with information that is truly useful to them, without creating additional burdens for societies, thus responding to the many challenges facing the eu today: increasing consumer empowerment and reducing inequalities, encouraging sustainable consumption, reducing consumer exposure to unsafe products, and protecting consumers, especially children, from misleading advertising. i believe that special attention should be paid to intelligent energy systems; the use of new technologies should allow all network users to participate in the internal energy market in order to save energy and reduce energy costs. coordinated efforts are also needed to better inform consumers about more efficient ways of buying and consuming food, in order to prevent and combat food waste.
in writing. − i am pleased that we will have a consumer protection agenda in may 2012 and hope that it will put food safety, human health and product safety first. we all know that we do not have the same consumer capacity and the same conditions in all member states. we know that we have poverty and food shortages, that we don't recycle enough, that the most vulnerable group of people are children. i believe, as do my colleagues, that these are just some of the things that need to be addressed and corrected in the future agenda and i supported them with my vote.
in writing. − consumer protection is one of the areas where eu action brings benefits to consumers. i believe that the report contains guidelines on the most important aspects of consumer protection policy which parliament wants to see in the new strategy to be presented by the european commission next year. the commission will need to take into account the interests of consumers when proposing legislation and, in particular, with the member states, to communicate better on consumer rights so that consumer confidence is strengthened. the lack of certainty about consumers' rights makes consumers reluctant to engage in electronic commerce and, in particular, in cross-border online transactions, which are currently a very important aspect for the development of the digital single market. we also need additional guarantees as regards the safety of products on the market. it is therefore necessary to review the product safety directive and implement the toy safety directive, as called for in this report. special attention will also need to be paid to the protection of vulnerable consumers, as well as consumers in general, and the revision of the unfair commercial practices directive or the directive on misleading advertising will be very useful to this end.
in writing. − we all know that the more than 400 million consumers are the heart and driving force of the european economy. according to the latest eurobarometer survey on consumer activeness, from april this year, most consumers consider themselves informed, but at the same time, a fairly large number have some gaps in knowledge of basic consumer protection legislation. ladies and gentlemen, european citizens play a key role in achieving the europe 2020 goals and consumer spending generates over half of the union's gdp. in this context, i believe that european consumer protection policy must make an important contribution to shifting the focus of this policy to issues that focus on citizens. european consumer protection policy must empower union consumers through fair information, market transparency and effective protection against the risks and threats to which they are exposed.
in writing. - i voted for amendment no 1 to the report on a new strategy for consumer protection policy because, under article 169 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union must contribute to the protection of the health, safety and economic interests of consumers. the union must also promote their right to information, education and organisation to defend their interests. according to the fifth edition of the consumer scoreboard (march 2011), eu consumers continue to face very different conditions. 44% of consumers said that uncertainty about their rights discourages them from buying goods in other member states and that late delivery, non-delivery and fraud are the main factors preventing them from making cross-border purchases. they support the need to ensure universal access to broadband communications networks as well as broad access to online goods and services, including by removing distribution restrictions, addressing geographical segmentation and developing electronic payment services. to increase the number of consumers accessing goods and services online, we ask the commission to legislate on the mutual recognition of electronic signatures, on electronic identity and on the promotion of electronic invoicing. i support the elimination of unfair contract terms in the sale of goods and services.
in writing. − online gambling is on the rise, to some extent outside the control of national governments, and is not a market like others, given the risks it poses to consumer protection and the fight against organised crime. different regulation of this sector in the member states creates major difficulties in protecting consumers and combating illegal online gambling and the potential crime associated with it at european level. the central objective pursued must therefore be to significantly reduce this black market. in order to achieve this, one of the options i encourage member states to pursue is a total ban. it is also necessary to establish minimum standards at european level for the protection of minors, the fight against addiction, but also for the fight against money laundering and other criminal activities associated with gambling. i urge the commission to formulate standards applicable at european level and binding on all licensed online gambling operators. member states would be free to impose additional criteria at a later stage. determined action by the commission and the member states is important to ensure a high and uniform level of consumer protection at european level.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report, as i believe that recent developments and, in particular, the development of internet services have created a need to regulate some previously unregulated aspects. if until now the services consisting in the offer of games of chance were not sold across borders, with the development of the internet this has become possible. given that member states have quite different regulations on gambling, with two regulatory models based either on a controlled monopoly or on the licensing of operators, it has become necessary to establish a minimum set of rules, in particular with regard to consumer protection and fraud prevention. i also support the rapporteur's view that it is appropriate to adopt a set of standards for the creation of transparent and non-discriminatory licensing systems for gambling operators for those member states that apply the licensing-based system. last but not least, i believe that action should be taken against black-money gambling. i can therefore only support the rapporteur's suggestion to create a so-called 'white list' of legal operators so that those who use gambling are better protected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of regulations on online gambling. the central objective pursued must therefore be the significant reduction of this black market as well as the grey market. one of the options available to member states to achieve this objective is a total ban, which would require tough enforcement measures. member states are free to opt for this solution on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. an open and organised online gambling market requires an independent and strong national regulatory authority, able to set the framework conditions under which gambling is to be conducted and, above all, able to enforce them. national regulatory authorities should have the necessary powers to be able to sanction any infringement and to act against illegal operators. it is worrying that the online gambling sector is growing steadily, reaching 10% of all gambling in europe, with a total market volume exceeding eur 10 billion.
in writing. − i voted for the report on online gambling in the internal market because it does not support the deregulation/liberalisation of online gambling. in order to effectively protect consumers, especially young people and vulnerable players, from the negative aspects of online gambling, the eu needs to adopt common consumer protection standards. in this regard, given the cross-border nature of the internet, there is a need for extensive cooperation between national regulatory authorities. until now, cooperation in this field between member states has taken the form of bilateral procedures only. i consider that a pan-european code of conduct in the field of online gambling is needed, which should address the rights and obligations of both the service provider and the consumer. this code of conduct should ensure responsible gambling, a high level of protection of players, in particular minors and other vulnerable persons. the code of conduct should also include support mechanisms at eu and national level to combat cybercrime, fraud and misleading advertising, as well as a set of principles and rules to ensure the uniform protection of consumers of online gambling across the eu.
in writing. − the beekeeping sector, as an economic and social activity, plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas through the creation of new jobs. beekeeping also provides an important ecosystem service through pollination, which contributes to the enhancement of biodiversity by maintaining plant genetic diversity and maintaining balance. i invite the commission to focus research on technological developments, disease prevention and control, the definition of sustainable agricultural practices, the promotion of non-chemical alternatives and the encouragement of integrated pest management techniques and the development of veterinary products against bee disease agents. member states also need to take action to mitigate the risks to bee health. research needs to be harmonised and it is very important that national authorities support the dissemination of appropriate scientific and technical knowledge on bee health among beekeepers. i voted in favour of this report. beekeeping is part of europe's agricultural heritage and national traditions and we must fight together against the decline of bee colonies across europe.
in writing. − this is not the first time we have discussed this subject in parliament, but i am glad that this time it is an own-initiative report. we know from previous debates that the number of bee colonies in the member states is declining and that we have health problems in these colonies. we have consequences in agriculture, but also in ensuring the need for honey for consumption on the european market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the measures to protect and improve the beekeeping sector, given that the existing permissive provisions on the quality of honey and the presence of organic or synthetic external components (including antibiotics) have led to an uncertain situation, as member states establish different methods of analysis of the tolerance level, which could distort competition on the internal market. uniform legislation on the permitted levels of antibiotic residues in honey and other apiculture products should be introduced in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in honey and to avoid distortion of competition between beekeepers in the various member states. normally, the minimum concentration level of these substances does not represent a danger to human health, so zero action levels (nals) or reference values (rpas) for honey should be introduced.
in writing. − as there is no representative and comparable information at european level on beehive losses, i believe it is necessary to quantify beehive losses and to implement an appropriate monitoring system common to all member states. the european commission and the member states need to complement their efforts to help bees and beekeepers survive, as the health of bee colonies is affected by numerous lethal factors and veterinary research and practice have little role in the effective prevention or control of bee diseases. i also consider it important to create national surveillance systems and harmonised standards at eu level for the collection of data on bee health to allow for informed and independent scientific monitoring and also consider independent and timely research on bee mortality to be necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because beekeeping is a hugely important economic and social activity, which plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas in europe, creating jobs and providing an important service to the environment through pollination. it also contributes to the improvement of biodiversity by preserving the genetic diversity of plants, and bee colonies provide important ecological assets and food security. i believe it is important to take urgent action to protect bee health, taking into account the specific characteristics of beekeeping, the diversity of factors involved and the principle of proportionality and subsidiarity. i have supported the commission's pilot surveillance programme on bee health and i also support the establishment of the european reference hives network to monitor bee health in relation to environmental conditions and farming and beekeeping practices. last but not least, i agree that, under the new common agricultural policy in 2013, the eu should provide specific support to young beekeepers to counterbalance the unfavourable age structure in the beekeeping sector.
in writing. − beekeeping plays a crucial role in the sustainable development of rural areas and provides income, directly or indirectly, for over 600 000 citizens. the report emphasizes the need to reverse the worrying trend of increasing bee mortality and the decline in the number of beekeepers in europe, which could have a serious impact on food production. an estimated 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on pollination by bees. therefore it needs: to increase the level of support for honeybee-health-related research on disease prevention and control, particularly the impact of environmental factors on the bee colony immune system; continuous research and development of veterinary medical products for current eu honeybee-disease-causing agents; more coordinated action at eu level with a network of national surveillance systems and harmonised standards for data collection; more flexible rules for the authorisation and availability of veterinary products for honeybees; to encourage a greater degree of information-sharing among member states, beekeepers, farmers, industry and scientists on ecotoxicological factors affecting honeybee health; adequate training for beekeepers on disease prevention, as well as for farmers on safe use of plant protection products; to boost financial aid for apiculture under the new cap after 2013
in writing. − beekeeping is often a marginal issue when we talk about agriculture in the european union. however, it provides the main or additional income for more than 600 000 citizens in the european union. this sector provides vital services to agriculture through pollination and contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity. it is estimated that 84% of plant species and 76% of food production in europe depend on bee pollination, and their economic value is much higher than the value of honey produced, estimated at eur 15 billion per year in the eu. unfortunately, in the last decade, hives have faced increased mortality from both pesticides and specific diseases. i voted for the report on bee health and apiculture drawn up by mr tabajdi because i believe that it takes account of all the problems facing european apiculture.
in writing. − services of general economic interest contribute to the economic performance and competitiveness of member states by helping to prevent and overcome economic crises. the provision of those services of general economic interest can contribute to the achievement of growth objectives, in particular in the areas of employment, education and social inclusion, and to the achievement of high productivity, employment and social cohesion. i believe that in order for social services of general economic interest to fulfil their function, they must be accessible to all citizens, regardless of income or resources. they must also be of high quality and clearly defined within a sectoral scheme. i voted in favour of this report because social services of general interest play an important role in guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens and contribute essentially to promoting equal opportunities.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i consider the rapporteur's approach to state aid for services of general economic interest to be inappropriate and contrary to the objective of a competitive internal market. at present, there is no single and clear definition of an sgei and, given the diversity of these in the member states, it is probably very difficult, if not impossible, to have such a definition. i think that in this area it is counterproductive to harmonise just for the sake of harmonisation, each state applying a definition according to its national specificity. in these circumstances, a horizontal directive on the subject of the sgei seems to me to be inappropriate, since it is impossible to legislate without first having a definition of the subject-matter of the legislation. the treaty (tfeu) is very clear on the applicability of the competition rules to these services, provided, of course, that the public service mission is not jeopardised. the rapporteur's proposals aim to exempt certain sgeis from the competition rules, in particular the one concerning the exemption from notification without setting a ceiling for state aid for hospitals, social housing, etc., or the one concerning the raising of the ceiling for the de minimis rule. these proposals have no objective justification and are dangerous for competition.
in writing. − i voted for the reform of the state aid rules applicable to services of general economic interest because they play a key role for the citizen and are very important for the well-being of the whole of society. in the eu, it is the national, regional and local authorities who define the services to be provided in the general public interest, which are of particular importance to all citizens, but which, without state intervention, would not be provided or would be insufficiently provided. the state intervention aims at guaranteeing access to these services for all citizens, i.e. the provision of high quality services at affordable prices for all citizens. in the context of the crisis, support for maintaining the existing, threshold-free exemptions for hospitals and social housing enterprises is encouraging, as is the commission's announcement that it intends to exempt other categories from the notification obligation for state aid received.
in writing. − i voted for the reform of eu state aid rules applicable to services of general economic interest (sgeis). these are services which, without state intervention, could not always be provided or would be provided insufficiently, and social services of general interest (ssigs) play an important role in guaranteeing fundamental rights and contributing to equal opportunities. protocol 26 on services of general interest, which is annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, underlines the importance of services of general interest. the sgei must ensure a high level of quality, safety and accessibility, equal treatment and the promotion of universal access and user rights. i voted for the reform of the eu state aid rules applicable to sgeis to ensure that the implementation and compliance with protocol 26 is facilitated. to enable the future provision of smart energy or broadband communications services, substantial investment is needed to modernise infrastructure, particularly in regions where it is lacking, in the energy, telecommunications and public transport sectors. the union shall contribute to the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors. it is therefore necessary that the specific services are available and accessible to all european citizens.
in writing. − poverty and social exclusion are the most important social determinants of health and living conditions. disparities between the poor and the rich in terms of adequate access to social and health services, income and welfare gaps remain key and continue to widen in certain areas. i believe that poverty is a multifaceted phenomenon and requires an integrated response, taking into account the different stages of life and different types of needs of citizens and also based on guaranteeing access to rights, resources and services to meet the basic needs of every individual. exclusion and poverty cannot be reduced without combating inequalities and discrimination or without guaranteeing the development of national economies and solidarity with the most vulnerable social classes, i.e. without a fair and adequate distribution of national wealth. i therefore urge member states to take serious steps to promote access to fundamental rights for disadvantaged groups, as extreme poverty is a violation of human rights and a serious affront to human dignity, fostering stigma and injustice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report with all my heart. the figures are frightening: 116 million people in the union are living in poverty, a quarter of the 500 million people! the risk directly affects the rural environment, women and young people. i agree with the idea that poverty can be considered a violation of human rights. homelessness is one of the worst forms of poverty. poverty affects their health and shortens their life expectancy. i think we need the member states' actions to be coordinated by the commission in this area. member states need technical assistance. i support the report and i ask the commission to adequately fund initiatives to combat poverty and social exclusion, in particular those on early school leaving and combating child poverty.
in writing. − in the european union there are a significant number of people who are experiencing poverty, reaching 8% of the working population. according to statistics, 20 million of them are children, which significantly reduces their chances of success in life. in addition, the financial and economic crisis has further affected the situation of the most vulnerable segments of the population, whether young people, women, the elderly, migrants, people with disabilities or the roma population. as a complex phenomenon, poverty needs to be addressed in an integrated way, involving european, but also local, regional and national actors, both in the public and private spheres. it is essential that authorities take into account the different stages of life and take measures to guarantee access to resources and services for vulnerable populations. as a flagship initiative of the europe 2020 strategy, the european platform to combat poverty and social exclusion has an ambitious mission: to reduce the number of poor peruvians by 20 million in the next few years. to this end, i believe it would be useful to implement the open method of coordination so that all european citizens enjoy equal opportunities in life.
in writing. − in the european union there are over 80 million people at risk of poverty, including 20 million children and 8% of the working population. the european platform against poverty and social exclusion developed by the commission takes no account of the gender dimension of poverty and social exclusion. the commission and the member states should adopt a gender perspective to eradicate poverty and combat social exclusion and should take into account the gender dimension in national recovery plans. i call on the commission and the member states to take action to prevent the feminisation of poverty by promoting employment and entrepreneurship among women, by tackling the gender pay gap, by facilitating reconciliation between work and family responsibilities, by developing childcare facilities, by a service system for dependent persons and by promoting flexible working arrangements. combating child poverty should focus on prevention, ensuring equal access to high-quality early childhood education and care services and other child-oriented facilities through an appropriate allocation of these services and centres at regional level.
in writing. − i supported the creation of a european platform against poverty and social exclusion precisely because 22.4% of the romanian population has an income that is below the national poverty line. gdp per capita was in 2010 about 55% lower than the average gdp per capita in the european union. not only does romania, in these circumstances, allocate only 14% of gdp to social protection, while the eu average is 27% of gdp, but the purchasing power of romanians has also decreased dramatically in the last year due to the austerity measures adopted by the current government. because, for now, the measures taken by the romanian government are only destroying the foundations of the european social model, not taking into account that in the european union, social protection has reduced poverty by 38%, i believe that this platform is necessary to help countries like romania to fight poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − i voted for the parliament's resolution on the european platform against poverty and social exclusion because, as a result of the economic and financial crisis, the quality of life of many european citizens has decreased. i voted for amendments 6 and 7, which called on member states to agree on an eu-wide target for minimum income systems and to establish minimum wages (by legislation or in collective agreements) to ensure that wages are equal to at least 60% of the average wage (national, sectoral, etc.). i voted for amendment no 8, which calls for the eu to support the introduction of minimum social and environmental standards to prevent poverty and social exclusion, in particular energy poverty and rising rents, which lead to evictions and homelessness. i voted for paragraphs 71 and 95, which reiterate parliament's call for sectoral legislative initiatives on the quality and accessibility of social services of general interest, particularly in the fields of health, education, public transport, energy, water and communications, and encourage member states respectively to ensure a minimum income based on at least 60% of the average income of each member state.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i will try to react to the most frequent questions and comments, but first i would like to thank all honourable members for a very interesting and lively debate. i believe that most of us in this room feel the same way: we are really going through the defining moment in european history. i think, judging from most of your interventions, that we have come to the same conclusions: we need more europe, not less; we need to move forward together, or risk fragmentation. how much more proof do we need of how interdependent we are in europe? therefore i think that the answer should be a stronger, more responsible union, and one which safeguards what makes us unique: the community method. our work programme for 2012 brings us closer to deeper integration of economic policies and governance in the euro area. clearly, the deepening of euro area integration must be done through the community method. i agree absolutely with mr swoboda. the commission will do everything possible to prevent a possible split in the european union. i also agree with the many speakers who said that we need to offer even more assistance and help to the countries in need. therefore, we are exploring all the possibilities we have at our disposal. we have just established a task force for greece and we are looking at other ways to help the countries with problems to absorb european funds better. i am sure that the discussions we will be having next year about how to simplify our programmes will also be very important in that respect. to return to the subject of what action we intend to take, i would like to assure you that we really do feel a sense of urgency in the commission. we know that we are in an extremely demanding and difficult situation and that urgent steps are needed. you have seen how many steps we have taken so far. i think the governance package will truly change the character of how we govern – from both the macroeconomic and the microeconomic point of view – the european union as such and member states’ economies in particular. we will be having a deep debate on this issue tomorrow with president barroso and vice-president rehn, so i will not go into further detail now. i would just like to assure all of you that we will soon be presenting you with a list of proposals and a request to fast-track them. some of them have been mentioned here in this chamber this afternoon. these are the proposals through which we believe we can guarantee growth and speedily create jobs. they relate to the single market and are oriented towards removing barriers in the market. they are focused on using new technologies, including digital technologies, to create jobs and growth. turning to the economic situation, the commission will come on 23 november with a new package, alongside the annual growth survey. it will comprise not only an analysis of the state of the economy in the european union, but also very clear and concrete country-specific recommendations concerning what the commission believes should be improved in this or that member state. here again, we will need your help to reinforce the message from the european union and support the measures which, sometimes, can only be taken at national level. in addition, we will put forward two other very important proposals in this area which are based on article 136. one will be a communication on the external representation of the euro area and the other – as promised – will be the green paper on stability bonds. we know that we need to have a very thorough look at this proposal, and you know how important that discussion will be. some of you referred to the discussion on treaty change. as you know, the president of the european council has been asked, in close collaboration with the president of the commission and the president of the eurogroup, to explore the possibility of limited treaty changes in the context of the strengthening of economic governance. an interim report, including a roadmap, will be presented in december 2011 and should offer the first orientations. as you know, the report should be finalised by march 2012. we are absolutely convinced in the commission that treaty change is not a short-term remedy for the crisis and that it has to be seen as part of the wider thrust towards reinforced economic governance. i think what is very important for this parliament is that we are also absolutely convinced that parliament should be consulted on this measure. parliament should be involved in the process of thinking about how to approach this issue, and the commission will definitely proceed in this manner. with regard to programming, i think that this is the first programme on which the european parliament and the commission have cooperated so closely. i calculate that we have had more than 80 meetings between the commissioners and the respective committees. many of them were devoted to the so-called structured dialogue, so we really see it as a common project. in response to mr szájer, we are also reflecting on the proposals we heard from the european parliament. there will be a proposal on the status of the european political parties. we will continue making progress on comitology. as has been said, on the trade area our work is done. in agri we are continuing, and we promise that this process will be completed by 2012. i believe that this will be done. some of you asked about the proposals which we promised to deliver this year. as you know, we promised to deliver 40 strategic initiatives. 23 have already been delivered to the legislator and 11 will be done before the end of the year. here i would like to assure mrs trautmann, mr őry and mr cercas that both the posting of workers directive and also the social services of general interest directive will be presented to parliament in december of this year. in the end, we aim to deliver to you 34 out of 40 promised directives. clearly, the rest need more elaboration and analysis, but i can assure you that they will be coming very soon next year. to reply to various interventions from the floor, with regard to smes, i would like to assure you that every impact assessment now contains a chapter on smes and how our policies will influence them and their ability to perform in the single market. we are very much aware of how important it is to reduce the administrative burden and, as was correctly pointed out, a 25% reduction of the administrative burden has already been delivered. the commission has delivered even more. we have delivered 31% of the proposals, and 6% of them are now in the legislative process. but legislation at european level is one thing; how it is transposed at national level is another. therefore we need the good cooperation of the national member states to actively reduce administrative burdens at national level. in response to mr duff, who asked about where we stand on the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, i would like to briefly assure him that the commission is committed to speedy accession and that the current draft accession agreement results from technical negotiations with the council of europe. we believe that this is a well-balanced compromise text. therefore the commission would be willing to reopen this package only if absolutely necessary, to address the concerns of the two member states. the commission and the presidency are working very hard to reach a common position and to find a possible compromise so that we can conclude this process as quickly as possible. i will respond very briefly to all the various interventions on the financial transaction tax. i think that we have to be very fair about this question. what we are looking for is a fair contribution back to society from the financial industry, bearing in mind how much society has helped the financial industry. european governments had to provide eur 4.6 trillion in credit guarantees alone. i think it is a fair approach to try to look for additional revenues in the european union. should we tax labour? should we tax consumption? should we again transfer the burden to the citizens? we in the commission do not think so. therefore the legislative process will continue and we believe that, in the end, we will be able to find a good solution. apart from the revenue side, we also have to look at how healthy the regulatory effect will be, especially when we see what kind of results high-frequency trading can cause. this process will have a positive effect on this as well. lastly, on mrs grässle’s question concerning the staff regulations, i am sure that she is well aware that we are going through what i believe will be the last phases of the social dialogue. i have a conciliation meeting with staff unions planned for tomorrow afternoon and we definitely would like to present the proposal for staff regulation reforms before the end of the year. concerning the enforcement of european law, this is a very important issue and we are taking our powers very seriously. to give just one concrete example, we are taking three member states to court for failure to transpose the service directive. in this case, we are asking for financial penalties as well.
in writing. mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, you feel, as we do, the weight of today's debate. the weight comes from outside this parliament, it comes from the real world, which is frightened and shaken by the crisis, by youth unemployment, by the euro crisis, by greece, by italy and, god forbid, by others to follow! everyone here today has expressed, more or less directly, their displeasure. some of the promised and necessary regulations in the context of the crisis have been delayed indefinitely. maybe the 2012 schedule isn't enough. but the question is, what do we do about the real problems? what do we do about the massive youth unemployment? is centralization the solution or not? can we now proceed to amend the treaty whose path to adoption has been so complicated? i think these questions must be answered in the actions of the next few days, not just in the 2012 programme. i believe you have both the wisdom and the strength to give these answers. i hope you have the courage to do it. so help us god!
if the european union is not a problem, then we must leave with a leadership position in the fight against climate change. we can do this through a broad and effective action of environmental diplomacy, so that in durban we can get clear targets to achieve our goal. we need to bring a new dynamic to the european union negotiations and we need to do so in a way that encourages our partners to reduce their emissions. we also need to support the creation of that green fund so that we can support all the measures needed to mitigate the effects of climate change. we need to consider, if we are to speak with one voice in durban, to demand the principle of climate justice. because the most affected by climate change are the disadvantaged, those living in poverty and at risk of poverty, especially women and children. we need to protect these categories. i am sure that we will speak with one voice as the european union and advocate smart development, job creation and social security, because that is the important role we have in durban.
the establishment of the green climate fund at the copenhagen conference gave hope that we could mobilize a common will to identify solutions to climate change. in preparing for the durban conference, we need to take into account new objectives in the area of changing and adapting current energy infrastructure and supporting measures to increase efficient investment in low-carbon technologies. during 2010, global carbon dioxide emissions increased by 5% due to increased productivity in emerging economies. therefore, until a global agreement on this comes into force, we need to focus on short and medium-term measures to be able to achieve the proposed 2020 targets. in concrete terms, we can better guide municipalities and regional authorities towards a transition to a low-carbon local economy through existing community support.
global warming is one of the most serious threats of our time. the effects of climate change will have significant ecological, economic and social impacts. i believe that the eu should retain its role as a global climate leader and have a clear strategy at the durban conference. environmental policy needs to be integrated more effectively into other sectoral policies. removing barriers in this area is vital for the future. in my country, the priority action plan for implementing the community environmental acquis this year includes 85 measures. the legislative package deals in particular with industrial pollution control, waste management and water quality. at the same time, the danube delta's climate change adaptation strategy is promoting energy production from sustainable biomass cultivation.
member of the commission. − madam president, everyone i have heard taking the floor here today has expressed the wish that we must continue to pursue the goal of getting an international deal done. everyone i have heard here today shares the common frustration – which is of course also my frustration and i think everybody’s frustration in europe –at the lack of speed in progress. it is not that there is no progress. there is, but it is not as speedy as the urgency of the matter should tell us that it ought to be. i also understand that everyone here agrees that, in order to have an internationally global deal that effectively combats climate change, we need all the major emitters, all the major economies, to be part of the solution. when we agree about all this, the next question for all of us will be how do we then proceed best in order to get them into the global deal we want? i heard one member here say that we should encourage them. i agree, but i think that we have encouraged them for some years now and so far not with enough success. some of them simply are not ready to commit. what choice does that leave us with? we could of course give up on them. i do not feel much appetite for that here. so instead we will have to find other ways to achieve the goal. i have heard some here say that we should drop these conditions and just take a second commitment period, no matter what. my question is: try to think whether that will increase or weaken the pressure on those that we want to push forward? that is the key question. i could also put it this way. say that we now, today, from europe announced that, without any conditions attached, we would just take a second commitment period. do you think that those other major emitters that we want to bring into a legally binding global system would then do more? or, on the contrary, would they lean back and relax and say, ‘oh, it is fine. europe is taking a second commitment period up to 2020 or whatever, so now we can relax. let us discuss it again at the cops in 2018, 2019 or whenever’? that is the challenge here. i think that is why we tried to – it would be easy for europe just to say we could take a second commitment period – but it would not bring others to move their position. i must say that, from a lot of outreach activities in recent months, i feel that a lot of countries – a lot of developing countries, a lot of the most vulnerable countries, the least developed countries, pacific island states – understand what europe is trying to do is increase pressure on others to engage. dan jørgensen referred to the world energy outlook and that it said that we have only five or six years left. that is, of course, why we cannot afford a conference in durban where, when we leave for home, it seems that we got something good for the process but we did nothing that could reduce emissions. we must always bear in mind that reducing emissions is the important thing. that is why we tried to use whatever we have to give leverage to the negotiations in order to try to push others in our direction. i have two final points. corinne lepage and mr pargneaux asked about funding. the eu delivered fast-start funding last year and i am glad to say that in the ecofin last monday it was clear that we are now also delivering this year. mr pargneaux asked about governance. there i am also glad that the transitional committee that should prepare green climate fund governance has agreed, with the exception of saudi arabia and the us, to ask the cop 17 to adopt a governance structure for the green climate fund. i really hope we can make that operational in durban. i must also say one more thing on funding. i can feel now when we come out – whether it is ethiopia and africa, or it is 14 heads of state at the pacific island forum or wherever it is – that they are starting to explicitly thank the eu because they can see that our fast-start finance money is starting to work out in the field. that is what we need, and it is also what is very important that the member states deliver on. to conclude, i will reiterate that a critical way for the eu to convince its partners is by also showing leadership at home, as several of you have mentioned. chris davies and mrs del castillo also mentioned energy efficiency. international negotiations are important – we all know why – but domestic ambition is also important. i agree, and the commission is also in full agreement, that we could take it much further in europe if we were actually addressing energy efficiency much more systematically. even better, it would also contribute to job creation and make us much more competitive if we actually did that. you will know that the commission has made proposals here. i really hope that parliament can help the commission keep the ambition level up here. finally, i am very much looking forward to working with the ep delegation in durban and with the presidency, all of us ensuring that europe speaks with one voice and hopefully together we can achieve progress in durban – progress that does not only look like progress when it comes to the process, but actually is progress also when it comes to taking care of the interest of actually combating climate change.
acting president of the council. - thank you all for your very important votes. this discussion is important. cooperation with the european parliament, which will also be present in durban, is important because we should speak with one voice and present the european union's position together. i would also like to refer to what has been said many times today, namely a certain negative assessment of the state of the negotiations and therefore the effect we can achieve. the situation is serious: climate change, emissions are rising, europe is in financial crisis. but i can't imagine that on behalf of the presidency i can say that we are going to durban knowing that we can't achieve anything. it would be a curious situation, i don't know how i would explain such an attitude in my country and here in front of you. i want to assure you that we're going forward with the hope that we can reach agreement on the key issues. and the key issues and the path i see for myself in negotiating with the states in durban is first of all to make concrete progress on the cancun agreements. this is the first basic point, which also covers financing, which is very important for making progress in the negotiations. the second point you have made here is that you have sent a clear signal to the kyoto protocol. the european union is interested in discussing the next settlement period. it is extremely important that we maintain this mechanism, and we will do our best to do so. the third, and perhaps the most important, is a new binding legal commitment that will cover all the emission countries, with whom we can sit down and review all the experiences related to the kyoto protocol. it will allow us to assess the situation 20 years after his negotiations. the situation has changed, and we see that there are countries that have different reduction opportunities at the moment, but there are also countries that need adaptation funding. at durban, it will certainly be very important to strike a positive balance between mitigation and adaptation, while at the same time not forgetting what we have to do in europe, which is also adaptation to climate change. in the context of what is going to happen in the next few years, what is important is what mr florenz said, namely the question of increasingly limited natural resources. by understanding this problem broadly, not just as a climate issue, but as an ecosystem issue, related to water and waste. there are more of us in the world every day, fewer resources, more consumption. so it's definitely a work in progress for the next year or two. it is important that europe urgently take action to reduce the consumption of raw materials. i hope that we will be able to work well together with the european parliament on this. thank you for your votes today.
in writing. there is ample scientific evidence of climate change and its consequences, which necessarily requires international action to address this major challenge of our century and the future. in the context of the cop 17 negotiations, it is important that the european union, as a major player with a unified message, pursues an ambitious international agreement and remains united. i believe that there is a need for a broader and more effective european environmental diplomacy, supported by all the eu institutions, which aims to present clear objectives in climate change policies, bring a new dynamic to international negotiations and encourage partners around the world to introduce mandatory greenhouse gas emission reductions and appropriate climate change mitigation and adaptation measures. in order to provide new impetus and direction in future negotiations, more attention should be paid to the fact that tackling climate change can create economic opportunities and ways to shape more resource-efficient societies.
i speak in my capacity as rapporteur of the european parliament for the discharge to the european agencies for 2010, to which the union has contributed eur 768 million. the european court of auditors' reports for the 24 agencies do not contain any concrete reference to management, procurement, human resources or performance issues. for some agencies the information is zero, and for others it's just generalizations. this year's reports contain less information than last year's reports. if these agencies have improved their work, we need to see the numbers, the arguments and be convinced. but i doubt that in a year's time the 24 agencies will suddenly have a high-performing activity. the court of auditors has all this information, but it hasn't given it to us. president caldeira, you spoke about transparency and accountability. where are they in relation to the analysis of the work of the european agencies? two: the horizontal report for the european agencies was planned for october, it was postponed to december, and at this point there is no clear data on its completion. we need this report to decide on the discharge of management of the agencies. three: worse, the european court of auditors cannot be credible to european citizens if it does not provide information on how the 768 million euro, the union's contribution to the agencies' budget in 2010, was spent, especially now that we are in the midst of a financial and confidence crisis. mr president, please send the committee on budgetary control all the data and reports requested in november.
i won't repeat what has been said so far. i just want to touch on a subject that i think is very important. i shall refer to the statement by the spokesman for regional affairs, mr ton van lierop, who said that it was normal to have more errors in this period, because all the programmes had entered a normal rate of implementation and that, in any case, the money was not lost, because we would recover it in a few years. the programmes will have entered at a normal speed of implementation; however, it is not normal that the control systems have not entered at a normal speed and have not been adapted so that errors are not greater than they were at the beginning, but on the contrary, are smaller. otherwise, the money is lost. on the one hand, because we're not going to get it all back, and on the other hand, because in those years of lost time, the money won't be spent where it's needed, the way it's needed and when it's needed. so i say we need much better control systems, which are much better adapted and much more efficient in the coming period.
thank you for your presentation. indeed, today's oral question is intended to bring to the fore again the responsibilities we have towards the poorest countries in the world, towards the millions of people who live in poverty and die every day. the european union remains the main donor, but the rate at which international donations, especially from the private sector, are declining is worrying. the indifference or inability of states to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to social assistance for development by 2015 is also a concern. we are in a massive funding gap and therefore i believe that member states' efforts to generate additional revenue for assistance must be stepped up. in this respect, i support the proposal for the adoption of mandatory budgetary calendars, as well as the proposal for increasing efficiency in the use of this money. we all hope that member states will return to growth and job creation, which will not only improve the lives of people on our continent, but also bring hope to the world's poorest countries and the planet's most disadvantaged children.
it's a good time to discuss accountability for development finance, two weeks before the busan high-level forum. i think we need to set an example and not just by meeting financial commitments. union policies must be coherent and focus on sectors that provide the basis for sustainable development. i therefore welcome the approach proposed by the commission in the agenda for change presented in october. i stress the importance of coordinating donors and joint scheduling. i ask the commission to give us more details of its efforts in this area. i would also like to point out that in romania a government decision on the financing of development assistance was recently adopted, which regulates specific actions in this field with the aim of increasing effectiveness.
i would first like to congratulate my colleague kaczmarek on an excellent report. we do not all have the chance to be represented in the joint parliamentary assembly, but i think it is very useful for the whole parliament to have an idea of what is happening in this forum. as mentioned, it is the most important parliamentary body that brings together representatives of the countries of the south and the north. important regional issues are discussed there, including conflict prevention and resolution. i want to refer, by the way, to an example: i recall that after the highly controversial and questionable elections in côte d'ivoire last year, the joint parliamentary assembly, meeting in kinshasa, was one of the first international courts to rule on the confiscation of the electoral process by laurent gbagbo. it was the first clear signal internationally that attempts by the gbagbo regime to ignore the will of the ivorian people will not be tolerated. in the resolution which i initiated in the european parliament on the situation in côte d'ivoire, we naturally referred to this position of the joint parliamentary assembly. unfortunately, this is not always the case and i would encourage my colleagues to take note, if we are to be consistent, of the texts adopted in this original forum. to be able to benefit from the contribution of our partners in the south is, i think, a real opportunity and we must not waste it.
i would also like to begin by expressing the importance of this report and of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, which has succeeded in establishing itself as an indispensable instrument in north-south cooperation. i regret that council representatives were absent in kinshasa in 2010, but i hope that the european external action service will be able to strengthen its cooperation with this influential and very useful parliamentary body in the period ahead, as demonstrated by the election monitoring missions and the negotiations for the conclusion of the economic partnership agreements. i support the criticisms made in the report that the increase in mass sexual violence and the widespread impunity on the african continent, particularly in the democratic republic of congo, are not on the agenda of the kinshasa meeting. according to un statistics, an alarming 200,000 women and girls have been victims of rape or sexual violence in the congo in the last 15 years. i therefore call, in this context, for progress to be made towards the permanent inclusion of women leaders, local women's rights organisations and civil society groups in all these decision-making processes and at all levels. all these regulations on the participation of women, young mothers and children should also be reflected in the national and regional strategy papers. equally, closer eu-acp cooperation at parliamentary level is indispensable to the process of democratic consolidation in the african, pacific and caribbean countries and, by implication, to the assumption by their parliaments of a more active role in the defence of human rights. i also stress the importance of information missions and the interaction between european and southern parliamentarians, which have fostered transparency in the processes and have now led to a better assessment of the situation on the ground. before concluding, i hope that all of the above will be taken into account for the future sessions of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly.
in a time of multiple crises, it is important to finally close the debate, this time under the fourth eu presidency, and make it possible to award the title of 'european heritage' in practice. the essence of the title would reinforce our values, our sense of belonging to the eu. by recognising differences, we are also strengthening intercultural dialogue. this is particularly important for all of us to stress. by fixing the criteria for selecting sites, by extending the geographical criteria, by providing clear and simplified provisions, we are taking steps towards citizens who expect a lot from us. it is important that the intergovernmental initiative finally becomes a formal eu action. objects that can be grouped around a specific theme and that can be jointly awarded the title represent an opening to young people in comparison with other initiatives in the field of cultural heritage. these are the signs of attention that our young people need.
the decision to establish a union action on the 'european heritage label' will enhance the sense of belonging to the union of european citizens, based on common elements of history and heritage. the brand focuses on the symbolic value of sites for european integration and the history of the union. i propose that the v.a. urechia library in galatia be awarded the european heritage label. founded in 1871 and opened in 1890, the library was defined in the reports of the time as the intellectual arsenal of society, necessary for good administration. the headquarters of the v.a. urechia library was the first headquarters of the european danube commission, which began its work in 1856 in galati, to ensure free movement on the danube. 155 years after the establishment of this committee, the european council adopted the european union strategy for the danube region, in recognition of the importance of the danube region for the history, present, future and cohesion of the union. v.a. urechia said that the strongest city is the one where the citizens defend themselves with learning, with science. the city of european culture, the urechia library in galatia, is worthy of the european heritage label.
the 'european heritage label' will support the assumption of belonging to the common cultural space of our continent. european principles and history, as well as mutual understanding, are among the elements that add value to the union. the brand initiative focuses on promoting the designated sites, disseminating information and increasing accessibility to the public. we thus acknowledge that the project did not receive the visibility it deserved in the intergovernmental phase. i welcome the agreement reached with the council, in particular the simplification and clarification of the transitional procedures. the issue of transnational sites also seems to me to be significant for the process of european construction. however, i think we should consider in the future opening up access to this project to european countries that are not yet part of the union and they cite as an argument a symbolic eu initiative: the designation of sibiu as european capital of culture when romania's accession to the union was uncertain. this designation was a real european success. the 'european heritage label' will undoubtedly raise awareness among our citizens of the diversity of our common history and boost cultural tourism. congratulations to your colleague paliadeli, congratulations to the commissioner.
i should like to begin by welcoming the debate on this detailed report by mrs paliadeli. i would stress that the 'european heritage label' is complementary to other similar programmes such as the unesco world heritage list. the mechanism supports the exchange of good practices between sites in order to improve the information and communication component. the 'european heritage label' also ensures the harmonisation of environmental protection measures in the areas where cultural sites are located. it is important to include in the programme the historical monuments of the union around which europe has been created today. the promotion of sites with a cross-border dimension is welcome. at the regional level, they have been the foundation of the european construction. romania was among the 15 countries that initiated this project in 2007, and the romanian athenaeum in bucharest was on the first list of recipients of the distinction.
in writing. the european cultural heritage label is an initiative that i particularly appreciate, especially in the current context, when the european union has divergent rather than convergent tendencies. that is why i believe that we are discussing this proposal, which is already at second reading, at the appropriate time when it can really add value to the idea of a united europe. based on a successful intergovernmental initiative, the heritage label is well placed to continue in the same vein when it becomes a community programme. in addition, it benefits from the experience gained through other similar programmes, most notably the european capital of culture, which has an undeniable scale. although i disagreed with the rapporteur at first reading on the scope of this initiative and insisted that the eu's neighbouring states should be included in order to promote transnational eu-non-eu sites, i am now convinced that it is better to take things step by step. and if we have remarkable results at union level, we can think in the coming years about extending this programme to non-member countries.
in writing. the european union is founded on a number of important principles that most european citizens know. for these principles to work in practice, it is also important to know each other from different european nations. i would like to remind you of the success of other programmes with similar objectives, such as the european capitals of culture programme (the city i represent, cluj-napoca, is a candidate to become the european capital of culture in 2020). based on the experiences of these programmes, we can be confident that the 'european heritage label' will also be a successful initiative.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the last council meeting on the future of the euro area was positive and showed the solidarity of all member states with those in difficulty, but there are still many reasons for concern at european union level. various options have been discussed so far at the euro area level, from the european union solidarity fund to eurobonds or ecb intervention in secondary markets. the unlimited implementation of these options is absolutely necessary, but i believe that without the establishment of a real european economic government for the euro area with increased decision-making powers, the european union will not be able to react as an entity. through this european economic government we will develop much closer coordination of fiscal policies at union level, we will carry out macroeconomic surveillance of the member states and develop a common economic strategy that will enhance the european union's power in the world. otherwise, the future of the single european currency, and indeed the future of the european project, could be seriously jeopardised.
), in writing. i am convinced that if we apply the new european economic governance legislation properly, then we can prevent today's difficult situations generated by the over-indebtedness of some member states in the future. i agree that we may need new measures to strengthen economic governance. but let us be careful not to unnecessarily amplify european legislation just because we are politically compromising on the behaviour of one member state or another.
in writing. against the backdrop of pessimistic forecasts for short-term economic growth, the economic governance package aims to restore confidence in financial markets. i believe that imposing only austerity measures, not accompanied by measures of economic and social development, would prolong the current economic crisis and would exacerbate the social crisis. european leaders and european institutions must focus on defining and implementing structural measures that create jobs and growth. the crisis must be resolved by the community method, not by the intergovernmental method, and the european institutions must remain at the heart of this process. the eu and its member states need industrial development, in areas where the eu is competitive, the development of transport, energy and communications infrastructure, investment in education and research. it is essential that economic governance measures do not limit these investments, which are essential for economic and social development and for the eu's competitiveness. i believe that there is a need for broad information and consultation of citizens and local authorities, who must have the capacity to attract investment and create jobs at local level, on economic governance measures adopted at european or national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the aid needed by almost 5 000 people who have been made redundant in ireland. parliament's request to simplify procedures and speed up the granting process is fully justified in the current context. the fact that this is already the 19th application to be examined confirms the need for acceleration.
in writing. − on 5 october 2011, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of ireland, to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the application concerns 4 866 redundancies in 1 482 undertakings located in two neighbouring regions which together constitute the whole of the irish state. almost 80% of the enterprises are located in the southern and eastern region, while the remaining 20% are located in the border, midlands and western region. the redundancies occurred during the nine-month reference period from 1 july 2009 to 31 march 2010. following the economic and financial crisis and the closure of many smes in the construction sector, which had enjoyed steady growth for a decade, the unemployment rate in this sector increased sharply by 19% in 2009-2010. ireland's economy is also export-oriented, which has resulted in a credit crunch which has in turn severely affected the mortgage lending market and thus the construction sector. that is why we support the mobilisation of the egf to support irish workers who have been made redundant, to help them reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. - in this report i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal to make available the eur 3.6 million needed to assist the 2 388 people made redundant in the road and rail transport sector in austria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) on austria's request in connection with the mass redundancies in the car manufacturing industry. the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 643 770 from the egf for austria in respect of 2 338 redundancies in 706 undertakings active in the field of inland waterway transport and in pipeline transport in the austrian regions of niederösterreich and oberösterreich. the redundancies took place between 1 february and 31 october 2010. the economic and financial crisis caused a 30-50% decline in freight transport activity in austria in july 2009. as regards trucks with a maximum authorised gross vehicle mass (twd) of more than 3,5 tonnes, in the first half of 2009 activity decreased by 17% compared to the same period of the previous year. these downward trends continued in 2010 and as a consequence many road transport companies in austria had to lay off some of their employees. i call on the commission and the member states to simplify the granting procedures so that people made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis can benefit from the european funds available for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. − this report concerns the expected aid for the reintegration into the labour market of 642 people made redundant in the aldi network. the greek authorities are right, in my opinion. these layoffs were triggered by the economic and financial crisis and i voted in favour of granting the aid.
in writing. − the acp-eu partnership has demonstrated its growing importance in the context of global partnerships, developing at many levels and now encompassing measures on economic cooperation, human rights, trade relations between the eu and six acp regions, and political dialogue. i consider relevant the call to acp national parliaments to increase their involvement in the process of drawing up national strategy papers on eu-cooperation with their countries for the period 2008-2013. the importance attached to women's involvement in solving social problems such as gender violence or trafficking in persons is also important.
in writing. − the european heritage label seeks to enhance the value and profile of sites that have played a key role in the history and construction of the european union, so that european citizens have a better understanding of european construction and the common cultural heritage. the distance separating the european union from its citizens is largely due to a lack of knowledge about europe's history, its role and the values on which it is based. the european heritage label thus aims to contribute to bringing european citizens closer together and to reinforcing the sense of european identity by improving knowledge of the common history and common european heritage, especially among young people. the involvement of the european union in the european heritage label will strengthen coordination between member states and contribute to the development and proper application of common, clear and transparent selection criteria and new selection and monitoring procedures for the label, thus ensuring the relevance of sites to the objectives.
in writing. - i support the idea of a european heritage label and i voted in favour of our colleague's report. i hope that this idea will give citizens in the 27 member states a sense of belonging to the union and that this means diversity, but also common elements of history and heritage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european union action on the european heritage label. i support the objective of the proposal to enhance the sense of belonging to the european union of european citizens, based on the common elements of history and heritage, as well as to value diversity and to deepen intercultural dialogue. the proposal extends an intergovernmental initiative launched five years ago and introduces new common, clear and transparent criteria for branding, which will be applied by all participating member states on a voluntary basis. the new selection and monitoring procedures will ensure that the label is awarded only to the most relevant sites, and that those that no longer meet the necessary criteria will lose it.
in writing. − the european union's proposal to create a european heritage label different from the unesco world heritage label or the council of europe's european cultural routes label is welcome, as it will allow better promotion of the less well-known branded monuments in the member states at european level. we also support the participation of representatives of the committee of the regions in the final stage of the selection process, following the model of the european capitals of culture.
in writing. − the idea of the european heritage label is a great one, as it will help to raise public awareness of our common cultural heritage and stimulate cultural tourism. the added value of this initiative to the unesco world heritage list, for example, is that sites that have played a key role in the history of the european union will be chosen, rather than on the basis of beauty or architectural quality. through this initiative, some of the most beautiful buildings in bucharest will be appreciated, such as the cantacuzino palace and the romanian athenaeum, along with the brâncuși complex in târgu jiu.
in writing. − the european union aims to become the world's leading tourist destination, relying mainly on the quality of services but also on the historical or other interests of the host member states. to do this, the eu must first become the most important and attractive tourist destination for its own citizens, especially the young. the initiative of a european heritage label is therefore valuable and i welcome the adoption of the proposal at today's meeting.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a decision establishing a european union action on the european heritage label. the objective of the proposal is to enhance the sense of belonging to the european union among european citizens, based on the common elements of history and heritage, as well as to value diversity and to deepen intercultural dialogue. the brand does not focus on the beauty or architectural quality of the sites, but rather on their symbolic value for european integration and the history of the union, and on the activities they can offer and their educational dimension, especially for young people. the proposal introduces common, clear and transparent criteria for the european heritage label, which will be applied by all participating member states. the selection and monitoring procedures will ensure that only the most relevant sites are awarded the label and that those that no longer meet the necessary criteria are stripped of it. each member state may pre-select up to two sites every two years, both national and transnational. a jury of independent experts will select at most one site per country that is acceptable for the brand. the first selection will take place in 2012 and we want the new member states to participate as much as possible.
in writing. − one of the main causes of railway stagnation is the many discrepancies between the existing rules at national level. the type of regulation is far too varied to be positive for the rail sector. this problem is exacerbated by the poor implementation of the first railway package by member states. following the parliament's resolution on this issue of 11 june 2010, the commission referred 13 member states to the court of justice of the european union 'for failure to correctly implement the first railway package'. the numerous infringement procedures under union law clearly demonstrate the need to clarify and improve the legislation. another concern is the lack of investment by member states in infrastructure, the quality of which is largely at the heart of the sector's competitiveness. many member states have neglected rail financing, giving all their support to road infrastructure. the reform should contribute to the achievement of a european railway area. the current reform should go beyond the boundaries of nationally defined interests in the railway sector. the time has come to build a true european railway area where passengers and goods can easily cross borders.
in writing. − reform of the single european railway area is necessary because the sector has been in steady decline for years, while road transport of passengers and goods has increased, leading to congestion and environmental degradation. unfortunately, the objectives of the 2001 railway package have been missed, so measures are needed to make the sector more attractive compared to other modes of transport. rail freight - now at 10% while road freight has increased to 45.9% - has potential for growth and can play a key role in the eu's achievement of its goals of a more sustainable and greener transport system for europe. to this end, measures are needed to mitigate the many discrepancies between existing national rules and to remedy the underfunding of the railway sector in the absence of member states' investments in infrastructure. i also believe that, in order to enhance safety, compliance with safety standards should be a key precondition for applying for a licence.
in writing. − rail transport has not been able to develop as well as other modes of transport for various reasons. international rail transport, in particular freight, has declined in recent years, due to the fact that transnational rail services face numerous technical, legal and political obstacles. i believe that rail transport can play a key role in meeting the community's co2 reduction targets and can be very cost-effective. as a sustainable and environmentally friendly transport system for europe, the commission must give railway transport a greater role and must make every effort to eliminate the many discrepancies between existing rules at national level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the establishment of the single european railway area. the main aspects of the proposal adopted are: transparent market conditions for the relevant rail services; ensuring strict separation of the accounts of the infrastructure manager and the railway undertakings; compliance by operators and undertakings with social and health protection legislation in order to avoid social dumping and unfair competition. the commission is to present by 31 december 2012 a proposal for a directive containing provisions on the separation of infrastructure management operations and transport operations. i voted for amendment 125 which calls for the abolition of compulsory service in case of strike and for amendments 51 and 52. they require the infrastructure manager to manage its own it services to ensure that commercially sensitive information is adequately protected. member states shall ensure that both railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, which are not fully independent of each other, are responsible for their own staff policies. we call on the commission to monitor the use of networks and the development of framework conditions in the railway sector, in particular infrastructure charging, railway infrastructure investment, price developments, the quality of rail transport services, employment conditions and social conditions.
in writing. − parliament's call to the participants in the durban climate change conference is clear: the parties must ensure that a comprehensive, equitable, ambitious and binding post-2012 international agreement is reached, based on the kyoto rules system. the main objective of this agreement must be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally and nationally as quickly as possible. but for this to become a reality, heads of state and government around the world need to show leadership and will during the negotiations and give this issue the highest priority. at this point, there is a gap between the scientific data and the current commitments of the parties. the durban agreement must be above the copenhagen agreement, on the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. the durban conference is essential for the further implementation of the cancun agreements, for setting a global emissions ceiling and for the global 2050 emission reduction target by setting a clear trajectory. last but not least, durban must say whether the 2050 greenhouse gas emission reduction target and the 2°c target are appropriate.
in writing. − the copenhagen and cancun agreements are unfortunately insufficient to meet the objective of limiting the global increase in annual average surface temperature to 2°c. the expectations of the durban conference are therefore linked to the much-needed legally binding international agreement. to this end, the eu must step up its efforts and pressure, building on the commission's roadmap for moving to a competitive, low-carbon economy by 2050. developed countries must take on the collective responsibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a much more responsible and effective way, and emerging countries have a duty to take on the role that corresponds to their new share in the global economy. the union's contribution to the financing of the european solidarity corps is estimated at eur 100000000000 and the total amount of the union contribution is eur 500000000.
in writing. − we all know that there is overwhelming scientific evidence for climate change and its consequences. i believe that at all levels of national governance around the world, we need to invest in the fight against climate change. i also believe that timely and ambitious international action is needed without delay to address this global challenge. increasing citizens' awareness and mobilising public opinion in favour of policies in this area should be the focus of all european and international leaders. i strongly believe that all these policies must continue to focus on climate change mitigation and adaptation and allocate the necessary resources to these goals, even in the current economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there is ample scientific evidence for the existence of climate change and its consequences, which requires immediate international action to address one of the most important challenges of the 21st century and of our common future. it is also true that european countries must make critical and balanced choices to maintain their prosperity and security in the future and that they must adopt national greenhouse gas emission reduction targets in line with the eu's climate change objectives. but they will lead to a healthier economy, more green jobs, and innovation and many technological advances. last but not least, i argue that we need a comprehensive, equitable, ambitious and legally binding post-2012 international agreement, based on the international rules of the kyoto protocol, that seeks to gradually reduce global greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. in paragraph 73, the text refers to sustainable land management practices, including through forest conservation, sustainable forest management, afforestation or sustainable agriculture. in this context, i welcome the recent commission proposals on the reform of the common agricultural policy which share these concerns about environmental protection. the measures are undoubtedly necessary, but we must be careful not to introduce into european legislation provisions that are absurd, difficult to implement or too costly in relation to the benefits to society. we must be careful not to jeopardise the competitiveness and productivity of european agriculture.
in writing. − i voted this resolution to support the mandate of the eu delegation to the durban conference. i recognise the importance of proactively adapting to the unavoidable consequences of climate change, particularly in the regions of the world most affected by climate change, and, above all, of protecting the most vulnerable groups in society. i therefore call on the eu to make every effort to reach a binding emissions reduction agreement in durban with firm financial commitments that support the implementation of climate change adaptation and mitigation measures. only in this way can the eu maintain its leadership and achieve its 2020 strategy objectives of sustainable growth for the well-being of its citizens.
in writing. − the copenhagen experience showed that progress, especially in the context of the economic crisis, is likely to be incremental. instead of an over-arching international agreement, we are more likely to see a series of sub-global, sector-specific agreements. good progress was made in copenhagen on the issue of financing, and we should focus on the successful implementation of this commitment and agreement on similar ones in durban. we need to see real movement on issues such as aviation and shipping, and in particular a closer cooperation with the international maritime organisation. we should also increase the measures to stop deforestation by using incentives from the green climate fund. other priority areas should be energy efficiency and technology transfer. a comprehensive international agreement is highly desirable, but it is not the only way to make significant progress on emission reductions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the durban climate change conference. we believe that the eu must take the lead and develop its own ambitious climate policy to reduce climate change, to demonstrate the benefits of such a policy and to encourage other countries to do the same. we call on the eu to define and create a separate budget line for climate finance to ensure that this funding is truly new and additional. i would stress that energy saving creates jobs and financial savings, increases energy security, competitiveness and contributes to reducing polluting emissions. some 2 billion people around the globe still lack access to affordable, sustainable energy. i stress the need to address energy poverty in line with climate change policy objectives. the development and application of innovative technologies are essential in the fight against climate change. to convince eu partners around the world that emission reductions are possible without a loss of competitiveness and jobs, i call for an international commitment to increase investment in research and development in innovative technologies for energy-intensive industrial sectors.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the eu and its member states for remaining the largest donor of development assistance despite the crisis. i also welcome the considerable contribution of aid to sustainable development in the areas of health, education, gender equality and biodiversity. considers it essential to unlock certain sources of financing for international development, such as promoting innovative taxes, significantly reducing the cost of remittances from migrants, speeding up the process of combining eu grants and eib loans without reducing aid expenditure, promoting mechanisms to improve access to financial services, such as microfinance schemes, in developing countries. mechanisms for poor people to ensure better access to financial services can be an extraordinary support for small farmers, especially women, in achieving food security. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in recent years, in the context of the economic and financial crisis, due to the extraordinary pressure on national budgets, member states have significantly reduced aid budgets and made poverty eradication more difficult. i believe that eu donors need to improve their policy dialogue with emerging economies on development cooperation and try to involve more these countries with significant resources. in addition, the european union's development policy should aim at removing all structural obstacles that undermine the achievement of the poverty reduction objective. in this connection, i recommend the application of the principle of development-oriented coherence to all community policies in the fields of agriculture, industry, raw materials and trade.
in writing. − european audiovisual is an important part of the european union's economy and should be more competitive globally. european film is an important part of culture, promoting dialogue and understanding, integrating and presenting european values within and beyond the borders of the european union, and playing a significant role in maintaining and supporting cultural and linguistic diversity. i would like to emphasise that film education contributes to the development of critical thinking and the general education of young people and beyond, while also allowing for the knowledge of the film heritage and raising awareness of the complexity of the universe of images and sounds. the film culture and language enable citizens to have a critical understanding of the different media, thus broadening and developing the resources and opportunities offered by so-called digital literacy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that sound, effective and coordinated public policies are needed to support european cinema. • technological developments are both a challenge and an opportunity. coordinated action at european level is essential to ensure that the new possibilities offered by the digital age are used to their fullest potential. • i welcome the proposals on funding models and measures to promote european films. • i consider the commitment of the president of the commission to maintain and further strengthen the media programme to be a particularly positive element. • i emphasise the cultural, social, artistic and educational role of cinema, in addition to the economic value represented by the film industry. • i would like to mention, in context, the value of romanian cinema, which illustrates these aspects. • i stress the need to support the various film schools in european countries and to provide wider access to cinema in all eu regions, including rural areas.
in writing. - i am not an expert in the field, but i think i am, like all of us, an informed consumer. cinema is clearly a cultural instrument, but also an important branch of european industry. modern technology is a huge challenge and cinema needs support to cope. education through film must become a goal for which we allocate european money. we in romania debate almost daily in the media how the younger generation is affected by the almost lost battle between television and cinema. i voted in favour of this report and i hope it will take effect quickly.
in writing. − the european cinema is facing its greatest challenge yet: to cope with the demands of modern technology. the future of cinema is inextricably linked to the advent of the digital age. modern technologies are changing the audiovisual sector, creating challenges and opportunities for the production, distribution and accessibility of european cinema, as well as generating certain risks in the transition from analogue to digital systems. the transformation process should be rapid and coordinated at both national and european level. the responsibility for participating in this process should lie with both the public and private sectors. it is clear that european cinema has enormous potential. there are about 30 000 screens in the european union, most of them small cinemas with only one or two screens. in recent years, we have seen an acceleration in the digitisation of cinemas, driven by the production of digital films, mostly from the us, as well as the growing demand from the public for 3d films. european cinemas sold almost one billion tickets for european films, representing 27% of the market. however, the european cinema market, with its full potential, is not yet integrated and film distribution in the eu is proving difficult.
in writing. − faced with the greatest challenge in its history, posed by new technologies, the european cinema must be supported in its adaptation to digital technology and to the public's demands for three-dimensional screens. there are also still major discrepancies between the west and the east of the eu in terms of citizens' access to cinemas: in western europe there is one screen for every 16 102 people, compared with one for every 40 750 people in central and eastern europe. in view of the educational role and cultural and social impact of cinema, i have spoken in favour of increased support for the switchover from analogue to digital technologies, as well as support for european film production and independent cinemas dedicated to european films.
in writing. − european cinema has evolved considerably in the last years. education through film allows citizens to have a critical understanding of the societies they live in. european cinema has to become more visible on the world scene, to match the american and the growing indian cinema. related to the way movies are projected, i believe that digital cinema is the answer and we should focus on this. the conversion from analogue to digital has many advantages. the existing system is very expensive and the use of both analogue and digital is complicated. these are the reasons why i believe european cinema has to evolve in the digital era and i endorse the resolution of piotr borys.
in writing. − in 2010, almost one billion cinema tickets were sold in the eu, demonstrating the enormous financial potential of european cinema. as the film industry enters the digital age, however, public and private investment will be needed to move to a newer format. the structural funds may be a possible financing solution. the european regional development fund has already been accessed by several film studios in poland and portugal to meet the challenges of digitalisation. one solution would therefore be for the new financial perspective 2014-2020 to contain the financial resources for this sector.
in writing. - in a time of profound social change, we must ask ourselves what role cinema still plays today. film productions can undoubtedly contribute to the creation of a common european identity and to the strengthening of the links between citizens belonging to the european area, given that most of the productions seen in the eu are made in the americas. beyond its cultural value, cinema also has an important economic dimension. in this context, adaptation to technological change is vital, bringing notable benefits to this industry: better quality, faster, easier and less costly distribution. the digital switchover is extremely expensive, however, and a burden for theatres with a small number of screens. i therefore support supporting european cinema through the allocation of funds through the media programme, but also through the structural funds, in the financial perspective 2014-2020. this effort translates into support for education and culture. at the same time, we have a duty to establish a thorough media education of the public, who must learn to discern and appreciate the content of european film productions. at the same time, due attention should be paid to the impact that 3d cinema productions can have on consumer health as this phenomenon becomes more widespread.
in writing. − we are often faced with the question of whether a european identity exists, whether it is possible to create a common european consciousness alongside/over the different national identities, which brings together the peoples of the continent and helps to achieve our common aspirations in line with the goals of european integration. i do not know the answer to that question either, of course, but i am certain that we can help achieve this by supporting european films, because european films are nourished by the diversity of cultures, and the multinational europe is present in the work of the european film industry. we all know the specific legal aspects of the institution of european citizenship, but what does it mean in everyday life, and what are the experiences of citizens in this context? european films can help us to understand this, because cinema is always a mirror of society. this was true when, for example, in the eastern half of europe, social criticism could only be expressed in a very veiled and cautious way in a film, and it is true now that artists are free to depict the image of society they believe to be authentic, the everyday life of europe. europeans need european films and films need support to adapt to the challenges of the modern age.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on european cinema in the digital age because i believe that the digital age creates new opportunities for the audiovisual sector, especially in the film industry. this ensures increased efficiency in the distribution, screening and availability of films, as well as better audio and video quality offered to european audiences. i voted for paragraph 92 which calls on the member states to include film education in their national education programmes. although european cinema provided more than 30 000 jobs in 2010 and almost one billion cinema tickets were sold in the eu, there is a geographical imbalance in europe in terms of the accessibility of cinemas and films to citizens, with the imbalance being more pronounced in eastern europe and in rural areas. the digitisation of the european film industry and its cinemas must be supported at european and national level in order to avoid limiting access to cultural diversity and availability. i support the need to standardise systems based on iso standards in the areas of film production, distribution and projection and to ensure the interoperability of digital projection systems and materials, as well as other devices. the development of digital cinema requires respect for intellectual property and related rights in the information society.
madam president, the european union’s relations with the united states of america are one of the most important stabilising factors at global level. although there have been some negative aspects to go with the positive ones, these relations are stable and based on a fundamental set of values which are becoming universal. it would be unrealistic to say that these relations have not been affected by the economic crisis. our position differs from theirs on certain aspects of the crisis, because its effects have been different on the two sides of the atlantic, but i hope that these natural differences will not endanger our good relations. it would be unproductive to reduce these transatlantic relations to just the economic dimension; both the eu and us are engaged in management processes such as globalisation and sustainable development, combating the effects of climate change, maintaining global stability and promoting democratisation all over the world. we need to support the development of free and open democracies and promote peace and stability, especially in the middle eastern and north african countries. we also need to make substantial efforts to finally find a sustainable solution to the palestinian issue. we also need to cooperate more closely to solve the iranian nuclear file and to radically change the human rights situation in iran and syria. as vice-chair of the development committee, i consider that urgent coordinating measures are needed in order to provide the necessary funds for continuation of the existing programmes in the poorest countries of africa and central america in particular. we are the world’s biggest donors, and this dialogue is very important from this point of view.
madam president, the current financial crisis is by far the gravest challenge we face in common. we are being challenged both separately – europe in its very integration, the us in its world-leading role – but most importantly together as the west. however, given the complexity of our relations, we need a more strategic dialogue, educating the new elites on both sides of the atlantic on our common stakes regarding primarily the current financial crisis, the middle east, the revolutions in the arab world, afghanistan and pakistan, iran as well as the bric countries. in security terms, due to the absence of major threats to europe and the shift of us attention towards the pacific, we run the risk of a diminished us participation in ensuring the security of our continent. to avoid it, one needs to increase, not decrease our own defence efforts in both the un and nato and address the potential negative impact of decision-making fragmentation.
in writing. i would like to welcome today's discussion on the eu-us summit on 28 november 2011. the transatlantic relationship has been and remains extremely important for europe, since the united states is our natural ally, to which we are linked not only by a common history but also by important values. that is why, in times of economic and financial crisis, it is very important that these two transatlantic partners have a coordinated response to global economic challenges and jointly develop new strategies to promote growth and jobs. at the same time, events in the southern mediterranean force us to reflect together on how to promote common values in this region - democracy, pluralism, human rights. the recent challenges should not, however, blind us to some of the fundamental issues of the eu-us bilateral relationship. i would therefore like to draw attention to paragraph 24 of the resolution, which i initiated, and which stresses the need to deal with the usa, at technical and political level, on the issue of admitting the remaining four eu member states to the visa waiver programme. for romania, this is an issue that needs to be addressed urgently.
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is not a party to the treaty. first of all, i would like to thank both committees and the two chairmen, mr reul and mr harbour, for their questions. it is very important that we can discuss today the 2009 telecommunications package, and in particular the very important issue of the open internet and the principle of net neutrality. these issues are extremely important, especially in our time, when the internet and all the information and communication tools are the engine of our economy and may be one of the tools that will help europe and even the whole world out of the crisis. the success of the internet, in my view, is the success of the openness and the ability to use it in a simple, accessible and clear way for every citizen. that is why this discussion is, in my view, as president-in-office of the council, extremely important. as regards the first part of the question relating to the assessment of the implementation of this package in the member states, i would first like to point out that we are all aware that since the adoption of the new eu telecoms rules in november 2009, national regulatory authorities have been required to promote access to information and the use of applications and services of their choice among end-users. these opportunities shall be promoted by supporting the requirements for transparency of information to the subscriber. in addition, national regulatory authorities are also granted a very important right to set minimum quality of service requirements. member states shall recognise the importance of effectively implementing those requirements while preserving the open nature of the internet and ensuring a generally accessible stable internet. member states are also aware of some concerns about discriminatory forms of data management and handling, price transparency and quality of service, both online and in terms of personal data protection. states therefore emphasise the importance of providing consumers with transparent information so that everyone can make an informed choice about the offer they choose, whether limited or otherwise, in full the consumer must, however, be aware of the offer that is made to him, and stress the need to address issues of discrimination and degradation of service quality that may result from certain traffic management practices. in this context, the council underlines the important role of berec and the european commission, together with the national regulatory authorities, in analysing the market and assessing the compliance of operators with the provisions of the regulatory framework. what's happened so far? we are aware, of course, that not all member states have implemented the package yet. we must remember that these are several comprehensive directives that require in-depth analysis, and these implementation processes are nearing completion in each member state. the introduction of net neutrality and all the requirements related to transparency have already generated a great deal of debate in the member states. such debates have taken place in poland, for example, or in france. the debate with market participants and with the participants in the internet chain, i.e. telecommunications operators, content providers and individual market participants, means that we will also be able to discuss partial self-regulation, which is very important. so these regulations are already in effect. as regards the second part of the question, i would point out that the council, recognising the need for a uniform approach to this issue, prepared its conclusions for the commission's communication on the open internet and net neutrality. therefore, at the next council of ministers on 13 december, we will adopt such council conclusions and i think this will provide a common and linked to the provisions of the amended regulatory framework approach to this subject. the council welcomes the commission's commitment to monitor the processes of implementation of the union regulatory framework and its readiness to further analyse these aspects of net neutrality, which present significant and persistent problems, and encourages the commission and berec to monitor current practices in order to eliminate instances of traffic mismanagement. where traffic management is already in place, it should be done in a manner that respects proportionality, transparency, ensures uninterrupted flow and guarantees price transparency and quality of service requirements in a form that does not affect network neutrality. in its conclusions, the council endorses the commission's intention to assess, on the basis of the data from the berec study, the need to publish additional guidance or to adopt further regulations. if the need arises, such documents will be prepared and the council will deal with them in accordance with its legislative powers. sorry i was late. thank you very much. thank you.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am pleased to be here to respond on behalf of the commission in the absence of neelie kroes, who has had to go to warsaw. open internet is an issue that affects every one of us and is increasingly an economic essential. the commission has stressed on several occasions the importance of having an open internet, accessible to everyone, from the innovators who provide content, to those who use it. the commission thinks that the best way to deliver an open internet is through competitive markets. but for competition to work properly, consumers need to make informed choices, and to know exactly what service they are getting. they also need to be able to switch operators easily and quickly. the new telecoms rules approved in 2009 specifically require operators to be transparent about the service they offer and the traffic management techniques they apply. they also help their consumers to switch operator, in particular by improving number portability procedures and conditions for contract subscription and termination. if needed, they empower national regulators to set minimum quality of service requirements. these rules, which had to be implemented by may this year, have not yet been fully transposed in all member states. the commission is vigilantly monitoring their implementation. this will allow us to ensure that open and neutral internet principles are respected in practice. in addition, the commission has asked the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec), in which all the member states’ telecoms regulators are represented, to undertake a rigorous fact-finding exercise on these issues, including barriers to changing operators, blocking or throttling of internet traffic, voice over internet services, transparency and quality of service. we need to know what the situation is: whether customers really do know what service they are signing up to, whether throttling and blocking are really common practices and what the impact is on the service quality delivered to the end-user. we also want to make sure that consumers can switch providers easily, if they do not like the service they are getting. in parallel, berec is working on guidance and transparency. it is working on a framework for net neutrality and quality of service, which looks specifically into how to use minimum quality of service requirements as specified in article 22 (3) of the universal service directive. it is also working on the competition issues relating to net neutrality. building on berec’s and any industry’s inputs and based on its own analysis, the commission will decide whether additional guidance or more stringent measures regarding open internet and net neutrality are necessary – and by the way, as the council has rightly stated, we will make public berec’s findings. it is very important that we have the facts and figures before acting. if we do need to act, we must do so in a coordinated way across europe. i would therefore urge national regulators to collaborate with their peers and the commission when considering regulatory action in this area, and to act on the basis of facts. at this stage, i cannot yet tell members yet whether the commission will develop additional guidance or general legislative measures to enhance competition and consumer choice, such as by further facilitating consumer switching. however, we are very confident we will receive all the necessary input to make an informed decision. the house can be sure that any proposal in this area will be subject to an in-depth assessment of their impact, including on fundamental rights. much is at stake in the area of open internet and net neutrality. the commission wants to make sure that sound policy initiatives are developed that help deliver the objectives of the digital agenda for europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, without a shadow of doubt, the internet has radically changed our societies and our lives and has been a driver for competitiveness, innovation and economic growth in europe over the past years. it has boosted cross-border trade through e-commerce, contributing to the development of the internal market, and it has allowed for the development of online services to the benefit of european consumers. what we have achieved so far has been possible to a large extent thanks to the openness of the internet. we should continue on this path and take all necessary measures to preserve the open internet, which will help us further develop the digital single market. of course, traffic management is necessary in order to be able to provide an adequate quality for different services. but this should not be a pretext for anti-competitive practices such as blocking, throttling and so on. we have all witnessed cases where mobile voice-through-ip services have been blocked. i therefore call on the commission, berec and the national regulatory authorities (nras) to closely monitor traffic management measures, especially for mobile internet, and take the necessary measures where anti-competitive behaviour is proved. in my view, the revised telecoms framework agreed in 2009 provides the necessary safeguards against such anti-competitive practices, but we probably need more active nras, which use their prerogatives to set minimum quality-of-service requirements. potential abuse in traffic management can be harmful to competition and can also affect freedom of expression and the freedom to conduct business, which are of the utmost importance. consumers should also be more effectively protected against misleading advertising, namely on the speed of the internet. i believe that some additional guidelines from the commission on these questions could help member states to better apply eu legislation and would enable consumers and businesses to profit from the open internet.
the open internet and net neutrality in europe are priorities for the achievement of the digital single market. the internet should provide high quality services in a framework that promotes and respects fundamental rights. we call on the commission to ensure that internet service providers do not block, discriminate against, impede or reduce a person's ability to use a service, to access, use, send, publish, receive or offer any lawful content, application or service that they want, regardless of the source or target. we ask the commission to provide parliament with data on current traffic management practices, the interconnection market and network congestion. we call on the commission to closely monitor the adoption of any national regulations on net neutrality, their effects on the internal market and on national markets. we consider that effective competition of electronic communications services, transparency of traffic management and quality of service, as well as the possibility of switching easily between providers, are minimum conditions necessary for net neutrality.
mr president, the european parliament can today show its leadership in promoting human rights and entrepreneurship both in europe and worldwide. net neutrality is about freedom of speech, freedom to access and share information and freedom of choice for consumers. the internet governs our lives, whether we are talking about individuals, about companies or about institutions. we need a rich content of information and to facilitate access to information which could improve our lives and lead to concrete economic growth. however, we also need to protect our citizens and institutions from misuses of the internet, like cyber attacks, which could lead to dangerous effects on society. we have to keep the balance between protection and censorship, and at the same time to ensure that as much information as possible is accessible via the internet, in order to develop our society.
the principle of net neutrality is fundamental to the preservation of the internet's innovative character, free competition and respect for human rights. we need to have a neutral, european, not national, internet that allows users to have no conditions limiting access to applications or services. transparency, quality of service, elimination of misleading advertising and the possibility for consumers to change their internet provider must be supported and enhanced in order to protect neutrality and citizens' rights. in some member states, such as romania, there is a strong regional discrepancy in internet access. many areas are not covered by providers, and those that are often do not provide quality services. we need to consider regional cohesion at european level on internet access, because there is a high risk of creating ... (president interrupts speaker) )
author. − mr president, first of all please allow me to welcome the presence of commissioner vassiliou in this plenary, although the topic we are talking about today is not within her mandate. you will see that there are good reasons for me to mention this. for quite some time we have been waiting for the european commission to prove that roma integration is not just a trendy word but a policy we are genuinely committed to. providing money is one aspect; important but not enough. we have been waiting in vain for the commission to demonstrate full respect for fundamental rights, as enshrined in the eu treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, in relation to roma evictions and expulsions from france. the beauty of being in europe is that the council of europe also exists and its european committee for social rights, in the decision taken in june this year, considered the french measures ‘incompatible with human dignity’ and ‘an aggravated violation of human rights’. it also stated that such violations represent a threat to the ‘shared fundamental standards of all the council of europe’s member states, namely those of human rights, democracy and the rule of law’. how was it possible for the european commission not to see this, since respect for human dignity represents the foundation of the european union? the french constitutional council saw it in its decision of march. the french conseil d’etat noted it in its judgment of april this year and stated that the french authorities did not have the right, in contravention of the principle of equality before the law, to implement the policy of evacuating unlawful settlements by designating their occupants on the basis of ethnic origin. our european commission did not see the discriminatory behaviour of the french authorities, thus allowing the french government to defend its actions invoking not the french constitutional council, nor the conseil d’etat, but the european commission’s conclusions that the evictions and expulsions were compatible with european law. what an embarrassment!
roma communities in europe today face specific challenges that require enormous efforts from the union, the member states and roma communities themselves. unemployment, lack of education and skills in the labour market, and the associated discrimination and social exclusion, are also affecting the future of roma in europe. we can fight discrimination against them by eliminating all the unfortunate situations in the union, such as the denial by some member states of the existence of minorities in their territory, and even the existence of collective criminal laws against minorities in some member states. but that's not enough. programmes that contribute to the social inclusion of roma communities should also be funded. this can be achieved by promoting education and access to the labour market. although the primary responsibility lies with the member states with a large roma population, the problem is common. the future of europe as a whole depends on the path we take now towards roma integration. i sincerely hope that in a decade, we will be able to talk about significant successes in this area, and the changes will be measurable not just in statistical indicators, but in the daily lives of local communities.
with this debate, we are sending a strong message to the member states, just one month before they present their own strategy to the european commission. i would like to point out that the romanian government has made significant progress in developing a national strategy for roma inclusion. in the six sectoral areas, the responsible ministries of labour, education, regional development, economy, agriculture, health, culture and home affairs together with local authorities will take some 63 well-defined measures. i would like to stress that the funding will be provided from the budget of each ministry, there will be no budget of the strategy itself. the implementation and monitoring of the programme will be coordinated by the deputy prime minister, the general secretariat of the government and the national agency for roma. we are all aware of the problems facing the roma. but romania's responsibility is even greater, with the largest roma minority in europe. but how they're represented matters. that is why i would perhaps recommend that, in the next european parliament elections, political parties offer an eligible seat to a roma citizen. commissioner, i would like to believe that this strategy will be successful throughout the union, but given the populist and profoundly un-european reaction of some governments to the question of romania and bulgaria joining the schengen area, i have reservations.
the recent violence against the roma minority proves what i have been saying since before the eu roma strategy was adopted, that it will remain a declaration of good intentions unless it is implemented correctly and effectively. simply adopting a non-binding strategy at european level is not effective. this is evidenced by the fact that most member states have not yet established a national roma inclusion strategy. some member states are not even considering adopting a strategy. the european commission must urgently oblige them to do so and not wait until the end of the year. it is time to put the issue of roma integration back on the european agenda, at the highest level. i therefore believe that all these european 'task forces' mentioned by the commissioner here must also deal with the roma problem in particular, and not in addition. the presidents of the commission, the european parliament and the european council should also be involved in these 'task forces'. these roma 'task forces' should ensure real coordination between actors at european and national level and the participation of local authorities and roma communities as the main drivers in the effective implementation of the strategy. we can no longer afford to treat half-heartedly this profound and shameful issue of the situation of the roma ethnic group in the european union. it is time to move from words to deeds, otherwise we risk the european union losing its credibility for good.
there are still large economic and social disparities between the different regions of the european union and a significant proportion of the roma community lives in regions that are among the least economically and socially advanced in the european union. the structural funds are the main source of reducing economic and social disparities and i consider their use for roma integration to be extremely significant. these funds can help improve infrastructure in poor communities, most often inhabited by roma. i therefore believe that the commission should subsequently ask the member states to ensure, through the operational programmes which will be made available to them for the next programming period, synergy with national roma integration strategies, thus ensuring the improvement of roma's lives.
in writing. the european union has to face the reality of the roma community, a reality dictated by the economic situation of roma in general, but especially by aspects related to the nomadic lifestyle and low level of education. the main problem facing the roma population is the low level of education and, by extension, the lack of vocational qualifications. education is an opportunity to obtain a qualification, a profession and a job, which are mandatory conditions for roma social integration. i think this is the main issue that national strategies have to address. the national approach is not sufficient. education programmes must also have a cross-border approach in order to influence the part of the roma population that has remained faithful to its nomadic traditions. the member states of origin have the greatest role to play in the process of roma integration, but the eu also has a very important role to play. framework programmes should be developed and applied in a similar way in all member states. coordination between national roma contact points is essential. the exchange of information is also extremely important. projects and measures that have achieved positive results in one member state must be adopted and multiplied in the other member states.
in writing. – the eu framework missed an opportunity to call for the elimination, not just of school segregation but of inappropriate placement of roma children in special schools, to help reduce the gap in educational achievement between roma and other eu citizens at secondary and tertiary levels. promotion graduation of roma at university level is crucial to empower roma. roma youth will be in a much more effective position to achieve social inclusion if they have good education. the significant participation of roma professionals in formulating an implementing roma policy is essential to their success. the epsco conclusions included this essential element, but inclusion is not possible without participation. while robust monitoring is outlined in the framework, the mechanisms to ensure it need to be further developed. effective monitoring would be easier if the role of the national contact points on roma were clearer. in the eu framework, these contact points are given a coordination and development role but the epsco conclusions only refer to a monitoring role. the solution would be for another independent commission to undertake the evaluation. experience in some eastern european countries has shown that if the same body implements, monitors and develops policy; poor policy implementation is likely to result.
in writing. we've been talking about a roma strategy for years. this year it was finally adopted, but in some member states their situation remains critical. the situation of the largest ethnic minority in the european union is still characterised by discrimination and social exclusion, poverty, unemployment and prejudice. more seriously, roma european citizens are being denied the freedoms and rights guaranteed to union citizens by the treaties. they continue to be exploited without appeal and treated as second-class citizens. sadly, at times even the media contributes to the stigmatization of these people and to the prejudice that is already deeply rooted in many people's consciences. more involvement is needed from both the european commission and the member states' authorities and roma community leaders to really improve their situation. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commission to ensure that the fundamental rights of european citizens are respected, regardless of ethnicity.
in writing. a viable digital single market could improve competitiveness and boost economic growth in the eu. this is essential for the development of european small and medium-sized enterprises. trust in electronic transactions needs to be strengthened. currently, only 54% of european internet users buy or sell goods on the virtual marketplace. at the same time, e-commerce has a supporting role for cross-border trade. the removal of all barriers to the use of electronic commerce is important. in particular, fiscal obstacles must be removed. it is necessary to avoid discrimination between the provision of electronic services and the provision of goods. for example, the same vat rate should be applied to both printed and electronic books. my country ranks 10th in the world in terms of quality of internet connection-access ratio. a number of projects to cover the broadband white areas are to be launched, for which eur 84 million of european funding will be allocated.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, despite diverging views political groups might have about nuclear technology, it is good to see there is a wide convergence and agreement in this parliament on the need to continue investing in nuclear research and development. it is worrying to see the decreasing interest of science students in nuclear engineering. do we really think we can afford to disregard our nuclear needs in energy consumption, in medical applications and in nuclear safety with the managed decommissioning and dismantling of nuclear power stations for the decades to come? unfortunately, contrary to what some populists would have us believe, in the case of nuclear energy you cannot decide to just switch off the power and hope that all related problems magically disappear. we will need more scientists and engineers to deal with the challenges posed by nuclear power, but also to make the most of the opportunities it offers for growth, innovation, health and many other applications. that is why we must dedicate more investment to training and we must change public perception to attract students and encourage scientific careers and excellence in this field. in research, one always invests without knowing if and when the scientific breakthrough will be made. as regards the iter project, we either say we have already spent too much money – and if we decided to stop it here it would be lost – or we continue investing and keep the faith. i believe the last option is the one we should take. however, i do not agree that this project should continue to get massive financial injections without ensuring any kind of democratic control. now, parliament is required to agree on additional funding of eur 1.3 billion over two years without knowing how these funds will be spent. i believe the minimum we should demand is to be regularly informed and updated on the construction progress and have access to internal audit documents. in addition, we must make sure that such a cost explosion does not occur in the future and have it ring-fenced in the next multiannual financial framework. lastly, the commission will soon make its proposal on the modernisation of public procurement, and i believe that proper and transparent public procurement should also be a part of a european nuclear safety policy because corruption and mismanagement in building nuclear power plants could have unimaginable – or imaginable – consequences. i hope the commission will take this aspect into consideration when drafting that proposal.
i welcome the proposal for a council decision on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr březina. in view of the possible cross-border impact of nuclear incidents, enhancing nuclear safety and, where appropriate, safety aspects should be a priority. the general objectives of the 2012-13 framework programme place particular emphasis on nuclear safety, improving nuclear waste management, safety and radiation protection and contribute to the creation of the innovation union and the construction of the european research area. the work programmes of the projects will also include standardisation activities. i believe it is essential that a high level of qualification and appropriate working conditions in the nuclear field be maintained within the community. particular attention shall be paid to initiatives accompanying core nuclear research activities, in particular with regard to investments in human capital and appropriate working conditions and actions aimed at addressing the risk of skills shortages in the coming years. member states should review professional qualifications, training and competences in the nuclear field within the union in order to provide an overview of the current situation and to enable the identification and application of appropriate solutions. continued support for the retention and training of staff is also necessary to maintain the union's nuclear independence and a constant level of nuclear safety provision and improvement. it is essential to maintain expertise in the union in radiation protection and dismantling of nuclear installations, as nuclear energy will play a key role in the union's energy mix, including in decommissioning and long-term waste management. in decommissioning obsolete systems, particular attention should be paid to long-lived nuclear waste.
i would first like to congratulate mr březina on this very technical and important report for europe at a time when the future of nuclear energy is closely linked to the guarantees we can give to citizens that this energy is safe for all citizens, whether their country has such plants or not. i say this because, after the accident in japan, nuclear safety and security has become an even greater priority, given the possible transboundary impact of possible nuclear incidents. i also believe that it is essential that the union pays particular attention to human capital initiatives, because young people who will take over the reins need time to train for the appropriate specialisation. a reassessment of nuclear specific vocational qualification programmes, training and competences within the union is important. we must avoid a skills gap, whether in the nuclear industry or in medicine, which is no less important for european citizens and, above all, for their health. the professional experience of those at the end of their careers is important in this area, as they can pass on the knowledge acquired during their years of work. last but not least, it is important to find the most appropriate solutions for the safest possible management of long-lived radioactive waste, and here research has a key role to play, which is why the union must provide the necessary funding.
nuclear energy will play a strategic role in europe's energy mix for at least another half century. in this context, the creation of a new high-technology sector in the field of fusion energy is essential. europe needs secure, sustainable, green and viable energy. at the same time, the safety and efficiency of the use of nuclear resources need to be strengthened. ensuring long-term waste management solutions is of utmost importance. the union should allocate sufficient financial resources to achieve these objectives. the largest low-temperature laboratory in europe for specific technological applications will be created in romania. funded by european funds, the râmnicu vâlcea laboratory will contribute to the construction of the first nuclear fusion reactor at cadarache.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am encouraged by the debate that has unfolded here this evening. nuclear energy, as many people mentioned, is always a source of political debate, but we must not forget that the proposal we are discussing today is for funding research to enhance the future of nuclear safety in europe, to improve the management of nuclear waste, also mentioned by a lot of members, to make progress in the whole area of radiation protection, and to create the human capital needed by the nuclear sector. i think it is vital that the importance of these research areas for the european union in general goes beyond specific political choices. the commission thanks parliament for issuing this important report and for the clear support that it gives to euratom-funded research. i can guarantee that very many elements contained in the report will be taken into account during the implementation of the framework programme over the next two years and we hope we will have the opportunity to explain this to the institution. we pay very close attention, as you know, to the opinion of this arm of the budgetary authority. as i said before, it is absolutely urgent that the decision is taken as soon as possible. as long as the decision is not taken, the framework programme cannot be adopted. last but not least, let me thank you for the strong support that you give to the commission’s proposal on the specific programme for the direct actions of the joint research centre in this area. the commission will continue to strengthen the role of the jrc to provide in-house expertise in support of the union’s policies in the areas of nuclear safety and security, environmental protection and decommissioning.
the international criminal court has a key role in strengthening peace and security, as it is the only permanent international criminal court. the union should continue to support the court in fulfilling its mission. it is important that europe's diplomatic instruments are used systematically, as recommended in paragraph 31 of the report. on the financial side, i encourage the member states and the eeas to examine the proposal for the european development fund contained in paragraph 59. i also want to point out that monday marked the beginning of the world bank group's law, justice and development week in washington. invited to deliver the opening address, the president of the court underlined the importance of cooperation between international justice and development. i welcome the fact that, following the kampala review conference, eight new states have ratified the statute of the criminal court, including the republic of moldova.
the european union has supported and continues to support georgia's aspirations and commitment to the common values and principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and good governance through its neighbourhood policy, but also through the parliamentary dimension of the eastern partnership, in the meetings of the european parliament delegation to the euronest parliamentary assembly. i only hope that the georgian authorities will do everything in their power to carry out all the necessary reforms that will allow the development of an environment conducive to the application of european standards in the field of the social market economy, in the field of education, for a better integration of national minorities, but also to implement the reforms necessary for the liberalization of the economy. it is also necessary to have a constructive political dialogue with the opposition, including non-discriminatory and unfettered access to the media. europe is not only a model for georgia, but also a partner, and in order for georgia to be better connected to the european union, it is necessary that its citizens have easy access to the visas required for travel within the community.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague mr lisek on the preparation of this report. georgia has made important progress on the path of democratic reforms. cooperation with the union is a strong incentive for their continuation. i support the recommendations on georgia's european perspective, maintaining the pace of the association agreement negotiations, launching the negotiations on the deep and comprehensive free trade area. i stress the importance of europe's more active involvement in resolving frozen conflicts, as set out in the joint communication 'a new response in the context of changes in neighbourhood'. i welcome the extension of the mandate of the eumm in view of its role in ensuring stability. steps must be taken to ensure full access to the occupied territories. i also welcome the recent agreement between georgia and russia on wto accession. i hope it will open the way to a lasting solution to the situation in the region.
the integration of gender issues into the structures of the european parliament is necessary and welcome in order to have a proper representation of the needs, aspirations and experiences of the whole of society. while we are adopting and promoting legislation aimed at equal opportunities throughout the union, and also in third countries, as european parliamentarians and representatives of european citizens, we must be the first to set an example in promoting this policy, because we cannot ask others to apply a policy of equal opportunities without doing the same at parliament's level. i also believe that there should be a balance between the proportion of women and men in decision-making, in all the leadership structures of parliament, in the offices of the political groups, committees and delegations. in addition, we must avoid discriminating against women who want to pursue a career in european structures, be mothers and have a harmonious family life.
commissioner, the blue paper 'an integrated maritime policy for the european union' was adopted in october 2007. the european union's integrated maritime policy ensures greater coherence between the measures taken under the different policies affecting maritime and coastal areas and the need to use the resources of these ecosystems in a way that does not harm the environment. eur 50 million shall be allocated for the period 2011-2013 for the implementation of the programme to support the further development of the integrated maritime policy. member states and the european union should support training, education and professional opportunities in maritime professions, such as the training of those responsible for ships and maritime transport. i stress the importance of research, development and promotion of green technologies, renewable marine energy sources and navigation. with the accession of romania and bulgaria, the european union is becoming a major player in the black sea region, a region of geostrategic importance for energy security and diversification of the european union's energy supply routes. we call on the black sea littoral states to conclude a memorandum of understanding for the development of the black sea sea corridors and we call on the commission to open a ten-t budget line to finance the black sea sea corridors, similar to the one used to finance the baltic, north sea and mediterranean sea corridors. we also call on the commission to develop a european union strategy for the black sea similar to that for the baltic sea.
i would like to highlight an issue that has not yet been clarified in relation to the future of the european integrated maritime policy. it is necessary that the black sea finds its own place in this policy to be treated in the same way as other basins. there should be a black sea fisheries management body, different from the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. i believe that the european union must make every possible diplomatic effort to bring the non-eu black sea states as close as possible to the principles of our common fisheries policy, which is not only in the interest of the black sea member states of the european union but also in the interest of the union.
in view of technological developments and the investment required in the european union's space policy, i would like to stress the important role that the use of satellite navigation systems plays in monitoring, controlling and supervising fishing activities. romania and bulgaria became members of the european union in 2007, which extended the common fisheries policy to the black sea. unfortunately, apart from bilateral agreements, there is no global agreement on the regional management of fish stocks in the black sea. the commission's support is needed to develop the regional dialogue with a view to developing a common marine strategy in the black sea area, involving the other black sea littoral states. it considers it appropriate to set up a black sea advisory council as a form of communication and technical cooperation between fisheries stakeholders. if a basic sharing agreement continues to remain in abeyance, there is a risk of resource collapse and the economic damage that has already occurred in the case of fishing for certain resources will spread widely.
i don't think there's anything more to add to what mr. kósa said. i thank all my colleagues for their support and i hope that the commission will also implement what we have asked for there, because i believe that this is a very good thing for all the citizens of europe. i also thank my colleagues from the other political groups who supported me, mrs meissner, mrs lichtenberger and mr pittella.
i voted for this report because the union needs to further develop an integrated maritime policy. a global strategy for the oceans, seas and coastal regions is needed. as one of the largest fish markets in the world, europe needs to use efficient traceability technologies. global sales from illegal fishing amount to 10 billion euros a year. i would point out that illegal fishing in the black sea is endangering valuable species, which are characterised by a long life cycle. according to statistics, since the beginning of the year, more than 90 dolphins have been identified as missing off the romanian coast, largely because of poaching. as a precaution, 50 acoustic devices have been placed to keep them away from fishing gear.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the eu-us partnership is of strategic importance and must be underpinned by an ambitious agenda. the 28 november summit is an opportunity to identify common approaches to today's challenges. i trust that it will be used. on the economic front, a strong signal is needed on the implementation of g20 decisions. promoting trade and avoiding protectionist tendencies are important elements in ensuring the exit from the crisis and the sustainable recovery of economies. but i am not in favour of a tax on international financial transactions. particular attention shall continue to be paid to security aspects. the recent iaea report on iran demonstrates that joint efforts in the field of nuclear non-proliferation need to be stepped up. i also express the hope that the summit will allow for progress on the abolition of us visas for citizens of all eu states.
while i support efforts in the areas of disarmament, arms control and nonproliferation, i did not vote in favor of this resolution. my country has a strong tradition of active engagement in these areas. it is a party to the main multilateral instruments, including the convention on certain conventional weapons and its additional protocols. romania has maintained and continues to maintain that this un mechanism is the most appropriate framework for regulating the issue of cluster munitions. he is therefore participating in the negotiations of the group of government experts to agree on a protocol on cluster munitions. this framework allows all dimensions of the subject to be addressed, humanitarian, technical, legal, military, defence, in the presence of the world's leading producers in the field. for these reasons, romania has not supported the political declarations of the oslo process and has not signed the convention on cluster munitions.
first of all, i think that cluster munitions should be banned, not because they have any value during the conflict, but because they are a source of illegal arms trafficking post-conflict. in my opinion, apart from the position of my country, romania, which - as ms băsescu said - has not signed this convention, i believe that the ottawa convention should be ratified by all european states. it is a ratification of principle, because this process of giving up the dispersion ammunition and replacing it with weapons that can be milder if it can be admitted that a weapon used in a war can be milder it is necessary to be carried out. but we too believe that this recommendation has only the power to stimulate the negotiations taking place within the un and, in this context, i have agreed to abstain from voting on this resolution.
we voted for this report, together with the alde group, for a number of reasons. i think that, beyond georgia's progress and the enthusiasm with which this country has agreed to embrace european values by accepting this association agreement, we must recognize that european values have a viability in the caucasus and, why not, in central asia. because georgia has followed the way european democracy is constituted, has taken good practices from european reality and clearly understands to step towards a european path. i would like to stress that the very courageous and objective report shows that georgia remains an occupied country, but it also underlines georgia's european vocation, including within the limits of article 49 of the treaty. that is why i believe that the negotiation that georgia will have to start on the free trade agreement is a decisive one. i welcomed the decision of georgia which, although in conflict with russia, supports russia's accession to the world trade organization, which proves that georgia has a vocation for peace, a peaceful vocation and is seeking solutions to the serious problems of the frozen conflict in ossetia and abkhazia.
in writing. − the international criminal court is currently going through a difficult time, due to political and financial circumstances beyond its control. she is increasingly unjustly attacked for political reasons, her arrest warrants are often ignored, and her current budget is not up to the task. as the eu has been and continues to be a strong supporter of the icc, there is a need for the union to assist the court more in facing challenges and difficulties of both political and financial nature. no one can deny the importance of such an international court that investigates serious cases of human rights violations, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. it is therefore important that more and more states recognize the authority of the international criminal court. it took 83 years to reach an international agreement and establish the icc. now, the states that have ratified the rome statute of the icc must also regulate the court's right to investigate crimes of aggression. the signatory states must bring their national legislation into line with the provisions of the rome statute, as they have undertaken to do.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu support to the icc for the continued provision of financial and logistical assistance to the court and for the extension of support to the court through political and diplomatic actions. it is worrying that most of the icc's 17 arrest warrants have not yet been executed, ensuring impunity and perpetuating brutal human rights violations. it is also essential for the strengthening of the role of the icc that eu member states which have not yet done so should enshrine cooperation with the icc in their national legislation and conclude framework agreements with it for the enforcement of the court's judgments.
in writing. − i consider it important and necessary to develop an integrated maritime policy at european level so that europe's maritime, coastal and outermost areas benefit from sound economic development, ecological protection and environmental protection. i strongly support the promotion of an integrated maritime policy at community level and attach great importance to the harmonious development of a european maritime area. i also believe that both regional cooperation and the exchange of good practice are very good tools for achieving the objectives of this policy. the european union and the member states concerned need to promote their policy of leading in international maritime affairs, as this allows for better international management of maritime affairs, as well as the achievement of the union's priorities. this is extremely important, given the global nature of the problems facing the maritime sector, in order to prepare joint projects.
in writing. − integrated maritime policy promotes a sectoral approach to maritime governance, promoting the identification and exploitation of synergies between all eu policies relating to the seas, oceans and coastal regions. we need to continue to develop maritime coordination and i believe that we need to implement rapidly strategies for europe's sea basins, adapted to the needs of each coastal region. i also believe that to achieve tangible results at eu level, we need to promote better the international dimension of the integrated maritime policy. this can be achieved by improving and stimulating dialogue, cooperation and coordination with third countries and, in particular, those bordering a european sea basin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a programme to support the further development of an integrated maritime policy. i voted that, under the growth, jobs and innovation objective, the programme should promote initiatives for growth and employment in the maritime sector, support training, education and career opportunities in maritime professions such as the training of those responsible for ships and maritime transport, support actions to make maritime professions more attractive and encourage the mobility of young people in maritime sectors. we support encouraging research, development and promotion of green technologies, marine renewable energy sources, and green shipping, as well as supporting measures to develop and promote a strategy for coastal, maritime and island tourism. i voted for the amendment which calls for funding for various objectives to include: integrated maritime governance and activities related to sea basins, the tools for developing an integrated maritime policy, promoting the international dimension of the integrated maritime policy and the visibility of europe's maritime profile, defining the limits of sustainability with regard to maritime activities through the adoption of the marine strategy framework directive, as well as sustainable economic growth, job creation and innovation.
in writing. − the fukushima disaster has demonstrated the need to increase nuclear research and to strengthen the safety of existing installations. the gradual phase-out of nuclear energy by some eu countries demonstrates the persisting concerns in this regard and the eu's decision to put the safety of its citizens first. at the same time, it should not be overlooked that joint european nuclear research and training plays a crucial role in promoting european competitiveness, economic growth and scientific excellence. accident prevention, waste management and the safety of nuclear fission are challenges that the eu must address as adequately and as quickly as possible in the context of the development of the nuclear industries market and the rapid rise of emerging economies. on these grounds, i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the proposals for the euratom framework programme are directly linked to the objectives of the europe 2020 and energy 2020 strategies. i support the contribution of the programme to the flagship initiative 'an innovation union' by supporting pre-commercial research and facilitating the technology transfer process between academia and business, and to the flagship initiative 'a resource efficient europe' by significantly improving the overall sustainability of nuclear energy. i believe that by emphasising training in all its activities, by boosting competitiveness in the current nuclear sector and by creating a new high-technology sector, that of fusion energy, the euratom programme will lead to growth and new job creation in a wide range of disciplines. last but not least, euratom co-financed research plays an important role in enhancing the safety, resource efficiency and cost-effectiveness of nuclear fission and other industrial and medical uses of radiation, and some of the research projects are key elements in the recently launched european sustainable nuclear energy industrial initiative (esnii).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the framework programme of the european atomic energy community for nuclear research and training activities (2012-2013). the euratom framework programme 2012-2013 covers research activities in the field of nuclear energy (fusion and fusion) and radiation protection, and sets out the instruments for financing and the related budget for direct and indirect actions for research and development activities in this field. nuclear energy will continue to play a strategic role in the union's energy mix and will contribute to the union's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing energy security and diversifying the eu's energy supply. the use of nuclear energy must be subject to strict commitments to the responsible use of nuclear energy, taking into account safety and physical and radiological protection. i believe that the objective of the european sustainable nuclear energy industrial initiative (esnii), which is to achieve by 2035-2040 a fourth generation of fast neutron reactors with a closed fuel cycle, can contribute to diversifying the eu's energy supply sources and to ensuring the safe use of nuclear energy in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-us summit of 28 november 2011. the resolution also calls on the eu to continue to address in its dialogue with the us, both politically and technically, the importance it attaches to the early admission of the four eu member states that remain excluded from the visa waiver programme. in the context of the eu-us summit, i believe that topics such as the agreement on the protection of personal data, standardisation, space policy and cybersecurity are of paramount importance for eu-us cooperation. in the field of cybersecurity, i consider cooperation between the eu and the us on the fight against cybercrime, the standardisation and mutual recognition of electronic signatures to be essential. i welcome the opening of negotiations on an eu-us agreement on personal data protection in march this year. this agreement is necessary for the proper functioning of an eu-us agreement on the passenger name record. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. − maintaining the open and neutral character of the internet as the main driver of innovation and consumer demand is essential. the commission must ensure that internet service providers do not block, discriminate against, impede or reduce the ability of any person to use a service and to access, use, send, publish, receive or offer any content, application or service that they want, regardless of the source or target, the text says. the equal treatment of data traffic on the internet (video, audio or text) is known as net neutrality. eu guidelines are needed to ensure the proper and consistent implementation of the provisions of the telecommunications package on network neutrality. the potential for anti-competitive and discriminatory behaviour in traffic management, especially on the part of vertically integrated undertakings, is worth highlighting. the european executive needs to assess the need for further regulatory measures to ensure freedom of expression, freedom of access to information and freedom of choice for consumers and media pluralism. the commission, together with the body of european regulators for electronic communications and in cooperation with the member states, should monitor the development of traffic management practices and interconnection contracts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the principle of net neutrality is fundamental to the preservation of the innovative nature of the internet, free competition and respect for human rights. in europe we need to have an internet neutral, which allows users to have no conditions limiting access to applications or services. it should also allow anyone developing an application on the internet not to be subject to decisions by internet service providers (isps). i consider that providers of electronic communications networks and providers of internet access services should not impede or delay traffic on their networks, except in certain cases where this is necessary, such as to implement a legal obligation to do so. i argued that member states should initiate effective communication programmes to raise awareness among citizens about net neutrality, as citizens need to be informed about their rights to report abuse. at the same time, i believe that, in addition to the proposals in the commission's communication, monitoring programmes for internet service providers should be developed and penalties implemented in the event of irregularities being identified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i believe that excessive regulation of the internet must be avoided, so as not to hinder the development of this field. at the same time, transparency in the management of traffic by internet service providers should be ensured so that consumers have real information that is useful in their decision-making.
in writing. - dispersion munitions pose serious risks to the civilian population because of the lethal effects they can have. in post-conflict contexts, the use of these munitions has, on many occasions, resulted in serious injury and even death of civilians due to unexploded ordnance, which ends up being found by children or other innocent people. there are many states that still use cluster munitions against civilians. cambodia, thailand and libya are just a few examples. urgent measures are therefore required to ensure the removal of unexploded cluster munitions in order to prevent the killing or injury of others. we now have a convention on cluster munitions, which came into force a little over a year ago, ratified by 111 states. however, all member states that have not yet acceded to the cluster munitions convention need to adopt strict and transparent national measures prior to accession. this includes a moratorium on the use, production and transfer of cluster munitions and the initiation of procedures for the destruction of existing stockpiles of munitions under emergency conditions. the ep's call to the council and the commission to include the banning of ammunition as a standard clause in agreements with third countries is welcome.
in writing. − a viable digital single market could improve competitiveness and boost economic growth in the eu. • it is essential for the development of european smes. trust in electronic transactions needs to be strengthened. at present, only 54% of european internet users buy or sell goods on the virtual marketplace. at the same time, e-commerce has a supporting role for cross-border trade. the removal of all barriers to the use of electronic commerce is important. in particular, fiscal obstacles must be removed. it is necessary to avoid discrimination between the provision of electronic services and the provision of goods. for example, the same vat rate should be applied to both printed and electronic books. my country ranks 10th in the world in terms of quality of internet connection-access ratio. a series of projects to cover the broadband white areas are to be launched, for which eur 84 million in eu funding will be allocated.
in writing. − i have initiated this resolution together with colleagues from other political groups to raise the issue of the inconsistency between the rules applicable to vat on cultural goods sold in physical and electronic form. the eu has adopted the digital agenda, and we have the ambition to develop a digital internal market. this is welcome and is in line with the evolution of european consumer behaviour, which is increasingly buying cultural content (music, newspapers and magazines, books, etc.) on the internet. given that member states have the possibility of applying a reduced rate of vat to physical cultural goods, the objective being to promote access to those goods, i do not see why there should be a different treatment for the same goods sold online, since the objective is exactly the same. so we are talking about an aspect of the vat directive which is obsolete in view of the new consumer trends. i therefore support the revision of the directive to introduce equal tax treatment for these products, regardless of the way they are sold. such developments, together with copyright reform, facilitating the free circulation of audiovisual content online, will contribute to the creation of a genuine digital internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because at eu level we are currently facing certain difficulties in the process of creating the digital single market. these are due to technological, legislative, cultural and linguistic barriers as well as to the consumption taxes that apply to goods and services. all this leads to a marked fragmentation of the market at member state level, which may jeopardise the achievement of our common objectives. i believe it is essential that the european union should allow the application, at least temporarily, of a reduced rate of vat on cultural services supplied by electronic means. this would help european citizens to benefit from more affordable prices for certain online products and services, which would support the sector and increase the eu's competitiveness in this area. at the same time, greater accessibility of cultural goods available online would reduce the high levels of piracy observed in this sector and reduce the financial losses incurred by certain producers or suppliers.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on modernising vat legislation to boost the digital single market. in july 2010, the council adopted directive 2010/45/eu on the common system of vat as regards the rules on invoicing. this directive, which will be transposed by 1 january 2013, establishes new vat rules on electronic invoicing, creating equal treatment of paper invoices and electronic invoices. in addition to vat legislation, e-invoicing is part of a complex of legal requirements, including accounting, audit, personal data protection, archiving and customs rules. it is estimated that applying the same vat rules to both paper and electronic invoices will reduce the administrative burden on businesses by up to eur 18 billion in the medium term. in order to ensure the interoperability of electronic invoices and the interconnection of electronic invoicing models, business partners and service providers should aim at aligning aspects such as risk management, addressing and routing, roaming arrangements, standards, communication tools and security requirements. by the end of the year, cen should propose interoperable addressing and routing procedures in the e-invoicing sector.
in writing. − under the treaty on european union, the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. those values are common to the member states in a society characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men. we need a gender balance in decision-making to be achieved by increasing the representation of women in the leadership structures of parliament, in the offices of political groups, in the offices of committees and delegations, in the composition of delegations and other missions such as election observation, and by representing men in areas where they are under-represented. at the same time, the european parliament committees responsible for the multiannual financial framework and the structural funds should assess the gender impact of the proposed priorities for expenditure, revenue sources and governance instruments before the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, in order to ensure that the post-2013 mff takes gender into account and that all eu-funded programmes include gender equality-related objectives in the basic regulations and allocate specific funds to achieve these objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the integration of the gender perspective in the work of the european parliament. as vice-president responsible for gender mainstreaming in the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism, i believe that an effective information policy is needed, which systematically takes account of gender equality and avoids gender stereotypes. we call on the parliament's committees responsible for the multiannual financial framework and the structural funds to assess the gender impact of the proposed priorities in terms of expenditure, revenue sources and governance instruments, before adopting the multiannual financial framework (mff). this will ensure that the 2014-2020 mff is gender-sensitive and that all eu-funded programmes include gender equality objectives in the core regulations and allocate specific funds to achieve these objectives. we call on the commission to address and prioritise gender inequalities in a more consistent and systematic manner in the design and implementation of all policies and we stress the need to improve gender mainstreaming in all policies in order to achieve the european union's gender equality objectives.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the eu's role in combating illegal fishing worldwide because the commission and the member states need to cooperate to establish a european coast guard to increase monitoring and inspection capacity and effectively combat the dangers at sea, such as terrorism, piracy, illegal fishing, trafficking or even marine pollution. i voted for the amendment which urges the commission to continue its efforts to promote the exchange of information with a view to integrating maritime surveillance and in particular the exchange of information aimed at harmonising coast guard services at european level. the maintenance and development of the european fishing industry depends to some extent on the strict monitoring of illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing activities in fishery products traded on the european and world markets. we underline the importance of this sector for spatial planning, food security, job preservation and conservation of resources in eu waters. the limits that existed in the past in the monitoring, control and surveillance of fisheries activities have been largely overcome thanks to technological advances, including the development of space and satellite communication technologies, and the solution to combating iuu fishing is, first and foremost, the assumption by governments of the political will to act effectively and responsibly.
author. - we are discussing again the human rights situation in iran, which confirms our fears about the tehran government's practice of responding to legitimate citizen grievances with force, abuse and in defiance of international public opinion. the abuses by the iranian authorities are particularly targeting minority groups, whether they are religious groups, journalists, women or human rights defenders. any attempt to structure a responsible civil society, any form of rejection of the methods of governing power in iran are drastically repressed. iran has some answers to the legitimate objections and concerns expressed by the international community regarding the human rights situation. it has chosen to do so by strengthening internal repression, further restricting freedom of expression, other rights and civil liberties. this attitude fully justifies the sanctions imposed by the international community. the power in tehran must show some sense and end the abusive practices that have been going on.
the author. - one minute is far too short to recall the string of human rights violations in iran. it is, as we know, about arbitrary arrests and detentions, unfair trials, torture and degrading treatment, discrimination against various minorities, the death penalty. i'll concentrate on the latter. as you know, the worldwide trend is to abolish the death penalty. several un resolutions call for the introduction of an international moratorium. despite these facts, iran remains the country with the highest proportion of capital punishment, relative to the number of citizens. often, these executions are carried out in secret. various reports indicate more than 300 secret executions for the past year. sometimes minors are the victims of these executions. i would also like to join my colleague in calling for the immediate release of pastor youcef nadarkhani, who is accused of apostasy because he converted to christianity at the age of 19. in conclusion, i believe that the human rights dialogue between the european union and iran must be resumed in order to address the issue of the death penalty and other human rights violations.
on behalf of the epp group. iran is one of the few countries in the 21st century where citizens are brought before a court and forced to choose between their faith and life. this is the statement made by human rights watch regarding pastor nadarkhani, sentenced to death by hanging. the report of the united nations commission on human rights of november 4 says: "the high number of executions, including public and stoning, the use of torture, the cruelty of punishments such as amputation, arbitrary arrests, unfair trials, discrimination, and the drastic limitation of freedom of expression and association are all warnings that urgently need to be heeded. i regret the decision of the foreign affairs council on monday to postpone the tightening of sanctions on iran. it takes more courage, a clear and consistent message. we don't negotiate respect for human rights.
i want to draw attention today to camp ashraf, located in iraq, which is sheltering 3,400 iranian dissidents, living in extremely difficult conditions. the united nations recently declared that these persons must be protected internationally from persecution in their own country and called for their fundamental rights to be respected. however, the iraqi prime minister has said he wants the camp closed by the end of this year, creating a very serious humanitarian situation. in this context, the appointment of a european union representative responsible for camp ashraf is a positive signal. that is why i believe that he must be involved in order to obtain a delay in the terms of dismantling the camp until the refugees can be safely transferred to third countries. the united nations high commissioner for refugees also has the responsibility to administer the process of rapid reintegration and to guarantee protection for these persons. the only possible solution to the situation of iranian asylum seekers in the ashraf area is a peaceful one.
on behalf of the epp group. blogger alaa abdel fatah is one of the approximately 12,000 civilians tried by military courts since the beginning of the revolution in egypt. he was arrested following a peaceful protest by coptic christians on october 9, which sparked the most violent act by military authorities against civilians since the fall of the mubarak regime. twenty-five people were killed and 300 more were injured. the commission and the council must call on the egyptian authorities to stop the trial of civilians by military courts, to release immediately all political and prisoners of conscience, and to ensure a serious and independent investigation into the violence in maspero following the peaceful demonstration for the rights of coptic christians. we all have to make sure that the beginning of the revolution in egypt and the revolution in egypt leads to a real democracy.
together we applauded the changes in egypt this spring, we stood in solidarity with those who, in the heart of the egyptian capital, fought for democracy and freedom. unfortunately, we have to say that the changes in egypt are minimal, that the methods and abuses are still present, that the military rules by force and ignores the objections of the international community. we have seen in the last two months an increase in internal violence in egypt, violence that has also affected religious minority groups, such as the coptic christians. according to figures presented by egyptian human rights activists, more than 12,000 civilians have appeared before military courts since the fall of the mubarak regime, raising serious questions about egypt's democratization process. this is the situation of alaa abdel fatah, who refused to be investigated by the military justice, which he accuses of bias. i join those who have called for the release of alaa abdel fatah and all those like him. we also demand that the right to a fair trial be guaranteed in a civil court, with due respect for all procedural rights. i think we need to watch more closely what's happening in egypt to make sure that this kind of abuse stops.
we also discussed the human rights situation in egypt in the previous plenary session. we're doing it now. this was also emphasized by the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights last week when it said, and i quote: 'the shrinking space for freedom of expression and association in egypt is extremely worrying.' i join those calling for the immediate release of alaa abdel fatah, a dissident blogger against the mubarak regime, who is in detention today. he was detained and will be tried by a military court for daring to criticize the actions of the security forces during the maspero protests. the lines written by alaa abdel fatah in cell 19 of bab el-khalek prison, i think, sums up the absurdity of the situation very well. i quote again: "after the egyptian revolution, i didn't expect to find myself in mubarak's prisons". as my colleagues have requested, i believe that the arrest and presentation of such detainees to military courts must cease. that's not democracy.
if we look at regimes that flagrantly violate human rights, one might say that alaa abdel fatah's situation is not that serious. but egypt wants to become a democracy. and that requires that the fundamental principles be respected in every situation. in a true democracy, civilians are not brought before military courts. it may seem like a small thing, but it's not. if accepted and treated lightly, such exceptions can open the way to any slip-up. the egyptian military played a major role in the overthrow of mubarak's regime. but now they have an even more important task: to fulfill their responsibilities, thus laying the foundations for a true democracy. clarifying the violent incidents against coptic christians is also an important aspect of this process.
we are, of course, looking forward to the new measures that the european council will take - there is a lot of talk about this. i fully agree with what commissioner rehn said, namely that the credibility of the european union, of all the actors in the european union, depends very much on how we implement the decisions that have been taken. but here, unfortunately, things are not going so well. for example, the european financial stability facility: the decision taken in october to increase the commitments of this facility is not happening. we also have not had very good news about the negotiations between the private creditors and the greek government, with the private creditors' commitment to reduce the public debt by 50%. the implementation of the decisions we have taken must therefore be carried out with the utmost rigour, because the credibility of the european union, the credibility of the euro, also depends on it. i would certainly be glad if, by the end of this year, we could have a communication from the european commission on how these decisions are being implemented.
in writing. the next european council will also discuss the extension of the schengen area to romania and bulgaria. the two countries have fully implemented the provisions of the schengen acquis and thus fulfil all the necessary criteria for entry into the european area of free movement. the merger must take place as soon as possible. unfortunately, the netherlands is the only country which, without any reason based on european legislation, has a negative position. i believe that this situation must be clarified at the next european council. the council must assess this situation in the light of european law and treaties and take a decision to forward to the european ministers of justice and home affairs. the jha council in december must do what is necessary to ensure that the two countries receive what they deserve by meeting all the requirements.
in writing. the european council of 9 december 2011 will focus on the economic situation in the eu, the member states' debt crisis and increased convergence within the euro area, as well as on elements related to the completion of the internal market and the implementation of the digital agenda. but european leaders should take urgent action to boost growth and create jobs. in this context, measures to increase energy efficiency, complete the internal energy market and develop energy infrastructure are becoming extremely important for energy security and the balance of the eu's trade balance. the european council should analyse the results of the stress tests carried out on nuclear power stations in different member states and adopt decisions to increase the safety of european nuclear reactors. the development of transport and communication infrastructure and information technology is also essential for the completion of the internal market and for the economic and social development of the eu. all these measures for growth and job creation should be linked and supported by the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i welcome the inclusion on the agenda of the december european council of an item on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, as well as the signing of the treaty of accession of croatia to the eu.
we welcome the accession of croatia to the european union. i believe that the accession of croatia will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region. croatia is responsible, together with bavaria, for implementing priority 6 on biodiversity conservation and, together with baden-württemberg, for coordinating priority 8 - business competitiveness. it is also necessary for croatia, as a member state, to contribute to the development of the trans-european transport network, as croatia has a very important role in the extension of the trans-european transport infrastructure with the transport infrastructure of the balkan region.
the european union is currently experiencing perhaps the most difficult period in its history, when the willingness to cooperate and the solidarity have in many cases been replaced by mistrust and inward-looking attitudes. i welcome the fact that the commission and the member states have remained committed to croatia's accession even in these difficult times. without the integration of the western balkan states, a united europe cannot be complete. however, the accession of these states makes it inevitable that the problems of indigenous national minorities will be addressed at european level. that's the question we have to face. the integration of the western balkans can only succeed if the minority issue is not swept under the carpet. i am convinced that croatia will not follow the path of those member states which ignored their pre-accession promises on the protection of minorities.
in writing. i welcome the report by mr hannes swoboda, which has also been received with great enthusiasm by my colleagues in the european parliament. after six years of negotiations, eight years since the application to become a member state and twenty years since independence, accession negotiations with croatia were concluded in june this year. respect for human rights and the fight against corruption have been the main topics of negotiations over the past year, and the acceleration of reforms in this regard has been visible since mid-2009. croatia is ready for accession, but needs to address remaining challenges such as those in the legal system, step up efforts to prosecute war criminals, continue structural reforms in the economy, encourage fiscal consolidation to boost competitiveness and stimulate employment by revitalizing the labour market. members of the european parliament, together with myself, have given a clear signal that we want croatia within the european union, and croats will also have the opportunity to express their support for the european union through a referendum. we hope that we will receive croatian observers in the european parliament as soon as possible.
in writing. – the report ‘application of croatia to become a member of the european union’ welcomes the conclusion of the accession negotiations with croatia. however, crucial challenges remain to be properly addressed in order to ensure the sustainability of the reforms introduced by the croatian authorities during the accession process in the fields of the judiciary, anti-corruption and confiscation of illegally or unjustified gained assets. croatia must pursue the full implementation of the reforms adopted. moreover, the country still needs to establish a convincing track record of recruiting and appointing judges and state prosecutors based on transparent, objective and merit-based criteria. a track record of convictions in high-level political corruption and fraud cases is also needed. finally, transparency and integrity in public administration need to be further strengthened as well as depolitisation and professionalism in the police. adopting and implementing the crime of illicit enrichment is also needed in croatia. these issues must remain top priorities on the political agenda of croatia under the supervision of the commission.
in writing. – in light of several factors that will be explained below, i am in favour of croatia’s accession to the european union. considering croatia’s eight-year path since first submitting its application for accession, the commission’s monitoring of its progress in meeting the requirements and its subsequent approval, it is fitting that croatia will be prepared to assume accession in 2013. in spite of its accomplishments, the croatian government still has some challenges ahead. it is crucial that reforms are embraced in order to meet the copenhagen criteria, in addition to better integrating itself in the framework of democratic values upheld by the european union. the challenges include, but are not limited to the judicial and economic realms, especially with regard to the implementation of anti-corruption measures, the prosecution of war criminals and its ability to absorb eu funds. nonetheless, it is worthwhile to mention that croatia has a higher gdp than seven existing eu member states. from an economic standpoint, croatia’s plans for accession are welcomed.
in writing. the adoption of the swoboda report is a historic moment for the european parliament, as it opens the way to the effective accession of croatia, which will soon become the 28th member state of the union. as croatia's accession is imminent and as we all want it to be a success, we must insist on the need for this country to continue implementing reforms in line with the european commission's recommendations. i would like to return to some of the points which i consider essential, which were the substance of amendments which i tabled and which were adopted in the afet committee. croatia has made considerable progress in judicial reform, but it needs to address remaining challenges in this area, in particular to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary and to apply the provisions on the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. croatia's determination to fight corruption is commendable. however, we must at the same time encourage the authorities to continue their efforts to improve the record of solving cases of organised crime and corruption. finally, croatia can play an important role in promoting european values (peace, freedom, rule of law and democracy) in the region. the declaration adopted by the croatian government in july 2011 to this effect should therefore be welcomed.
in writing. at a time when the union is going through multiple convulsions caused by economic difficulties, i believe that the news of the conclusion of the negotiation process and the prospect of croatia's accession to the eu in july 2013 is a moment of satisfaction - satisfaction for the croatian people, involved in this long process that began in 2004, but also for the ep, a consistent promoter of croatia's accession. i hope that the accession treaty will be adopted tomorrow in the ep by a strong majority, as this state's accession will contribute to building a stronger, richer union and help maintain the credibility of the accession process. croatia's accession to the eu will have european and regional implications and will give a positive boost to the european integration process. at the same time, the accession of croatia is evidence of the union's commitment to the western balkans. this commitment will be materialised depending on the political will and reform efforts of the candidate countries in the region. today, with the memory of my country's accession to the eu still fresh in my mind, it seems important to me to remind my croatian friends here in the ep that this moment is only the beginning of the difficult process of european integration. i can assure you that you can count on our solidarity!
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for the constructive and substantive debate that the excellent report by mr berès has launched. i would like to conclude this debate by making three comments. firstly, the commission is ready to listen to the european parliament whenever and especially when it has a vote in due time. i hope that the european parliament will find a natural way of debating and expressing its views in time for the 2012 annual growth survey, so that it can influence the decision-making process not only of the commission but also of the member states. this is very important from the point of view of democratic acceptability, that is, democratic legitimacy, which the rapporteur, mr berès, and many speakers have rightly and properly emphasized this evening. for example, i listened to rep. takkula, who stressed the importance of education. we cannot cover all the policy areas every year, but education is so important, both in terms of competitiveness and productivity, and therefore in terms of employability, that it must be given special attention and it is worth considering also in the context of this annual growth report. education is of course crucial not only for economic growth and employment but also for the development needs of humanity in general, and in this sense it is a very fundamental value for european society. my second comment to mr hübner, who referred to the lack of comparative rural surveys. in fact, if you read this 2012 growth report carefully, there is both a comparative part of it between member states and a part at the level of the union, which looks very closely at what measures have been recommended to the member states and also what measures all member states should take to implement the common european decisions, for example, in the area of the services directive or equally in the area of energy and trade policy. so i agree with you, this is already partly covered here and we will confirm this dimension in future reports. thirdly, mr president, some members have suggested that this european steering group would be a useless and bureaucratic instrument and that we should concentrate solely on putting out the fire and overcoming the crisis. i agree, of course, that we must do everything we can to overcome the crisis and to save economic growth and employment, but i also disagree that this european steering group is useless in this respect, quite the contrary. it is very important to see this european semester as an instrument both for creating the conditions for economic growth in the long term and for strengthening economic stability in the short term. these recommendations, which were made in the context of the european semester, for example this year, have had an impact on the member states' actions and in that sense they have already made their contribution. in conclusion, i would like to say that it is clear that the growth of the european economy is not to be achieved by excessive concentration but by strengthening entrepreneurship, by enhancing people's skills and their capacity for innovation and, in general, by unleashing people's creative energies into entrepreneurship and knowledge and, therefore, into productive work. this is the purpose of the european semester, in other words, the aim of both fiscal and structural policies is to create the conditions for entrepreneurship, knowledge, innovation and productive work in general, which will help to strengthen the foundations for economic growth and employment in europe. and so this european semester is very directly linked to strengthening economic growth and thereby employment in europe, and it is ultimately the most important and decisive for our citizens.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? i listened to this debate with great interest. i think that such discussions are necessary, first of all, to increase understanding of the whole process and the european semester. what's he for? the european semester is not an instrument to provide an immediate solution to the problems of the current crisis. it is an instrument designed to be part of long-term economic cooperation within the european union, to strengthen the way in which union priorities are translated and coordinated by all member states and to strengthen the transmission of those priorities, as defined at union level, to national parliaments, i.e. to those institutions which ultimately take most of the decisions affecting the actual implementation of union priorities. i think we have to remember that. i think the whole process is based on the community institutions at the moment. there were voices in the chamber saying that there were concerns that we were moving away from the community method, that elements were being introduced that were not provided for in the treaty, that the dictates of individual member states were emerging. but please note that the whole process is based from the outset on drafts prepared by the european commission, on discussions in the council and at european council level, on documents adopted within the eu institutions. so in my opinion the community method is preserved. and the most important part of the process, and one that many member states have pointed out is that the final decision is left to the sovereign national parliaments. we have to remember that and take care of it. the removal of this sovereignty from the european parliaments in budgetary decisions is not accepted by virtually any member state. there is no such option. in discussing the european semester, its evaluation after the first year of operation, and the further changes that are being made to the functioning of the european semester, we should focus on how to increase and strengthen this message to the european parliaments. how can national parliaments be more involved in the discussion of priorities that improve the efficiency of the european union as a whole? but all of this depends on improving the efficiency of the functioning of individual member states. we already know from experience that it is not possible to build the european union's increased competitiveness on the basis of just a few member states. we all have to go in the same direction. the appropriate pace for each member state should be found. not everyone can lift the same weight at the same time. but what the european commission does, by preparing its annual growth survey, is to give an indication of the direction in which the union should develop in the near future. this is then translated into individual recommendations for the member states and checked to see if they are reflected in the national reform programmes and then in the national budgets. this is the element that we have been missing: the signal was sent from brussels, from the european institutions, to the capitals and that was really the end of it. we haven't had a feedback in the decision-making process yet on how this is going to be taken into account. so this is a huge value addition to the whole process and that's what we should be focusing on. i find many interesting ideas in mrs berès' report, particularly on how the european parliament and the other eu institutions could be involved in the process of involving national parliaments in the decision-making process and showing them that they too have a direct responsibility for the implementation of the eu priorities that serve our common good: increasing and sustaining economic growth in the member states and improving competitiveness throughout the european union.
in writing. the economic crisis has shown that better tools are needed to correct macroeconomic imbalances. the 'economic governance semester' is designed to assess national economic and fiscal policies at european level before they are adopted. it would provide a structural framework for the coordination of budgetary and economic policies of the member states, in line with the stability and growth pact and the eu 2020 strategy. the economic crisis has led to an increase in macroeconomic imbalances and competitiveness gaps following the introduction of the euro. this has led to the need for the union to tackle them on the basis of a symmetrical approach that would target both deficits and excessive surpluses. the enhanced framework for economic governance should be based on different interlinked policies aimed at sustainable growth and jobs that are coherent with each other, in particular a union strategy for growth and jobs. experience in recent years has highlighted the need for improved economic governance in the union, which should be based on a stronger national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and a stronger framework for the supervision of national economic policies at union level.
in writing. there has been a lot of talk in european and national contexts about the economic and financial crisis and its effects, the sovereign debt and public deficit crisis, job losses and the precariousness of existing jobs. but too little was done: half-hearted decisions were made and the euro area member states in difficulty were looked at with an eye of blame, as responsible for the domino effect on the union's overall economic situation. however, it must be acknowledged that the crisis we are facing, the most serious in the last seven decades, has been created by certain weaknesses in the economic and monetary union and by the structural problems of the euro area countries, particularly in terms of their differences in competitiveness, as jacques delors rightly pointed out recently. member states should therefore consider economic and fiscal policies as a matter of common concern and should seek to strengthen macroeconomic coordination in the framework of the european semester. for the european project to advance the ideals of democracy, peace and economic prosperity, it must be credible and backed by the pillars of truly effective economic stabilisation policies.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has led to an accentuation of inequalities and macroeconomic imbalances. the recently concluded first 'european semester' highlighted the need for the european union to tackle these issues on the basis of a symmetrical approach based on more democratic legitimacy and interconnected policies at european level, aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. regional policy will continue to play a particularly important role in the development of national programmes in the european semester and at the same time will be a key instrument for achieving the medium and long-term objectives set. a strong and well-funded cohesion policy can prevent future economic and financial crises in europe and protect the less developed regions in particular. it is also very important to involve local and regional partners in achieving the objectives of the european union, taking into account the characteristics and different levels of development of the 271 european regions. this will lead to a greater ownership of the strategy objectives at all levels and ensure a better awareness of the objectives and results on the ground.
i welcome the discussion of this report in the context of the changing global economic balance. cooperation with developing countries, which currently have a major trade influence, should therefore be encouraged. i would stress the relevance of paragraph 5 of the report. today, the union's trading relations need to be geographically diversified. europe's partnerships need to take account of the challenges of the present. for example, making financial aid conditional on meeting environmental requirements. i would point out that developing countries with economic potential are lacking in this area. their contribution to the implementation of treaties such as the kyoto protocol is therefore essential. furthermore, these states must ensure compliance with the legislation developed by the international labour organisation. rapid economic development can lead to abuses and violations of fundamental rights.
in writing. i welcome the agreement reached following the conciliation procedure between parliament and the council on the regulation establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide. the agreed changes bring greater flexibility to the use of european funds for the promotion of human rights in the world by making the expenditure on taxes and duties paid by beneficiaries of these funds eligible in special cases. such flexibility could lead to increased efficiency of those funds and unlocking funding for programmes and projects in third countries. however, it is important that this eligibility is granted on a case-by-case basis and not in an automatic manner, in order to eliminate any abuse. equally important, the revision of this regulation also contributes to greater coherence of the european union in terms of the instruments for financing its external policy, bearing in mind that the european instrument for democracy and human rights was, along with the development cooperation instrument, the only instrument that did not provide for any exception to the principle of ineligible expenditure on taxes and duties.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as we have pointed out on several occasions, the relaunch of the single market is not only the remit of the european institutions. the solutions have to emerge from a broader dialogue with all relevant stakeholders: consumers, enterprises, national authorities, social partners, judges and so on. this was the aim of the single market forum in krakow and it was a success. as a member of the internal market and consumer protection committee, i must say that participation in the forum was a very valuable experience. the participants engaged in a very constructive dialogue, which gave us a useful insight into what they consider to be the priorities for the future development of the single market. there is one thing that came out of the forum which i consider to be extremely important. the majority of citizens, and sometimes even some of us, consider the single market legislation to be very technical. sometimes, this is very true, but i was very happy to see that the forum attracted citizens who came to tell their own stories in relation to the single market. this clearly shows that the single market is firstly about citizens, about normal people who unfortunately experience difficulties in enjoying their rights. i would like to thank the polish presidency for their full commitment to the single market and for taking the krakow declaration to the competitiveness council. now, if this forum is to make any difference, we – and here i mean the commission, the council and the european parliament – need to prove that we take into account the priorities outlined in the krakow declaration and that we have the political will to come up with efficient solutions and also to implement them. we have to understand that legislation cannot be efficient without correct and timely implementation at the national level. i strongly believe that the single market forum is an excellent initiative that ought to be continued in future, and that this is the way forward in order to progressively eliminate the remaining barriers and to bring our citizens closer to the single market. this is why i firmly support the idea of setting up a single market forum online, which could be a permanent platform for dialogue with all stakeholders. i also believe that next year we should mark the 20th anniversary of the single market by organising decentralised events in all member states, as was already proposed. last but not least, i would like to thank all those who worked hard for the organisation of the single market forum. i want to congratulate the commission, especially commissioner dalli and commissioner barnier, the parliament and the polish presidency and all the citizens, enterprises, ngos and other stakeholders who contributed to the success of this first single market forum.
the role of the single market is crucial for europe's exit from economic stagnation in the context of the current crisis. at the same time, effective monitoring of the implementation of the single market rules is a prerequisite for its success. it is necessary for member states to step up their efforts to transpose union rules. according to the latest internal market scoreboard, my country is among the ten countries that have improved their performance in implementing european legislation. with an average delay of 2.8 months in transposing legislation after the deadline, romania ranks fourth in this chapter. it is important for the union to encourage cooperation between european, national, regional and local officials in order to make the implementation of european rules more efficient.
strengthening the single market requires: worker mobility and recognition of professional qualifications, the development of electronic commerce and the development of a european network of single points of sale. in order to recognise professional qualifications, i support the forum's proposal for a european professional card, which would facilitate transnational mobility of workers within the european union and simplify the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications. the social partners, in particular trade unions, play an important role in protecting posted workers and in respecting their rights. the development of e-commerce requires that the confidence of both consumers and businesses, and in particular smes, in the use of electronic means is strengthened. for the development of the digital single market, we look forward to the commission's proposals on the mutual recognition of electronic signatures and electronic identity. we also believe that it is necessary to update european legislation on the protection of personal data.
i have long wanted to use this occasion to discuss the relationship between the european union and turkey, particularly in the context of the debate on the country report. i believe that turkey has made remarkable progress in recent times and i encourage the turkish authorities to continue on the path of european integration, to continue the efforts they are making and, despite many things that need to be improved, i hope that the tone of the country report will be positive. there are, however, some obstacles that the european union places in the way of its relationship with turkey, especially as regards the freedom to provide services. the visa requirement for turkish service providers is clearly a burden and perhaps even an obstacle if a visa is not granted. some member states also impose transport quotas on turkish trains, which is a clear obstacle to the free movement of goods and therefore a breach of the ankara agreement. as we are asking turkey to make substantial efforts, i believe that the european union should also take consistent measures that do not go against the spirit of the agreement and the customs union.
i am returning to the subject of the mobility of romanian and bulgarian workers, because today i held a debate on this subject in the presence of the romanian minister for labour, and i also condemn the fact that the netherlands and the united kingdom have decided to extend these restrictions. obtaining a work permit is often a real mission impossible because of the excessively demanding, almost impossible conditions imposed for obtaining it. they discourage employers, who even reject applications from romanian and bulgarian workers. it is a de facto discrimination between european citizens on the basis of nationality, thus violating the treaty. while israel and iceland are lifting restrictions on romanians and bulgarians, eu countries are extending them. it makes me wonder what will become of european unity, especially in these crucial ten days for the eurozone.
i wanted to speak to welcome the resolution of the 30th session of the baltic assembly, which took place in estonia a few days ago. i would like to point out that, from a parliamentary point of view, romania fully supports this resolution and i am convinced that all the states of eastern europe will follow the same course. the eastern european countries will continue to have the lowest level of direct payments in the european union under the future common agricultural policy. the baltic states' demand, which romanian meps fully share, is for the union to establish a system of direct payments in agriculture that would ensure truly fair and equitable conditions of competition for all farmers in the european union. the rules on the distribution of direct payments should avoid significant differences between the highest and the lowest level of direct payments in the union. also, in the case of romania and bulgaria, an advance alignment is needed for the years 2014 and 2015, when payments are not yet at 100%.
romania is a national state, sovereign and independent, unitary and indivisible. i am proud to be romanian and i wish happy birthday! to romania and romanians on the national day of romania. the conference on the revision of the ten-t network was held in antwerp yesterday and today. the commission recently adopted the regulation on the definition of the core and extended network for trans-european transport and the connecting europe facility. given the lag in the development of transport infrastructure, i argue that the new member states should have as many metropolitan areas, industrial centres and ports as possible in the ten-t core network. for example, the conurbation of galați-brăila-măcin should become a main node of the core network. industrial cluster, this conurbation has access to three ports, two of which are on the danube and provides the danube link to the port of constanta and the black sea. it is therefore necessary to develop a multimodal terminal here. as this conurbation is on the border with the republic of moldova and ukraine, it will allow the integration of the trans-european transport system with that of the union's neighbouring countries.
with the new health law, the romanian government wants to privatize hospitals and the entire health system. these are measures that will practically condemn millions of romanians to death. the role of public health is to save lives, not to make a profit. in romania, 46% of the population lives in rural areas, while only 9% of doctors work in the countryside; of these, about 97% are family doctors. the rural population has no access to specialized medical services, and many hospitals have been closed down in the last year. turning hospitals into corporations is the equivalent of denying access to health care to a lot of people. the majority of the romanian population still has low incomes. privatizing hospitals would mean that over 15 million romanians would not be treated for lack of money.
we have recently started an information campaign on the absorption of european funds for local and regional public authorities as well as for the business community in romania. it seems that a lot of people know about this opportunity for development based on grants, but most of them don't know what the next steps are. unfortunately, there is often a lack of co-financing. so, at the moment, the resources allocated by the european union might be more favourable. but the hardest and most common reason why absorption is limited at the moment is bureaucracy, from the european commission down to the final eligible beneficiary. i therefore ask the european commission, together with the european parliament, to draw up simpler and easier rules for all eligible beneficiaries, so that development on the basis of grants is easier.
mr president when the slovak government made a provision that slovak citizens who take up the citizenship of another state lose their slovak citizenship, we drew attention to the contradiction of this law. now, i'd like to draw your attention to a specific case. olivér boldogi was born a slovak citizen of hungarian nationality, but was deprived of slovak citizenship against his will after he took the citizenship of neighboring hungary. the slovak state wants to intimidate its own citizens from committing themselves to a community with their nation, to which their language and culture bind them. in the europe of nations, the borders of nations do not coincide with the borders of states in most cases. we must do everything we can to ensure that this does not cause tensions between the states. we must seek mutually satisfactory solutions based on the needs of citizens. slovakia is not on that path at the moment.
in writing. with the number of people living with hiv increasing both in europe (2.2 million in 2009), and globally (34 million people living with hiv, up 17% on a decade ago), it is time for the european executive to seriously examine its strategy for preventing the spread of the disease. the statistics now available show that this increase in the number of patients is the result of two different trends: the continued expansion of the number of people infected with hiv and the increase in the life expectancy of those affected by the disease as a result of the discovery of new treatments and medicines. in these circumstances, the european executive needs to examine both the strategic lines of action for preventing the spread of hiv infection, with a view to making the social and health policies implemented at this level more effective, and the policies for investing in research, prevention, treatment and support of the sick, with a view to spreading good practices and european models.
president of the european central bank. − madam president, i am delighted to be making my first appearance here as president of the ecb and i am honoured to present to you the ecb annual report for 2010. the first thing i wish to do is pay homage to my predecessor jean-claude trichet. during all his tenure he had a very fruitful and very constructive dialogue with the european parliament and i intend to continue on this route with the same force, the same strength that he displayed. today’s session is an opportunity for us to take a wider perspective on ecb policies. in that way, i will also touch on a number of the broader themes of the resolution of the european parliament. let me begin with a few words on the main monetary policy decisions we have taken and the challenges we have faced during 2010 and 2011. as you know, the ecb’s monetary policy is constantly guided by the goal of maintaining price stability in the euro area over the medium term. and when i say this, i mean price stability in either direction. this applies to both the setting of official interest rates and the implementation of non-standard measures. this autumn, tensions in financial markets have intensified again with very adverse effects on financing conditions and confidence. downside risks to the economic outlook have increased. the weaker degree of activity is itself moderating price, cost and wage pressures. it is in this context that the ecb decided to reduce its key interest rates by 25 basis points in early november 2011. dysfunctional government bond markets in several euro area countries hamper the single monetary policy because the way this policy is transmitted to the real economy depends also on the conditions of the bond markets in the various countries. an impaired transmission mechanism for monetary policy has a damaging effect on the availability and price of credit to firms and households. this is the very important monetary policy reason for the ecb’s non-standard measures. but of course, such interventions can only be limited. governments must – individually and collectively – restore their credibility vis-à-vis financial markets. tensions in sovereign bond markets have been accompanied by stress in the banking sector given the financial interlinkages between governments and banks. the ecb has taken several measures in 2010 and 2011 to ensure that banks continue to have access to funding sources. this has enabled them to continue lending to firms and households. most importantly, the ecb has extended its policy of fully allotting liquidity demanded by banks at fixed rates against collateral. the maximum maturity of these liquidity-providing operations was first extended to six months and then later to 12 and 13 months. a new covered bond purchase programme has recently been initiated, with a size of eur 40 billion. in addition, liquidity in us dollars has been offered to banks for three-month periods. yesterday, in a globally coordinated action with the federal reserve, the bank of japan, the bank of england, the bank of canada and the swiss national bank, we have agreed to lower the price on us dollar provision in other constituencies including the euro area. we have furthermore agreed, as a contingency measure, to establish temporary bilateral liquidity swap arrangements so that liquidity can be provided in each jurisdiction in any of the currencies, should market conditions so warrant. as the ecb’s governing council meets on thursday next week, we are now in the pre-decision period, and nothing that i say should in any way be interpreted in terms of future monetary policy decisions. but as far as the current situation is concerned, there is frankly not much more to say beyond what i have said in recent statements. we are aware of the continuing difficulties for banks due to the stress on sovereign bonds, the tightness of funding markets and the scarcity of eligible collateral in some financial segments. we are also aware of the problems of maturity mismatches on balance sheets, the challenges of raising levels of capital and the cyclical risks related to the downturn. let me now turn to the overall functioning of europe’s economic and monetary union. looking back at 2010 and 2011, notable progress has been achieved in reinforcing economic governance – though i recognise that this may not be evident in times of crisis. the european parliament has contributed decisively to that progress, and the ecb commends its work. the ‘six-pack’, the european semester, the euro plus pact: all these initiatives have set the stage for closer coordination and more intensive scrutiny of economic policies in the eu, particularly in the euro area. yet we are at a difficult stage at present. we have set up these new mechanisms, but their positive effects on the credibility of government fiscal policies are not yet visible. and the government changes that have taken place in some of the more exposed countries have not yet had much of an effect on the continuing fragility of financial markets. fundamental questions are being raised and they call for an answer. at the heart of these questions are not only the credibility of governments’ policies and the actual delivery of the promised reforms, but also the overall design of our common fiscal governance. i am confident that the new surveillance framework will restore confidence over time. i am also quite sure that countries overall are on the right track. but a credible signal is needed to give ultimate assurance over the short term. what i believe our economic and monetary union needs is a new fiscal compact – a fundamental restatement of the fiscal rules together with the mutual fiscal commitments that euro area governments have made. just as we effectively have a compact that describes the essence of monetary policy – an independent central bank with a single objective of maintaining price stability – so a fiscal compact would enshrine the essence of fiscal rules and the government commitments taken so far, and ensure that the latter become fully credible, individually and collectively. we might be asked whether a new fiscal compact would be enough to stabilise markets and how a credible longer-term vision can be helpful in the short term. our answer is that it is definitely the most important element to start restoring credibility. other elements might follow, but the sequencing matters. and it is first and foremost important to get a commonly shared fiscal compact right. confidence works backwards: if there is an anchor in the long term, it is easier to maintain trust in the short term. after all, investors are themselves often taking decisions with a long-term horizon, especially with regard to government bonds. a new fiscal compact would be the most important signal from euro area governments for embarking on a path of comprehensive deepening of economic integration. it would also present a clear trajectory for the future evolution of the euro area, thus framing expectations. on the precise legal process that brings about a move towards a genuine economic union, we should keep our options open. far-reaching treaty changes should not be discarded, but faster processes are also conceivable. whatever the approach, companies, markets and the citizens of europe expect policy-makers to act decisively to resolve the crisis. it is time to adapt the euro area design with a set of institutions, rules and processes that is commensurate with the requirements of monetary union.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament, mr draghi. i would first like to thank my colleague, mr tremosa, for his very good cooperation on this matter. in the current context of financial instability, the role of the central bank is virtually fundamental. the actions it has taken to respond to the turbulence in the financial markets are, however, still not enough in my view. but the bank's independence must be maintained, and it must become, as you said, a lender of last resort for the euro area countries, acting to fight against speculation, to combat the worsening crisis. in effect, by assuming its role as central bank, it would contribute significantly to increasing confidence in the soundness of the euro area architecture. at the same time, a strengthened role for the european central bank must be complemented by, i would say, radical measures such as the issuing of common euro area bonds, the harmonisation of member states' taxation and the strengthening of the european financial stability facility. in this respect, i welcome the commission's proposal of 23 november for the issuing of common euro-area bonds. i think the member states must understand that this issue is necessary for the stability of the financial markets and that everyone has a stake in a solution based on solidarity. this would effectively reduce the total cost of debt and guarantee liquidity in european financial markets. finally, i would like to say one thing, and i really believe it: the european currency cannot function without fiscal union, which is essentially a complement to monetary union.
we must thank the rapporteurs who, in extremely difficult circumstances, with virtually no possibility of negotiation, have succeeded in achieving the european parliament's objectives as far as possible. we must also be satisfied that there is a budget, that we have reached an agreement on the budget. in this time of crisis, i think it was not beneficial to have another budget crisis. this situation was only possible because of the wisdom of parliament, which could block the whole process. unfortunately, i didn't see the same level of wisdom at the council. we have now gone through the budgetary procedure under the lisbon treaty twice. it was the same thing every time: the council has imposed the figures on payments and has not accepted any negotiation, which is not normal at all. i do not think that this procedure of saying the figures and then distributing them to european politicians is the normal procedure. i think we should do the opposite: first we see the needs and then we calculate the budget. each time, the council issued a declaration committing itself to accepting the budget amendment if the amounts required for payments could not be reached. he didn't keep his word, you see what happened with the budget amendment number six and i don't know if he'll do it next year. we cannot continue in this way, because we do not trust the figures put on the table by the commission. two very important procedures are coming up next year: the 2013 budget and the mff. if we go through the exact same procedure, i don't think it's going to be good for the european union.
i voted for this report because we must maintain the stability of the financial markets. europe needs to have an appropriate economic policy framework, limiting public sector debt. i welcome the proactive stance of the european central bank during the crisis. it is, however, important that the assessment methods used are made public. it would also be appropriate for the ecb to provide better information on the funds of euro area central banks. i support the establishment of a macroprudential oversight of the financial system. it must take account of differences between euro-area and non-euro-area member states. i would point out, however, that a constructive and balanced approach is needed from the bank towards all the countries of the european union. the ecb must use its instruments, including the printing of money, responsibly.
i voted in favour of this report because the signing of the accession treaty is an important moment for croatia and i want stability in the balkans. the european perspective is thus becoming a reality and the reform effort is being rewarded. but i say from my own experience that this moment does not represent the end of the process. reforms in the justice system and the fight against corruption, as well as measures to privatise shipyards, as called for by the european commission, must be continued. however, i would point out that there is a need for an objective assessment of the progress made by croatia, provided that the cooperation and verification mechanism is maintained for romania and bulgaria. public information is also important to ensure the success of the ratification process. at the same time, the accession of croatia is a good opportunity to campaign in all member states to remind us of the benefits of the union.
i voted in favour of this report because the european union must tackle macroeconomic imbalances on the basis of a symmetrical approach. closer coordination of economic policies in the member states is essential, especially in times of recession. but it takes responsibility and courage on the part of governments to implement the austerity measures needed for economic recovery. the differences in inflation and competitiveness need to be corrected. i would point out that without effective structural measures, europe will only grow by about 1.5% by 2020. at the same time, national budgets must not jeopardise the financial stability of the union as a whole and it is mandatory that the european budget and the budgets of the member states be harmonised. the euro plus pact, to which my country has also joined, will help to improve coordination of economic policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and the european neighbourhood policy. point 27 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the flexibility instrument to be mobilised to finance clearly identified expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available under one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. i support the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance measures for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy under subheading 1a and to finance the european neighbourhood instrument under heading 4 with a total amount of eur 239,42 million. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, the flexibility instrument shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 30,75 million in commitment appropriations in heading 1a and eur 208,67 million in commitment appropriations in heading 4. i call for the union to give greater importance to the eastern partnership and cooperation with the eu's neighbouring states in the danube region in the framework of its neighbourhood policy. the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument highlights the crucial need for the eu budget to be increasingly flexible.
in writing. − i welcome the agreement reached with the council, as it is a relatively balanced one, the result of the long efforts of the parliament and council negotiators. there are a number of positive elements that i fully support, such as the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument under heading 1a to finance measures necessary to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and under heading 4 on eu external action and in particular the eu neighbourhood policy. i believe that in the context of the 'arab spring', the eu needs to financially support these countries in their efforts to rebuild and move towards democracy. as the arab revolutions have shown, economic stability is a basis for political stability, and the eu can contribute to this through financial support. last but not least, i am pleased that this agreement also contains parliament's proposals for funding pilot projects and preparatory actions, including a pilot project to organise an event for young romanian sportsmen in 2013.
in writing. - i would like to start by congratulating my colleague francesca balzani for all the effort she has put into achieving a more than honourable result for the european parliament in extremely difficult circumstances. the european parliament has become the only institution in europe that defends economic growth, that wants to stimulate the economy; and the european budget has become one of the only hopes for the revival of the european economy. right-wing european governments are cutting national budgets, cutting the eu budget, cutting wages, cutting pensions, and wondering why the economy isn't picking up. europe needs investment, not budget cuts, and budget deficits can be financed by the financial sector, which continues to make profits while also being at the origin of the crisis.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in the case of portugal, to provide support for workers in the machine-building industry affected by major changes in the structure of world trade. the application concerns the mobilisation of eur 1 518 456 from the egf in favour of portugal in the event of the redundancies of 726 workers in three undertakings active in the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers. the redundancies took place between 1 july 2010 and 1 april 2011 in two neighbouring regions, norte and centro. the reason for these redundancies is the reduction in demand for new cars in the european union. eu car production fell by 17% in 2009 and by 23% in 2008 compared to the same period in 2007. the decrease in demand for electrical automotive equipment, combined with the inability to further reduce production costs and/or access credit, led to the closure of the lear plant and production unit in guarda and its relocation to morocco. i support the need to mobilise the egf to support workers made redundant. i also believe that the eu must strengthen its industrial policy to prevent european industry from being relocated to third countries.
in writing. − the commission proposal provides that the structural funds may finance expenditure on operations containing contributions to support repayable assistance. the document also clarifies that the assistance reimbursed to the body providing the assistance in the member state is booked separately and reused for the same purpose. i believe that this proposal clarifies the use of all forms of reimbursable assistance at project level and provides significant support for the use of the structural funds. in addition, it provides for a new obligation to incur expenditure in a timely manner (within two years of payment in full) and to report on the financial engineering instruments used. this is a useful tool for monitoring and evaluating the overall performance of these types of support.
in writing. − the financial crisis facing the european union is seriously damaging economic stability. immediate action is needed to continue the absorption of structural funds in certain countries where the pressure on national budgets is continuing to increase. the decision to increase funding for certain countries by 10 points will help to revive national economies and to develop certain regions in difficulty by optimising the use of the structural and cohesion funds. i am pleased that this text was adopted at first reading to help economies suffering under the pressure of the financial crisis.
in writing. − i believe that it is beneficial to provide additional support for regional development projects financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf). my country, romania, is on the list of countries to benefit from the new eu measure, along with hungary, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland. the new regulation adopted provides for a temporary increase of 10 percentage points in the european contribution to community projects. this measure is in favour of the beneficiaries and aims to support the development of poorer regions and those likely to be further affected by the economic and financial crisis. the procedure for granting the increases should be clear and should not lead to an increase in administrative burden, while allowing for a rapid adaptation of the policy to meet the needs of the countries most affected by the crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by danuta hubner on the amendment of regulation 1083/2011 on financial management for certain member states experiencing financial difficulties. hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland were the most affected by the crisis and received financial assistance through the european financial stabilisation mechanism (efsm) for euro area countries, or the balance of payments mechanism for non-euro area countries. the measure adopted is temporary and allows the commission to increase by 10% the co-financing rates applicable during the intervention period of the support mechanisms, without modifying the global funds allocated to these countries under the cohesion policy for the period 2007-2013. the member state concerned shall submit a request to the commission within two months of the date on which the member state fulfils one of the conditions referred to in the regulation. the application shall detail the purpose of using the derogation and provide information on the complementary measures envisaged to concentrate funds for competitiveness, growth and employment, including in relation to the modification of operational programmes. the commission shall have 30 days from the date of submission of the request to object. the regulation will apply retroactively and the measure will cease to apply once the member state leaves the support mechanism.
in writing. − according to statistics presented by the european commission earlier this year, more than six million young europeans are leaving the education and training system. they face obstacles in finding stable employment, with their low level of education also being a cause of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. i believe that equal access to high quality education from an early age needs to be improved, as early school leaving has serious consequences not only for economic growth, social stability but also for social cohesion in the eu, harming the career path, health and well-being of young people. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for the honeyball report because i appreciate the emphasis on the inclusion of vulnerable groups in mainstream education. in romania, the school drop-out rate has increased by one third in the last ten years, from 1.8% to 2.4%. the phenomenon is aggravated by the current economic and social crisis. the roma community is still the most affected: according to studies, 4 out of 5 out-of-school children in romania are roma. the reasons for this situation are many. one is the difficulty of the family in supporting and encouraging children to pursue some form of education. in these circumstances, concrete and structured support from the school, the community and the authorities is needed. at the moment, one of the problems in this area is the lack of good practice at national level. this is why, for example, the roma education centre was set up in bihor county, which helps develop alternative educational programmes. one of the actions is the 'summer kindergarten', a non-formal education programme aimed at closing the gap in pre-school preparation between roma and non-roma children entering the first grade. i support these types of initiatives, which will make a significant contribution to the implementation of the national roma inclusion strategy.
in writing. − early school leaving is a complex phenomenon and a huge challenge facing europe. the eu's efforts to implement a number of measures and tools to better support member states in developing effective and efficient national policies to combat this phenomenon are therefore important. the europe 2020 strategy furthermore sets six main objectives for member states, one of which is to reduce early school leaving by 10% by 2020. the previous target, set in 2003, was not met by more than seven member states, as the early school leaving rate for all young people aged 18-24 at the end of 2009 was 14.4%. high rates of early school leaving have strong social and economic implications. early school leaving has a negative impact on economic growth, causing economic and social instability. interventions aimed at mobilising the energies and developing the skills of young people are therefore essential for the future economic and social development of the member states. it is estimated that reducing the rate of early school leaving in europe by just 1% would create an additional almost half a million young people with qualifications each year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that access to education for young people is the most important tool for developing society and democracy in a sustainable way. europe is at a moment when it cannot afford to lose talent, let alone the enormous burden that school dropout places on social systems. we cannot talk about rebooting the european economy without investing in education. we have thus supported the decision to provide school leavers with access to european funds and mobility programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because early school leaving is a fundamental factor contributing to unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. in order to participate fully in society and to fulfil their potential as european citizens, young people need to possess a broad range of knowledge and skills that are essential for their intellectual and social performance. they must be able to communicate effectively, work in teams, solve complex problems and critically evaluate information. this is a hugely important issue, especially in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, as one of the five main objectives is to reduce the school drop-out rate to below 10% and to ensure that at least 40% of the young generation has a higher education qualification or diploma or equivalent. last but not least, i argue that the issue of roma youth needs to be addressed in a special way. they must be allowed access to education, and in traditional roma communities additional measures are needed to overcome the problems of early school leaving.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on combating early school leaving, as i am firmly convinced that concrete action is needed at european and national level to tackle this problem. early school leaving is rooted in a number of causes specific to each environment, which are influenced by the characteristics of the education system in the member states. that is why, in voting today, i supported the need for an approach that is tailored to the distinct particularities and needs of each country. i also voted for both the commission and the member states to establish and implement policies that can identify early and support children and young people who are at the highest risk of early school leaving. i think this report is a good one, because it contains the measures needed to tackle this problem, while also underlining the importance of coordination at both european and national level and the key role that member states have in preventing early school leaving. i believe that the latter must first analyse the causes of this phenomenon and establish national action plans in line with european recommendations in this area.
in writing. − the economic recovery in the european union is closely linked to a highly skilled workforce, an objective that is part of our strategy for the next period: europe 2020. at present, unfortunately, a large number of young people leave school prematurely, with insufficient qualifications. it significantly reduces their chances of success in life, social integration and employment in a well-paid job. significantly, statistics show that reducing the early school leaving rate by one percentage point could generate one million qualified young people and new economic growth opportunities annually. in this regard, it is important to identify those measures that can reduce the phenomenon of school dropout. for example, counselling offered to both pupils and parents, given the influence of the family environment on the educational and social path of the pupil. the contribution of extracurricular activities organised within educational institutions is also important. i also draw attention to the additional support that needs to be given to people with disabilities to provide them with an appropriate qualification, as well as to 'second chance' solutions for those who have left school but wish to continue their training.
in writing. − i voted for the report on combating early school leaving, because equal opportunities and access to education, irrespective of social background, family economic status, gender or disability, are essential for the economic and social development of the union. the competitiveness of the union depends on the quality and access of young people to quality education. i would like to stress the link between early school leaving and youth unemployment. over half of the young people who had left school early in the eu were unemployed in 2009. early school leaving means precarious jobs, and the long-term economic and social effects of early school leaving involve a high risk of poverty. the fight against early school leaving is an effective way to prevent social exclusion of young people. i encourage member states to invest in teacher training and staff qualification, both in pre-primary and compulsory education. i would stress that information and communication technology (ict) can have positive effects in pedagogical contexts and can foster motivation and learning. member states should promote and strengthen pupils' access to ict and establish training programmes for teachers. i call for additional funding and greater accessibility for the eu's lifelong learning programme and for increased mobility of pupils and teachers.
in writing. - i voted for the simpson report on the proposal for a regulation on statistical data relating to the carriage of goods by road. in order to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it in the context of the common transport policy, the commission needs to have at its disposal comparable, reliable, synchronised, regular and comprehensive statistical data on the size and development of the road haulage of goods by vehicles registered in the union and on the degree of utilisation of the vehicles performing such transport. it is necessary to produce comprehensive regional statistics on both freight transport and vehicle movements. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the establishment of common statistical standards, which allow for the production of harmonised information, can only be better achieved at union level. the data will be collected in each member state under the authority of the bodies and institutions responsible for producing official statistics. member states are required to compile statistics on the carriage of goods by road by means of road freight vehicles registered in that member state and on the journeys made by those vehicles. member states shall transmit to eurostat, on a quarterly basis, individually verified data without indicating name, address or registration number.
in writing. − i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the european union, as i believe that this country has fulfilled all the conditions, both political and economic, for eu membership. by acceding to the union, croatia demonstrates that it remains open and capable of maintaining a constructive and genuine dialogue with its immediate neighbour. this is extremely important, especially in the current crisis that the eu is going through and which is pushing the union towards a self-closure. dialogue and openness, the eu's core values, must remain the benchmark not only in its external relations and on issues such as immigration, but also in the internal european dynamics. this dialogue and openness should help to relaunch eu integration by abandoning nationalist or xenophobic behaviour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2011 on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union, as i support the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. the commission should continue to monitor preparations for accession with rigour and objectivity and help the croatian authorities to fulfil their commitments and obligations as they have been assumed in the course of the negotiations. the commission should also regularly inform parliament on the extent to which the croatian authorities are honouring their commitments to assume fully the obligations of membership upon accession on 1 july 2013. we draw attention to the need to consult parliament on any substantial amendment to the draft treaty on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. we expect, as of 1 july 2013, a more active participation of croatia in the development and implementation of eu macro-regional strategies, in particular the eu strategy for the danube region.
in writing. − i support croatia's accession to the european union and appreciate the important steps that have been taken in this direction. the report by hannes swoboda welcomes the conclusion of the accession negotiations, calls on croatia to organise a referendum and vote on the accession treaty. it also calls on the member states to complete the ratification process swiftly. i supported this report. croatia has fulfilled its commitments. however, the government of croatia still needs to address challenges such as those in the legal system and the continuing fight against corruption and organised crime. structural reforms in the economy and boosting competitiveness are also needed.
in writing. - i voted for croatia to join the eu. as the representative of one of the newest member states to join the union, i am delighted that another country will join the union in 2013. the accession of croatia is a start and an example for all the countries of the western balkans. the european integration of the western balkans is a key strategy for achieving the european objectives of stability and prosperity. croatia has made progress in all areas of the accession process over the past 12 months and is a country with great potential for the union. the accession process has contributed significantly to croatia's transformation into a democracy based on european values and has given impetus to political and economic reforms. all these efforts of the croatian state must be rewarded so that citizens can fully enjoy their country's eu membership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on croatia's application to become a member of the european union, because eu enlargement, through croatia's accession, will contribute to strengthening stability, freedom and prosperity in europe. one of the union's objectives is to strengthen solidarity between its peoples, while respecting their history, culture and traditions. croatia's accession implies respect for the values on which the eu is founded and a commitment to promoting them. i welcome croatia's declaration on promoting european values in south east europe. the negotiations were concluded on 30 june 2011 and the terms agreed upon were fair and appropriate. consequently, croatia fulfils the political criteria and we expect it to be ready to join on 1 july 2013. croatia needs to continue structural reforms in the economy, boost employment by reinvigorating the labour market and continue fiscal consolidation to boost competitiveness. it is important that economic recovery is accompanied by environmental modernisation, including through improved energy efficiency, strengthened policies on renewable energy sources and harmonised land-use planning and energy policies. i encourage croatia to further strengthen workers' and trade union rights and to strengthen social dialogue in decision-making.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the code of conduct for meps, as such a code was badly needed. the code of conduct defines conflict of interest and provides for the possibility of sanctioning meps, including by suspension or withdrawal of their mandate. the code makes it clear that meps cannot receive money or benefits in return for voting or legislative or political activity in the european parliament. in addition, under the new code, meps must submit a declaration of financial interests, which must indicate, among other things: - their professional activities in the three years preceding their election to parliament; - any periodic paid employment carried out by a member in parallel with his duties; - any occasional paid external activity (including author's writing, lectures or expertise), where the total remuneration exceeds eur 5 000 per calendar year; - any gift or benefit valued at more than €150 received by a member in the course of his duties must be refused or, if he is formally representing parliament, be transferred to the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this first code of conduct for meps. the code defines the conflict of interest, requires the disclosure of activities during the three years prior to the mep’s mandate, and foresees the possibility to apply penalties, including the suspension or removal of the mep from office. the code is a first step towards transparency and the prevailing of public interest. the code shows clearly that meps cannot receive money or favours in exchange for their vote or their legislative or political activity with the european parliament. we should go further and prohibit paid membership of boards of directors, as well as a second paid job, except teaching and similar work clearly defined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision amending the rules of procedure with regard to the code of conduct for members of the european parliament on financial interests and conflicts of interest, as i believe that parliament should have clear rules on transparency regarding the financial interests and conduct of its members. the rules of procedure lay down guiding principles for the performance of duties by members of the european parliament. in the performance of their duties, members of the european parliament shall act solely in the public interest and shall not seek or seek any direct or indirect financial advantage or other advantage. members shall also be guided and act in accordance with the following general principles of conduct: selflessness, integrity, transparency, conscientiousness, honesty, responsibility and respect for the reputation of parliament. parliament shall draw up rules on transparency of its members' financial interests in the form of a code of conduct adopted by a majority of its component members in accordance with article 232 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which shall be annexed to its rules of procedure. the office shall adopt the measures for the implementation of this code of conduct, including a control procedure, and may submit proposals for the revision of the code of conduct.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as i consider the coordination of economic policies to be of particular importance for the functioning of the euro area, and this resolution contains a number of very useful recommendations for improving the european semester. i believe that the process of coordination must be given greater democratic legitimacy and that the european parliament and national parliaments must be more closely involved in this process. i am glad that the rapporteur has abandoned the idea of setting up a special parliamentary committee with only meps from the euro area countries, as such an initiative would have led to the splitting of parliament, with a negative impact on its functioning. such a measure is all the more difficult to understand as most of the states that are not part of the euro area today, including romania, want to adopt the single currency in the future, which makes all members of this parliament have an interest in making the euro area more efficient. last but not least, as this report recommends, i believe it is very important that member states' economic policies place a high priority on economic growth, because in the current austerity context we are in great need of policies that put us back on the path of economic growth that puts an end to austerity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination. the economic and financial crisis has led some member states to reduce public spending and investment in areas vital to european citizens, such as health and education. i believe it is important that both the commission and the council ensure that sustainable and inclusive growth, linked to employment and job creation, is at the heart of all policy proposals made in the context of the european semester. measures taken in the framework of the national reform plans for the implementation of 'economic governance' and the european semester should not lead to an aggravation of the social crisis. i believe that the commission and council recommendations should focus mainly on a social policy favourable to vocational education and training, access to employment, the reintegration of the unemployed into the labour market and better coordination of the social protection systems in the member states. the eu also needs to strengthen the internal market and remove barriers to the mobility of workers within the eu. i ask that the commission's country-specific recommendations be accompanied by social impact assessments, taking into account the promotion of employment and the guarantee of access to education and continuing training programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because aids is a disease that can be fully prevented and primary prevention actions, in particular the provision of the necessary information, skills, services and materials, are essential to prevent the spread of hiv. we are now seeing an alarming increase in the number of people infected with hiv, and this is a phenomenon of particular importance, especially in eastern europe. i support the call on the commission and the council to invest the necessary resources to guarantee equitable access to hiv prevention measures and i believe that the issue of social stigma needs to be addressed comprehensively. i also believe that the commission should develop collective measures and approaches at eu level to promote full respect for human rights and information campaigns on combating stigmatisation and discrimination against people living with hiv/aids. last but not least, it is also the duty of the member states to take all necessary measures to put an end to the discrimination to which persons infected with this virus are subject, in particular as regards access to insurance services, as well as their conditions and prices.
in writing. − in the last decade, the number of people infected with hiv has fallen by almost 20% and, for the first time in 2009, due to improved access to treatment, more than 50% of hiv-positive women gave birth to uninfected children. progress is largely due to the increased use of antiretroviral drugs. this is why the commission must continue to use all the opportunities available under the r & d framework programme to identify funding for promising projects in hiv/aids research and the development of new antiretroviral medicines, vaccines and innovative microbicides. these encouraging statistics also show that the commission and the member states must continue to promote communication campaigns to provide people with clear information on hiv infection, how to prevent it and what behaviours are at risk.
in writing. − the eu has made human rights and democracy a central aspect of its european neighbourhood policy. the future association agreement with ukraine, which involves an unprecedented level of integration between the eu and a third country, will become an example for the entire neighbourhood policy. it is clear that the current political situation in ukraine, in particular in the area of civil liberties and the rule of law, is contrary to the spirit of the negotiated eu-ukraine association agreement. the eu understands that providing ukraine with a clear european perspective is in the interest of both parties. the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). the eu strongly advocates a stable and democratic ukraine, which respects the principles of a social and inclusive market economy, the rule of law, including an independent judiciary, human rights and the protection of minorities. there are, at this time, real concerns about freedom of the press, civil society, the conduct of elections and the rule of law in ukraine. the sentencing on 11 october 2011 of the former prime minister of ukraine to seven years in prison and the trials of other ministers have generated deep concern in the eu and are seen by many as an act of revenge.
in writing. − due to its size, resources, population and geographical position, ukraine is a key regional actor with a great deal of influence on the security, stability and prosperity of the entire continent, and should therefore assume its share of political responsibility. ukraine is committed to implementing a very large part of the acquis communautaire, and the negotiations are among the most advanced in the eastern part of the continent and should be a true example for the whole of the european neighbourhood policy. although there were some concerns about freedom of the press, freedom of civil society, the conduct of elections and the rule of law, ukraine has repeatedly confirmed its commitment to european integration and its ambition to become a member state. i consider an eu-ukraine association agreement to be a key instrument in achieving this objective. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the association agreement and the association agreement, which is a key element of the eu's external relations.
in writing. − customs services have a key role to play in ensuring safety and security, protecting consumers and the environment, strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and enforcing intellectual property rights. a customs policy comprising functional, efficient and simplified customs procedures plays a key role in combating the illegal entry of counterfeit goods and products into the single market and therefore improves safety and security for european consumers. the modernisation of the eu's customs strategy and customs instruments is a key contribution to the eu's global economic competitiveness and to secure trade relations with third countries. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague mr salvini because i believe it is the key to the union's competitiveness in today's market. i stress the need to adapt the system to current requirements. thus, a differentiated transit for perishable and non-perishable goods must be ensured. timely and secure supply of the european market is the union's priority today. the principle of proportionality of the measures taken by the national authorities must also be respected. an effective customs regime is essential for the development of intellectual property rights, as underlined in recital 22. it also ensures the necessary transparency for the day-to-day business of smes, facilitating economic growth. in romania, one of the main objectives of the reform was to eradicate corruption in the customs system. along with the restructuring of the border police, it is the basis for romania's accession to the schengen area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because an effective customs union is one of the cornerstones of the european integration process and a strong foundation for the free movement of goods, for growth and economic development within the internal market. they argue that customs services have a key role to play in ensuring safety and security, consumer and environmental protection, as well as in strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and enforcing intellectual property rights. i believe that the modernisation of the customs strategy should be a priority and have an ambitious budget, as a good policy on functioning customs procedures can make a key contribution to boosting the eu's global competitiveness. i also argue that customs administrations need to be modernised and that we need modernisation measures, such as simplification of customs legislation and interoperable customs it systems, which will help to facilitate business practices. last but not least, i believe that in order to ensure that the customs services can effectively fulfil their mission, cooperation between the various parties involved and the customs authorities is essential and i believe that we must ensure a prompt and transparent flow of information between all parties involved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of customs services, as these services have a key role to play in ensuring safety and security, consumer and environmental protection, ensuring full revenue collection, strengthening the fight against fraud and corruption and enforcing intellectual property rights. a practical, simple and functional customs system is essential to facilitate the mobility of goods and trade in the internal market, in particular for smes. a functioning customs policy plays a key role in ensuring the safety and security of european consumers. customs services today face increasing volumes of import, export and transit operations and electronic customs systems are one of the main aspects of the modernisation and simplification of customs services. i believe that the modernisation of the eu's customs strategy and customs instruments should be a top political priority, supported by an adequate budget. we welcome the commission's initiative to promote the adoption of electronic invoicing at european level, which will help to simplify transactions and reduce tax fraud. we ask the commission to present to the european parliament by june 2012 a report on the current state of compliance with eu customs legislation by member states, including an action plan to correct any identified deficiencies.
mr president, i think this is indeed a matter of utmost importance and fully deserves to be debated during this plenary session. as you already told us, it regards the free movement of workers on the european labour market, which of course should be regarded as a right and not as a favour to be bestowed discretionally on romanian or bulgarian workers. can i remind this house that the recent report from the commission ‘decriminalised’ the romanian and bulgarian workforce, so to say, by proving statistically that their contribution to both the eu’s and the destination countries’ gdp was – i repeat, statistically speaking – strictly positive. moreover, time is of the essence regarding this matter, as the deadline for imposing or extending barriers against romanian and bulgarian workers is 31 december 2011. consequently i am sure this house will wisely acknowledge the importance of this matter and show its support for it.
the fisheries agreement with morocco is not a partnership agreement at all, as all the other colleagues have pointed out. it is neither fair to the european union nor does it take into account the protection of fish stocks; i shall therefore vote against it. but i must also say that this is not an isolated incident. it would be necessary and indeed urgent to intensify dialogue with our black sea neighbours - especially turkey - on the same grounds, possibly in a special institutional framework, following the model of the mediterranean fisheries commission.
the proposal to amend the 2006 interinstitutional agreement to respond to the additional funding needs of the iter project is in line with the council decision on the european atomic energy community framework programme for nuclear research and training 2012-2013, which we voted on at the previous plenary session. in the trilogue, the parliament, the commission and the council agreed to bear the additional cost of eur 1 300 million for the iter project in 2012-2013: eur 100 million already included in the 2012 budget, eur 360 million in commitment appropriations for 2013, and the ceilings for commitment appropriations under heading 1a will be increased by eur 840 million. thus, on the basis of the knowledge base provided by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, the iter experimental fusion reactor under construction at cadarache in france can prepare the next generation of experimental fusion reactors and europe can become a world leader in the construction of experimental fusion reactors.
ways must be found to produce clean energy on a large scale, thus meeting the world's growing needs. thermonuclear fusion is one solution, being a virtually inexhaustible, safe, and carbon-free source of energy. the iter project is building on this future technology and is also a remarkable model of international cooperation. it must be continued under optimal conditions, including by allocating the necessary financial resources. i welcome the fact that an interinstitutional agreement has been reached to cover the sum of eur 1 300 million for the next two years. i also believe that budgetary discipline must be respected and that the identification of the necessary funds must not be at the expense of other areas and projects of european union importance.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, protecting victims, wherever they find themselves across the union, is – and must remain – a crucial element of our action, because exercising one’s freedom of movement and residence should not result in a loss of that protection. if improving procedural rights is crucial to developing a fair justice system, it is equally important to improve the rights of victims. as we raise those standards, we have to embark on balancing: on one side the rights of the accused and, on the other side, the rights of the victims in the administration of justice. this is why the commission has always supported the objectives of this proposal and why we have completed this member state initiative by legislation allowing victims to benefit from the speediest means available for civil law protection measures as well. i wish to thank both rapporteurs, ms jiménez-becerril barrio and ms romero lópez, for their determination and flexibility and for being so helpful in finding a good solution in this dossier. i would like to stress that the contribution from the european parliament was also very valuable in raising the general level of ambition for this proposal. that was essential. ensuring that no gaps remain in the protection of victims is equally important. that is why the legislation on a civil european protection order (epo) should be discussed and negotiated as a priority. protection for women when they travel and go abroad is either covered under criminal law or under civil law for administrative reasons, depending on the system of the member state. it is important to have both so that no woman will be left behind. i know this is a top priority here in this house. i discussed it last week with the incoming danish presidency to ensure that it will also be a priority for them. i really hope that at the beginning of next year we can add to the criminal epo the civil epo, in order to have this needless distinction removed. you are absolutely right that this will be very important for all the victims because it will be a signal to show them that europe cares for them, that they are not left behind and that this awful crime, which often takes place in hiding, will come out into the open. that is also why i very much look forward to our fruitful cooperation on my proposal for a horizontal directive on victims’ rights, which will complete what we have now started to do on the epo. concerning data, i absolutely agree with the rapporteur that we do not have the necessary data in order to have precise figures – as precise as possible – because very often it is a family affair that is hidden in the household. that is why i have asked the vilnius institute to gather and collect data on gender-based violence. the vilnius institute is working on this. i will come back to parliament as soon as there are results.
on behalf of the epp group. about 8 000 romanians benefited last year in spain as victims of protection orders. they are protected only in spain and should also be protected when travelling to romania or other member states. statistics show that about 15% of europeans are victims of crime, and the physical, emotional and financial consequences for victims and their families cannot be measured and seen in statistics. in europe, the number of protection orders is estimated at 100 000, but they are only valid for the member state that issued them. the european protection order will change the limited, territorial dimension of protection measures taken on the basis of criminal law. the directive will allow a protection order issued in one member state to be recognised in another member state to which the victim is travelling. as the epp shadow rapporteur on the libe committee, i thank rapporteur teresa jiménez for her dedication to her work and her commitment to the protection of victims. i thank the council for its legislative initiative and the european commission for the legislative proposals which complement this directive with a view to the recognition of protection measures issued under civil and administrative law. all victims must be treated with respect and dignity and must receive protection alongside the freedom to move freely within the union as a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
i welcome the initiative to adopt a european directive on the protection of victims of crime. it reinforces the principle of automatic mutual recognition in the union, complementing the european arrest warrant. this directive proposes a considerable reduction in the bureaucracy required for the cross-border application of security measures. in most cases where such interventions are needed, reaction time is crucial. i'm calling attention to the 10th amendment. the new text proposes a flexibility clause. a mechanism is therefore provided for to adapt the european protection order to the legislation of each member state. coordination between states in monitoring compliance with safety measures is also important. in the event of their being violated, they may be replaced or supplemented in accordance with the agreement between the executing country and the issuing country.
by adopting and promoting legislation, the european parliament has supported and supports any measure that comes to the aid of those who fight violence against women. i welcome the report by the two colleagues, which proposes to extend the scope of the directive in force so that it is possible to protect both women who have been victims of various forms of violence with an identified perpetrator, and children or other adults in the vicinity of the victims. i also find it useful that the report proposes that the european protection order can be applied to all victims of crime, but also to witnesses, victims of terrorism and organised crime, regardless of their age or sex, when there is an identified aggressor. last but not least, i believe that the competent authorities must take into account the needs of victims, especially when they are vulnerable, such as minors or people with disabilities.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in 2008 this house voted in the return directive, which immediately became one of the most criticised eu laws. a large number of countries outside the european union and a huge number of ngos from within and outside the eu expressed their disappointment and frustration. we promised at the time that measures to send home people who came and stayed irregularly in the eu would be accompanied by genuine legislation dealing with legal migration, making it more coherent and human. this task has become one of the main priorities of the commission, whose ambition is to see the entire package on migration adopted by the end of 2012. i hope parliament shares this ambition. the single application procedure for residence is the first one to be adopted; it was discussed at length and negotiated not only with the council but also among political groups in this parliament. i want to congratulate véronique mathieu for her determination during the entire process; it was not easy at all. i am convinced we did the right thing and i regret that our socialist colleagues abstained during the last vote. certainly the single permit in its actual wording is not the best it could be. however it is much better when compared to the situation in many member states. i dare to say that it is an honest attempt to provide people who want to come and study and work within the european union with a better mechanism to do so, and also maybe to protect them from the humiliation they have to suffer in various member states at present. i cannot imagine the european union asking to be taken seriously and claiming to be an international actor without minimum standards on migration and asylum.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her determination and intelligence in bringing this report to a successful conclusion. the agreement negotiated with the council is not entirely satisfactory, but it can be considered a step forward. the single permit will in reality apply only to a limited category of workers, which is contrary to the very principle of a single procedure which that directive was intended to introduce at the outset. at the same time, it is unfair that both the working conditions and the benefits derived will not be fully equivalent to those applicable to eu citizens. however, i cannot say that this is a surprise, given that romanians and bulgarians, being european citizens, are still discriminated against in the labour market in certain member states. i believe that the errors and shortcomings in this directive can be corrected by the new directives on seasonal workers and intra-corporate transfers.
i believe that to ensure competitiveness and economic growth, the european union needs a young, mobile and highly skilled workforce. it may come either from the member states or from outside the union. in both cases, barriers to mobility, recruitment and settlement of workers, as well as barriers to the recognition of professional qualifications, persist. they must be abolished to increase europe's welfare and attract a highly skilled workforce. the introduction of a single procedure for applying for residence and work permits will make an important contribution. it will reduce red tape, simplify procedures, increase transparency and shorten the time taken to examine applications. i would remind the difficulties faced by romanian and bulgarian workers in obtaining work permits in member states that still impose restrictions.
the introduction of a single application procedure leading to the issue, in the framework of a single administrative act, of a combined residence and work permit will help to simplify and harmonise the rules currently applicable in the member states. i support equal treatment between third-country nationals legally present in the eu and host member state nationals in terms of access to social housing and education, pension rights and social services. i appreciate the efficiency of solvit, which, for example, made it easy for a turkish citizen to join his pregnant danish wife living in germany in eight weeks. in 2010, 23% of all cases received by solvit concerned the residence rights of non-eu citizens. i believe, however, that member states must give priority to the employment of nationals of member states and therefore i also call for the removal of barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur for the very solid work done and for the efficient way the negotiations on this dossier were concluded, which has permitted a first reading agreement. i would also like to praise the role of mr albrecht, the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, as well as the important role played by all the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to thank the european parliament in general because it has contributed to maintaining the level of ambition of the commission’s proposal. one thing in particular which i believe is very important for our citizens, the letter of rights, has been maintained in the final text as well as the actual list of rights and the moment when the rights apply. i also welcome the fact that additional rights were added to the list of rights, notably the right to remain silent, which shows again that it is very good that parliament has codecision possibilities because parliament preserves the rights of the individual. the measure on the right of information in criminal proceedings, as you know, is part of the procedural rights roadmap and the implementation of this roadmap is one of my top priorities. the letter of rights and right to information is now the second measure adopted; with the right to interpretation and translation having already been adopted. so we are progressing quickly on this issue and i think that is good for the europe of the citizens and of rights. in some member states i am asked the question: why do you do this – are those rights not the usual rights that everybody has? unfortunately it still happens in some member states that someone can be brought to trial and not know that he has a right to a lawyer or to an interpreter. we have even heard of cases where people have been tried in court and did not know or did not understand what the accusation against them was. with this measure, accused persons will receive a letter of rights, in a language they understand, and will be guaranteed to receive adequate information about the charges they face. this is important in today’s europe in which millions of people exercise their right to free movement and travel to other eu member states, be it to work, for study or for retirement. they need to know, if they find themselves caught up in criminal proceedings, that their rights are protected and that parliament has helped to do this. in addition, this measure will also play a vital part in promoting mutual trust between justice systems in the eu, which in turn is necessary to enhance judicial cooperation, because without trust this cooperation cannot function. here, together with those instruments of mutual recognition, we are creating a continent of justice, rights and security for european citizens, and i thank the parliamentarians who make this possible.
on behalf of the epp group. access to information by suspects and accused persons is a key factor in ensuring fair criminal proceedings. the provision of rights information is the platform for access to all rights. to prepare a defense, a person needs to know the details of the case against him and the evidence. suspects or accused persons do not always receive this information. legislation and judicial practice differ considerably from one member state to another. if suspects are not properly informed, criminal proceedings may be unfair, which may result in unnecessary costs due to delays in proceedings, costs related to the exercise of appeals and the failure of criminal investigations. there are no rules at a sufficient level and the existing ones are not properly implemented. neither the minimum standards laid down in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, nor the convention and its implementing mechanism, provide sufficient protection in all cases with regard to the provision of adequate information on rights and, in particular, on charges. the way in which states reflect these rights in national practice is not uniform. this reinforces the need for action at community level. union instruments facilitating judicial cooperation between member states are based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments, and such semi-automatic recognition requires mutual trust between judges and between courts. the available data show that the problem of insufficient information is acute, and not limited to certain member states. the adoption of this directive is therefore a very important step towards better protection of fundamental rights in the european union. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation on this case, and the commissioner for her commitment to the adoption of regulations that improve the procedural rights of defendants in criminal proceedings.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs sippel, on her work and on the excellent report, and commissioner and vice-president reding on the proposal for this directive. this new directive addresses a real problem of romanian and european citizens who, although enjoying freedom of movement within the european union, must abide by the rules of 27 judicial systems. more harmonisation is needed between the civil and criminal justice systems of the member states, and the first step in this direction is to establish common standards for the information of the accused. often, accused persons do not know the language or the rights conferred by the national legislation of the member states, and this can lead to abuse. an eloquent example is that of romanian and bulgarian roma citizens who were expelled from france without knowing what charges were brought against them or what rights they had. the right to interpretation and translation and to be informed of rights and obligations are fundamental and should constitute mandatory minimum standards in all member states.
the criminal law of the member states must take account of the totality of the rights deriving from european citizenship. in this context, i draw attention to amendment 4, which specifies the right to translation and interpretation. it is an application of the principle of multilingualism laid down in the founding treaties, which govern all the union's fields of activity. the right to an ombudsman, enshrined in the same amendment, is the european codification of a principle guaranteeing access to justice. the laws of the member states need to be harmonised to ensure the necessary funding for this measure. i support providing a copy of the bill of rights to every person detained or arrested. i think that at this point, this category doesn't have the minimum level of information to have a fair trial.
economists are the people who teach us what to do with money we don't have. everyone talks about the crisis as if it were inevitable. there are those who say so - the alternative to crisis is war: choose! well, it's not exactly like that. perhaps this reasoning was valid until 1945, in a period when imbalances were resolved brutally, by force, in the sense that a big scandal was covered up by a bigger scandal. but in the meantime, the european union has emerged, that is, the form of organization that has the duty to avoid war and to prevent or drastically limit the crisis. however, what the founding fathers of the european union did not take into account was human greed. if 60 years ago the entire kennedy clan was worth $400 million, today we're seeing fabulous wealth. there are about 1,500 dollar billionaires on the planet. i'll end with a meditation by st. augustine: the rich will get to heaven when they let the poor in.
the ruling party in romania has taken the decision, by assuming the responsibility of the government in bucharest, without any further consultation with the other parties or a debate on this issue, to combine the local elections with the parliamentary ones. this bill is illegal and abusive because the postponement of local elections violates several legal provisions in force according to which the extension of the date of local elections can only be done in case of war or catastrophe, and romania is not in either of these two situations. the postponement of local elections is also deeply undemocratic, as the electoral standards developed at european level reject the postponement of elections to a fixed date, in accordance with the 2010 venice convention on electoral standards, rights and freedoms. i believe that this unprecedented situation is out of the democratic pattern, is an attack on european values and must cause reactions from both civil society in romania, but also from the european union and other international bodies that believe in freedom and democracy.
i was unpleasantly surprised by the fake organic scandal and especially by the scale of the chain that sells these products throughout europe. it is an alarm signal not only for romania and italy, the countries from which the raw material was purchased, but also for the whole european union. in the context of the alleged sale of some 700 000 tonnes of products falsely labelled as organic in europe, i am concerned about the impact on consumers and, in particular, about the impact of this incident on the whole food sector. we always campaign for the correct and complete information of consumers but this time the measures we will take will have to reassure consumers that such things will not happen again. there is a need for more rigorous control and monitoring of trade in organic products within the european union. in addition, from now on we must be more careful to prevent such incidents from occurring in other sectors.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that today the romanian government decided to legislate the combination of local and parliamentary elections in 2012 by committing the responsibility, without debate in parliament and by unjustified extension of the mandates of local elected officials. the holding of local and parliamentary elections on the same date is contrary to the spirit of the european recommendations. moreover, the undemocratic nature of this merger is also reflected in the european conventions, and i am referring to the venice commission, which clearly states that no change can be legislated before the elections are held within a year. in the context of so many problems in europe, we must find solutions to overcome the crisis, in the context of such volatility in the international context, we need your support and close monitoring of events in romania, knowing and being aware of the fact that we are interested in having the legitimacy of governments in the european union.
the commission's report on barriers to trade and investment shows that by 2015, 90% of global growth will be generated outside europe. the eu's competitiveness and industrial policy depend on the availability of raw materials and rare earths. the extractive industries transparency initiative should be an effective instrument to ensure transparency and combat speculation in the commodity markets. i would like to stress the importance of the european union's trade relations with the mercosur region and with india. although eu investment in india has more than quadrupled since 2003, india's investment policy continues to put obstacles in the way of foreign investment. although brazil and argentina are important trading partners for the european union, these countries are constantly adopting tariff and non-tariff measures that disadvantage european businesses, even though these two countries are negotiating a free trade agreement with the european union. restrictions on shipping are also a concern for european businesses.
non-tariff barriers preventing european producers and exporters from accessing external markets must be removed. it is important that multilateral trade rules are applied correctly. reciprocity in access to the markets of both parties under bilateral free trade agreements is essential. i support the promotion of codes of conduct in public procurement. european companies should be able to participate in public procurement procedures in third countries under conditions of fair and equitable competition. at the same time, a stable and attractive environment for european investors abroad must be created. i stress the need to remove restrictions affecting european services, given the union's position as the world's largest exporter of services.
i would first like to thank the two presidents, mr van rompuy and mr barroso, for the efforts and the results achieved at this european council. it was what was expected! sure, some people are unhappy. what matters now, however, is that the results of this european council be implemented as quickly as possible, without hesitation, and, at the same time, i would stress, so that we begin to see concrete results in the implementation of the adjustment programmes of the two countries, greece and italy. progress in implementing these programmes will give the european union much greater credibility in the financial markets. of course, it will be the european citizens who will continue to make the sacrifices, because more budgetary discipline will also attract measures to reduce budget deficits in the member states of the european union. i would like to draw attention again to the fact that while citizens make sacrifices, there are companies that operate in the european union but have their domiciles in tax havens and continue not to pay taxes in the member states of the european union. i ask the council and the european commission not to abandon this subject: let us go so far that companies registered in member states which do not want to be transparent and which are registered with profits in tax havens can no longer carry out operations on the territory of the member states.
in writing. last week in brussels, a number of vital and necessary decisions were taken for the future of the european union. in the spirit of democracy, these decisions must now be explained and subject to a wide debate in each member state. unfortunately, the sense of democracy and normality has long been lost by the current power in romania. the authoritarianism of the president of the state has become so pronounced that the decisions at the brussels summit were taken personally, in the name of the romanian state, without consulting anyone and without any debate either before or after the summit. moreover, they now intend to use the decisions of the european council to change the constitution quickly in their own electoral interests. i would like to ask the current authorities in romania to stop any deviation from democratic principles and to open a real dialogue with the opposition as soon as possible on the democratic implementation of the new rules agreed at european level. the introduction of new provisions into the constitution cannot take place before the restoration of the legitimacy of the parliament by organising early elections.
in writing. this economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in inequalities and macroeconomic imbalances, and last week's european council brought forward a number of particularly important measures to strengthen fiscal governance and coordinate long-term economic policies. the results achieved are a first step in the right direction, but they are not sufficient to solve the sovereign debt crisis or other problems we are facing today. the reticence of some european leaders is unacceptable at this particularly difficult time for us, and i would like to congratulate the member states which, although not part of the euro area, have shown their confidence and support for the continuation of the common european monetary project. the decision of these countries to join the agreement is in the interest of the whole european union and i believe that now, more than ever, the eu must act and make itself heard with one strong common voice that demonstrates that our interests are the same. only then will we be able to restore confidence in the financial markets, the single currency and our common european project.
in writing. the european council of 9 december 2011 failed to impose its position on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, although it once again found that all the necessary legal conditions had been met. the council's message was not strong enough because of a lack of political will. the persistent veto of the netherlands calls into question the legitimacy of the claims of this state, which on the one hand declares that romania has done its duty and has complied with all the requirements imposed by the schengen acquis, and on the other hand, does not comply with the political agreement concluded with the other member states. the netherlands' position affects not only the access to schengen of romania and bulgaria, but the functioning of the union in general, because the internal policy of this state is in contradiction with its commitments taken at union level. eu governments must speak with one voice so as not to jeopardise the freedom of movement of european citizens and to avoid the reintroduction of internal border controls in the future. i hope that the european council in march 2012 will return to this subject and make the right decision: romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area.
in writing. i would like to welcome the adoption of these ambitious fiscal governance proposals by the european council. since 2010, romania has taken the measures that are today required of euro area states and those wishing to join the intergovernmental agreement. romania had a deficit of 4,4% in 2011, has a draft budget with a budget deficit of 1,9% in 2012 and is heading for a zero deficit in 2013 - so in line with the agreement. these rules are not new rules in the european union, they already existed, but they have only been broken, and the imposition of firm sanctions for those who do not comply with them and additional guarantees for their compliance are two imperative conditions at this time.
in writing. – this european council's major achievements are: 1. the split between eurozone and non-eurozone member states was avoided; 2. compulsory economic, fiscal and budgetary governance was agreed upon. this opens the way to a new european architecture. what starts with a treaty may finish with a constitution. the summit's negative results are: 1. the concept of solidarity is missing from the envisaged solutions. or, solidarity is key to economic growth and job creation, both being the foundation of a social europe. 2. the lack of short-term solutions, necessary to regain the confidence of the markets, but also that of the european citizens. the uk's self-isolation is an opportunity rather than a crisis. even if regrettable, it is not lethal. the future negotiations must include all willing eurozone and non-eurozone members. including the eu institutions is also necessary. legal coherence must be ensured between the inter-governmental treaty and european legislation; eventually, they should form one juridical instrument. the treaty should regulate the coherence between various internal and external european policies. all its signatories would be automatically included into the schengen area and the eurozone. this might represent the birth of a new europe, with uk joining it or being only its partner.
in writing. the european council conclusions (8-9 december 2011) underline the need for new economic governance to be complemented by a monitoring of social and employment policies, in particular those that can positively influence macroeconomic stability and growth. we welcome the fact that the european council has identified the need for specific measures at both national and european level for the most vulnerable groups, in particular the young unemployed. i believe that it is essential for growth and for reducing budget deficits that member states define urgently measures capable of creating jobs on their territory. we call for the adoption of a 'fiscal pact' leading to a 'fiscal stability union' in the euro area and measures to strengthen the stabilisation instruments and provide the necessary financial resources to be preceded by a broad and transparent public debate process. on the energy front, the european council called for a swift agreement on the energy efficiency proposal and for the comprehensive nuclear safety review to be given priority. we welcome the request to the eu council to adopt the decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area as soon as possible, the european council once again recognising that all the legal conditions for taking this decision have been met.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on amending the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management as regards the multiannual financial framework to meet the additional funding needs of the iter project. the initial draft budget for nuclear research in the multiannual financial framework 2007-2013 is insufficient due to the substantial increase in iter project costs. the council, in its conclusions of 12 july 2010, confirmed the increased financial needs of the project and agreed on a limit of eur 6,6 billion (2008 value) of the european contribution to the construction phase of iter until 2020, including eur 1,4 billion for the period 2012-2013. the council agreement of november 2010 on the reallocation within the multiannual financial framework and the seventh eu research framework programme of eur 1,3 billion to cover iter's additional needs does not contradict and does not cancel the council's commitment to an overall european contribution to iter's construction costs of eur 6,6 billion. given the importance of the iter project for the eu's energy future, we support securing the additional commitment appropriations needed for the 2012-13 period.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on draft amending budget no 7/2011 of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii commission, as it seeks to mobilise from the eu solidarity fund (eusf) the sum of eur 38 million in commitment and payment appropriations to alleviate the effects of the earthquake that hit the region of murcia in spain and the floods in the region of veneto, italy. we support the rapid provision of financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to those affected by the earthquake in the region of murcia, spain and the floods in the region of veneto, italy. i consider it important that all stakeholders in member states affected by such natural disasters, both at local and regional level, as well as national authorities, assess as soon as possible the damage caused and the financing needs and improve coordination for possible future requests for the mobilisation of the eusf, in order to speed up the mobilisation of the eusf as much as possible. we regret that for the floods in the veneto region the eusf will only be mobilised 13 months after the end of october 2010, the period during which the aforementioned torrential rains occurred.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the earthquake in may this year in the murcia region of spain and the floods in the veneto region of italy in 2010 had a disastrous impact on both the population and infrastructure of the areas concerned. the direct damage in murcia was estimated by the commission, on the basis of calculations provided by the spanish authorities, at a total of eur 842,8 million, and in the case of the veneto region, the direct damage was estimated at eur 3717 million. i therefore consider it extremely important that financial assistance is provided quickly through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to those affected by natural disasters and i also share the rapporteur's concern that, as regards the floods in the veneto region, the mobilisation of the fund will only take place 13 months after the torrential rains that occurred at the end of october 2010. i believe that all stakeholders in the member states, both at local and regional level, and also national authorities, should better assess needs and improve coordination for possible future requests for the eusf in order to accelerate its mobilisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf), in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. unfortunately, europe is increasingly confronted with extreme events such as droughts, floods, forest fires and earthquakes. the eu and the member states must show solidarity with the people in regions affected by natural disasters. the eu's main tool for dealing with these disasters is the eusf, which complements member states' budgets for emergency measures such as the immediate restoration of infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, drinking water, wastewater, transport, telecommunications, health and education. spain submitted a request for funding following an earthquake in the region of murcia, with damages amounting to eur 842,838 million, and italy submitted a request for funding following floods in veneto, with damages amounting to eur 676,357 million. i support the mobilisation of the eusf for a total amount of eur 37 979 875: eur 21 070 950 for spain and eur 16 908 925 for italy, in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional individual support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade and to assist them in their long-term reintegration into the labour market. as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was extended for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to include support for workers made redundant as a result of the financial crisis. italy stated that the construction sector had been severely affected by the crisis and that demand for new housing had decreased drastically due to lack of funds. data available at eu level confirm the significant decline of this sector for seven consecutive quarters. i therefore support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to allocate eur 3 918 850 to the redundant workers in the trentino-alto adige/südtirol region. they also argue that the competent institutions should make the necessary efforts in the future to improve the procedural and budgetary mechanisms with a view to accelerating the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 3 918 850 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for italy, in respect of 643 redundancies (528 of which were assisted) in 323 construction enterprises in the trentino-alto adige/sudtirol region during the nine-month reference period from 1 march 2010 to 1 december 2010. in recent years, the construction sector has been severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. between 2008 and 2011, the italian market for new housing contracted by 35,5% and the public works market by 28,7%. since the start of the crisis, the construction sector in italy has lost 230 000 jobs. the economic and financial crisis has led to a sharp reduction in lending to the construction sector and a decline in demand for new homes, due to reduced consumer confidence and lack of funds. available data confirm that the construction sector in the eu-27 has been in decline for seven consecutive quarters (q1 2009 - q3 2010) compared to the same period in previous years, mainly due to the decline in private investment in the residential sector. i support the mobilisation of the egf, but i ask for data on the reintegration of beneficiaries into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right to information in criminal proceedings. the establishment of minimum common standards in criminal proceedings would help to respect the fundamental rights of eu citizens and overcome the difficulties encountered in applying the principle of mutual recognition in criminal cases, as a consequence of the lack of trust between judicial authorities. the main purpose of the proposal is to assert the right of the suspect or accused person to be informed of his or her rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that mutual recognition should be the basis of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters in the european union, so as to ensure the best possible protection of individual rights. mutual recognition is based on trust in the criminal and civil justice systems of other member states, which needs to be strengthened by creating detailed rules for the protection of the rights of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the right to information in criminal proceedings must be guaranteed in all member states. today, european citizens have the right to move and reside throughout the european union, but they must also abide by the rules of 27 often very different judicial systems. in this context, harmonisation of legislation on the provision of information to the accused in criminal proceedings is fundamental and ensures that the rights of european citizens are protected in any of the member states of the european union.
in writing. − it is normal for any person suspected or accused of having committed an offence in the european union to be promptly informed of his procedural rights in an easily understandable language. it is gratifying that we have succeeded in introducing into this proposal that suspects should be promptly informed of at least the following procedural rights: the right to be assisted by a lawyer, any right to free legal advice and the conditions for obtaining it, the right to be informed of the charge, the right to interpretation and translation. citizens can only fully exercise their rights if they know them, and the adoption of this report by our institution demonstrates once again that the european union is committed to strengthening the fundamental rights of its citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the directive so that those accused of committing a crime are informed of their rights in a language they understand. the directive applies regardless of the legal status of the accused within the eu. anyone who is remanded in custody (including on the basis of a european arrest warrant) will be informed of the reasons for his or her arrest and will receive a letter with his or her rights, which include: the right not to make statements, to have a lawyer, including on his or her own initiative, to inform the consular authorities and another person, for example a family member, to know for how long he or she is being held until brought before a judge, the right to emergency medical care and the right to access evidence in the case file (at the latest at the end of the criminal investigation, with certain exceptions on grounds of national security, the rights of another or an important public interest). the letter must also show how the lawfulness of the arrest can be challenged, what the appeal procedure is against the detention decision or how to apply for provisional release. the directive is part of a package of measures designed to ensure, at eu level, certain procedural rights for those accused of committing a crime in the area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on the european protection order. this directive will specify the measures which will continue to protect a person from a criminal offence, from another person who may endanger his life, physical or psychological integrity, dignity, personal liberty or sexual integrity. the ultimate objective is to prevent new criminal offences, reduce the consequences of previous criminal offences and strengthen the protection of victims.
in writing. − the european protection order aims to protect victims of gender-based violence against harassment, abduction or attempted murder. victims of crime who enjoy protection in one member state should now enjoy the same protection if they move to another member state. member states will have three years to transpose this directive into national law. these rules should also cover all victims of crime and criminality, not just victims of gender-based violence. most protection measures are granted to women who become victims of gender-based violence, but the european protection order can cover victims of any gender as well as other types of crime. the european protection order may also be applied for in respect of relatives of the beneficiary of the european protection order. these adopted rules will apply to victims or potential victims who need protection against a criminal act by another person which could in any way endanger the life, physical, mental or sexual integrity of the victim, as well as his or her freedom or dignity. such acts could include harassment, abduction, stalking and 'other forms of coercion'.
in writing. −in the coming years, europe will increasingly need to welcome new economic migrants, which will enable it to cope with demographic change. it is therefore desirable that the union should design its immigration policy as a means of regulating the need for labour on the community market, with a focus on the establishment of active policies to allow access to highly qualified workers on the one hand and to the least qualified on the other. however, i do not think it is in the interests of the european union to maintain restrictions on non-eu nationals who wish to pursue self-employed economic activities or those of micro and small enterprises, including cross-border professional activities, since these often cover activities in the service sector. europe is considering a series of actions to enable it to emerge from the crisis, which is why i believe we must give a chance to third country nationals who are willing and able to make their own contribution to the implementation of these objectives.
in writing. − i supported this new directive because i believe that it is better to have legal migration and the new legislation will allow foreign workers to obtain work and residence permits in the eu, granting similar rights to eu nationals in terms of working conditions, social security and access to public services. i am glad that the european parliament's amendments have been passed and that non-eu citizens and those registered as unemployed will be able to benefit from vocational training and education.
in writing. −the new single work permit legislation will allow foreign workers to obtain work and residence permits through a single procedure. i voted for migrants from non-eu countries who work legally in the eu to enjoy similar rights to eu nationals in terms of working conditions, social security and access to public services. member states will have two years to adapt their national legislation to the new rules. as a general rule, non-eu workers will enjoy the same access to social protection as eu citizens, but member states could apply restrictions to holders of employment contracts of less than six months. member states will also have the possibility to restrict access to public services, such as public housing, to foreign workers in employment. eu countries could apply their own specific restrictions to these rights. i voted for non-eu workers to receive pensions in their home countries under the same conditions and at the same rates as nationals of member states. at the same time, non-eu citizens and those registered as unemployed must benefit from vocational training and education.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that bureaucracy in the day-to-day management of businesses must be reduced. in this respect, i welcome the initiative to create the subcategory of micro-enterprises with a view to developing a legal framework adapted to their needs. in many cases, they provide the premises for economic growth at local level, in particular through development clusters. bringing together micro-enterprises with a similar activity object plays a crucial role in revitalizing disadvantaged areas. i believe that the establishment of a clear and simplified set of rules for drawing up annual accounts will foster the development of this category of enterprises. the definition of the exemption from the publication requirement is a necessary benchmark for the correct transposition of the directive. the adaptation of the european regime in this area to national and local economic specificities is also welcome.
in writing. − i consider this second reading agreement between parliament and the council to be a balanced one and a step forward in simplifying the obligations of micro-entities in respect of annual accounts. although very important, accounting requirements can sometimes be a source of unnecessary complications for micro-entities that do not have an extremely high turnover. as a result, overly stringent requirements represent an administrative burden that is disproportionate to their objective and prove to be counterproductive. i am glad that parliament has succeeded in persuading the council of ministers to raise the threshold for the applicability of the exceptions in respect of the net turnover to eur 700 000 instead of eur 500 000 as was previously intended, and from eur 250 000 to eur 350 000 in respect of the total balance sheet. thus, more micro-entities will be able to benefit from these exemptions which lighten their burdens and allow them to focus on their core activities, which is positive for their competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards micro-entities, council directive 78/660/eec on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, as i consider it important to reduce the administrative burden for micro-entities by simplifying the financial reporting rules applicable to them. according to the commission's estimates, the cost of complying with the current reporting requirements of the accounting directives is on average eur 1 558 per undertaking. it is estimated that companies would still spend around 25% of that amount, even in the absence of any legal reporting obligation, on the information needs of administrators and third parties. the commission therefore estimates that the remaining 75%, i.e. eur 1169 represents the approximate amount of the accounting burden of a company. i argue that it is important that member states should be able to exempt from the obligations laid down in the directive on the annual accounts of certain types of companies companies companies which, at the date of drawing up the balance sheet, do not exceed the limits of two of the following three criteria: balance sheet total: eur 500 000; net turnover: eur 1 000 000; average number of employees during the financial year: 10.
in writing. − it is a technical document on the mechanisms and conditions for providing financial support to member states in difficulty in the context of the economic crisis and sovereign debt. it includes some of the first corrections, brought about by the implementation of support measures in favour of countries such as greece, ireland, portugal and romania. the most important provision, which justifies my vote in favour of adopting this document, concerns the possibility of facilitating the management of union funding. in order to support the acceleration of investment in the member states and regions concerned and to increase the impact of funding on the economy, it is necessary to allow the eafrd contribution rate to be increased to 95% of eligible public expenditure in regions eligible under the convergence objective and to 85% of eligible public expenditure in other regions experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability.
in writing. − i believe that, in the context of the financial crisis, some member states are facing budgetary constraints that could prevent them from meeting their commitments under the co-financed community programmes. in this context, i believe that supporting the commission's proposal and speeding up the legislative procedure in a way that allows it to enter into force before the end of this year is in the interest of the rural economies of the member states concerned and in the wider economic interest of the european union as a whole.
in writing. − the risk of losing european payments in the budget years 2011 and 2012 due to missing national funds is serious, and should be taken into consideration. the eu commission proposed to top up the co-financing of rural development projects in countries like greece, ireland, portugal, latvia and romania. this will help to accelerate investments and consequently boost their economies. these co-financing rates will not increase the total amount, but will be applied only until the end of 2013. the year 2012 is very important from this point of view. we should see immediate results. i endorse the present report because it points out one of the problems that structural funds have and i believe it is of major importance. there is of course a risk of an overall reduction of the total amount that was programmed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. thus, in order to facilitate the management of union funding, to support the acceleration of investments in member states and regions severely affected by the crisis and to enhance the impact of funding on the economy, it is allowed to increase the eafrd contribution rate to 95% of eligible public expenditure in regions eligible under the convergence objective and to 85% of eligible public expenditure in other regions experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. this temporary increase in co-financing rates should be seen in the context of the budgetary constraints faced by all member states and those budgetary constraints should be reflected appropriately in the general budget of the eu. in addition, as the main purpose of this mechanism is to address specific current problems, it should apply for a limited period of time to the expenditure incurred by the paying agencies until 31 december 2013.
in writing. − the elimination of barriers to trade is one of the most important ways in which the european authorities can boost the competitiveness of the european union's economic players. free access to markets for european economic operators is a factor designed to boost their competitiveness and capacity for innovation and constitutes one of the priorities of the economic policy of the european union. it is the task of the european union, together with its trading partners and the european external action service, to define and renegotiate technical and quality standards so that they do not become anti-tariff barriers to access for union producers to external markets. negotiating transitional periods and consensual trade arrangements with the union's partners will stimulate european producers while protecting european production standards or geographical indications. the union must also insist on the principle of reciprocity just as non-union companies can participate in eu public procurement procedures, so european companies must have free access to tenders from authorities in foreign states. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that the world trade organisation is the most appropriate regulatory framework for free and fair trade globally. on the other hand, we need a reform of the way the wto operates and takes decisions so that the democratic deficit is eliminated. it is regrettable that several developing countries with a high degree of trade openness have suffered as a result of the economic crisis, in particular through job losses. i believe that the european union must be a strong player in the negotiations for the conclusion of the doha development agenda, by promoting the interests of the least developed or developing countries. we need to think about the needs of fragile states and create, through the wto, fairer rules for them.
in writing. − trade relations with countries around the world have always been and continue to be the basis for the development of economic relations at all levels with those countries. as these relations are often hampered by various obstacles, i think it would be useful if the european commission proposed to examine the possibility of establishing an early warning mechanism to detect such obstacles. as the european external action service is developing, i believe that the union should consider involving eu missions more closely, precisely in order to be able to identify such obstacles in good time and find solutions to avoid blockages in trade relations with third countries and, above all, blockages in the way of investors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, in addition to removing trade barriers that impede trade between the eu and its trading partners, we also need to achieve reciprocity in market access. in this way, we increase the chances of european firms gaining more market share abroad, which is important given that by 2015, 90% of global economic growth will be generated outside the eu and we need to help european investors seize all the opportunities that exist.
in writing. − i voted for the parliament's resolution on trade and investment barriers because i believe that the removal or reduction of unjustified non-tariff and other regulatory barriers applied by the eu's main strategic partner countries, through regulatory dialogue, should be one of the priorities of the eu's new trade policy. we invite the commission to address these issues in all multilateral and bilateral trade agreements, in particular free trade agreements, and to ensure that non-tariff barriers receive at least the same attention as is currently given to tariff elimination in all appropriate regulatory bodies, in particular in its negotiations with industrialised and emerging economies. i believe that due priority should be given to barriers to trade and investment affecting european service sectors, including information technology and telecommunications, financial services, construction services, retail and distribution. we call on the commission to pursue a cross-sectoral, comprehensive and sustainable strategy on raw materials, so that restrictions and duties on raw materials exports applied by some countries do not affect global economic development and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
on behalf of the alde group. i believe that this debate on the lisek report today is a significant debate for the future of the common security and defence policy. i would like to welcome a report on substance, a report which analyses the subject but also tries to offer solutions and which, beyond all this, is a report which offers the chance of cohesion in the field of security and defence policy. we now have the opportunity, to paraphrase al gore, to turn this crisis into an opportunity for the defense industry and for the future of our common security policy; but i cannot help stressing that this dramatic reduction in defence budgets in the member states may pose a risk to our common security, may maintain the already significant gaps between the united states and the nato member countries of the european union and may make the union vulnerable in terms of its ability to respond. i believe that the instruments we already have - and i am referring to the european defence agency - must be used in a meaningful way: we must increase its capacity to react and its capacity to integrate for this policy of 'pooling and sharing', which is the only solution for europe to have common capabilities, not to lose what it has, to ensure interoperability in the common defence system and to be effective in the missions it has and which, unfortunately, it is likely to have. i believe that europe has an obligation to build a common technological and industrial base, to use the research capacity that some of the member states have and to continue to give priority to honest procurement solutions, because one of the causes that has made these budgets vulnerable is the corruption issues in the defence procurement system. we already have a code of conduct, but we will have to use that code of conduct much more effectively and when we do succeed in making purchases, we will do so on grounds of expediency in the interests of european citizens.
mr president, the current effort to save the euro carries important security and defence implications which need our attention. first, the envisaged rigorous fiscal and budgetary discipline calls for continuing down-sizing of our defence budgets while security challenges continue to accumulate, including in our immediate neighbourhood. even if neither of those challenges is yet a threat, their accumulation, if unattended, might confront us with a dangerous and threatening mix in the future. second, europe is increasingly forced to sell its assets, and not always to a friendly buyer. again, if this is not attended to, we might end up with strategic european assets in the wrong hands. third, the effort to save the euro has already undermined the eu’s internal solidarity. with decision-making concentrated in the hands of the euro countries, suspicion and even recrimination have crept to the surface, potentially undermining our pooling and sharing effort. fourth, at a time when the us is diminishing its contribution to nato and talk about a smaller alliance has already been initiated across the atlantic, europe’s credibility – as both global actor and security provider – suffers.
the financial crisis has shown us more clearly than ever that we have two options: either division on the verge of european disintegration or enhanced cooperation. the second way is, at the level of this parliament, i think generally far preferable, firstly because in a globalised world it is the only way in which we can play a meaningful role. china's defense budget, which ms. gomes was talking about earlier, has increased in the last 10 years by almost 200%. in the meantime, the member states of the union are on the verge of reducing all their expenditure in this sector. the only logical solution is therefore better coordination of defence planning and a pooling and sharing of our capabilities. the intervention in libya has clearly shown us why we need to do this. in addition to our involvement in nato, i believe the time has come to build a true european defence capability. the report we are voting on proposes concrete steps to achieve this objective, and i would point out three elements among those steps: 1. the creation of a european semester of security and defence reviews; 2. strengthening the 'security' section of the framework programme for research and technological development; 3. the development of a military erasmus to facilitate the development of a common culture and approach to security. i would like to end by congratulating my colleague lisek on his excellent work.
i fully agree with our colleague lisek that the sharing and use of capabilities is no longer an option but a necessity. defense budgets are too small at the moment, so the best way to ensure military capabilities is cooperation. simulators, for example, can be used in rotation. plus, we can buy a lot more f-16s together. we already have two examples of how nato member states are using capabilities together: military transport planes, for which each country pays a certain number of flights, by charter, and maritime cooperation between france and britain, in which one provides the ports and the other the ships. the european air transport command initiative is a very useful example where the use of existing capabilities is optimised by transferring competences to a common structure. we need to adapt this model to other sectors of operational support, such as transport helicopters, maritime patrol aircraft and maritime transport capabilities.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for what has been a very important and very interesting debate, both covering specific issues and the general thrust of what we are trying to do. i wanted to apologise to ms vaidere, but she is not here. i was distracted because we got the news of the death of four people and 46 injured in liège in belgium, which has been unfortunately due to what looks like explosions. it flashed on my phone and i must confess that i was very shocked and had to look at it, but i do apologise for not listening for that moment. i would also like – because i did not do it earlier – to say thank you to ms andrikienė for the work that she did in 2010 on the human rights report. it was an extremely important and valuable document. i skipped over her name – and i do apologise for that – in the earlier part. i also want to make it clear that this is not meant to be the definitive strategy. the reason for that is simply that i want the european parliament to be involved and engaged with me as we drive this forward. you can never have a definitive moment in human rights where you say that we have actually got everything written down and everything covered, because situations change. as i have tried to argue in my contribution to it – and, yes, it did take time because i was not satisfied with some of the ideas and i wanted to push further and try out things and discuss and involve people as much as i possibly could within the service – we should look at how we can make it more effective and how we can take the relationships we have across the world and make sure that we use them to further the opportunities for democracy, peace, security and human rights for people across the world. so i hope honourable members will see it for what it is and what it is not. i do not pretend that it is a document seeking to give you all the answers, but rather to put down some thoughts that i hope will inspire further debate. colleagues have raised a number of specific issues and i am just going to comment on two or three of them. first of all, the issue of freedom of religion and belief. we have done a huge amount of work this year and it is an issue that honourable members have raised on a number of occasions and which, indeed, member states have raised in the foreign affairs council. i am very pleased that we were able to achieve the consensus on our un resolution promoting freedom of religion and belief. it is so significant that we take this forward. you will know that i have said it must be part of the reporting that we now carry out as part of our gathering together of information on human rights. i appreciate what mr howitt said about not all delegations being up to speed. i know that. we are at the beginning of building a service and trying to make sure that every delegation all over the world has the resources, the people, the training and the way of going about things. it is not yet complete. they would be the first to say that, and i would echo that. what i hope you appreciate is the commitment to try to get there, not just from me, but also from all the heads of delegation when i met with them most recently. the issues that concern lesbian, gay, transsexual and bisexual people are really issues of core importance to how we support people across the world. as honourable members know, i have a long and personal commitment on this issue, and i think it is core to what we do. i raise it with individual countries when i visit, and we also make many statements and promote the importance of this issue in everything that we do. for reference on the commonwealth – i am afraid that ms sinclaire did not wait for the answer either – i was a special guest of the commonwealth, which meant that while i was in australia i had the opportunity to address 53 ministers, to have 28 bilateral meetings and to take part in two events, particularly with ngos, on forced marriage and women as agents of change. on the way back, i also visited china and japan, especially to show our solidarity for the people of japan, still suffering from the effects of the tsunami. ms de keyser raised particularly the issues of other commission pieces of work, especially trade. again, i have tried to capture that a bit in my thoughts about how to bring together our human rights work right across the commission, so that in trade, in development – in everything that we do – it is part of the approach that we take, so i agree with you. again, i pay tribute to the work that you have done on this. on camp ashraf, mr stevenson, you have been tireless in pushing on this issue. i would say three or four things to you. firstly, we just have to be a little careful about what we say might happen. secondly, we are working very closely with the un on this. the un is in the lead. i have pushed through my discussions with the secretary-general and the special representative. i have met with the iraqi foreign minister on several occasions, and i have sent a special envoy to do a lot of work, not least with member states. as you rightly recognise, it is important that those member states who have nationals as residents in camp ashraf also need to be aware of what needs to happen. you will know, most recently, that i have indeed offered support to the un in every possible way, in terms of how we can make sure that people are properly monitored and can feel secure. but what we must be careful about is telling them that things may go wrong. what is important is to put it in place, so that they can feel confident in the un process properly looking after them. it is a real challenge for us, but that is what we have to do. i think you know that i have worked extremely hard to try to make sure that the eu properly supports this international and un process. i hope that this will see effect, as the un now moves forward to try to support people into the future that they want to see for themselves. mr karim, i will not answer on kashmir now, but i understand exactly what you were saying and perhaps we can talk about that. thank you for your comments about responding to your letters. i do try to respond to letters from members of the european parliament as quickly as i can in all cases. finally, mr belder, you raised iran. you know that we have done a lot of work with iran on human rights; we have sanctions against them for that. you know too that i watch with great interest and try very hard in my discussions with the iranians to persuade them to move away from the death penalty. in any country it is wrong. in every country we try to make sure that we oppose it as effectively as we possibly can. on any individual case that honourable members wish to raise with me, we will do our very best to let you know what we are doing. we follow all these cases where we possibly can – as many as we know about – both on the ground and within brussels, and we try our very best, not least with our partners across the world, to make sure that people’s rights are respected.
in writing. 2011 will go down in history as the year of change in the arab world. begun in 2010 and completed this year, the transformation in north africa has demonstrated that regimes that seemed unshakable can collapse under the pressure of the street and the international community, outraged by human rights abuses. in this context, the balance sheet and the signal for the future from developments in the arab world are encouraging. there are also some progresses in the fight against impunity, such as the extradition of former ivory coast president laurent gbagbo to the international criminal court, which give us reason to hope that international mobilisation can help to punish those who have been accustomed to brutally trampling on human lives and the fundamental rights of their fellow men. in this context, i express my appreciation for the involvement of the european external action service in the defence of human rights. the european union is the most important international player in this area. it is a position that also obliges us to step up our efforts to protect those persecuted by dictatorial governments and traumatised by barbaric violence, especially against human rights activists. in this respect, i believe that the eu's cooperation with the un high commissioner for human rights should play a major role in 2012.
the union increased the amount of money for the eastern neighbourhood policy by eur 1.24 billion. we now have about 7 billion euros. this money must be spent properly and must produce tangible and visible results. as head of the european union delegation to the parliamentary cooperation committee with the republic of moldova, i want to tell you that the principle of 'more for more' - 'more money for more reform' - is fair and vital. effort, result and merit matter and this is the case of the republic of moldova. at the last liberal democratic party congress held last sunday, prime minister filat reaffirmed his determination to remain faithful to the project of european integration and also stated that he would never ally himself with the communists. the european union is committed to the development of the union's energy sector and to the promotion of the union's energy sector. at this time, moldova needs political stability to consolidate democracy, rights and reforms. the break with communism is a complex and difficult process and we must stand with those who have embarked on this path of transition, from dictatorship and the lies of communism to democracy, the rule of law and welfare.
madam president, much attention has been given to the arab spring events – and rightly so – but this should not serve as an excuse for self-inflicted blindness when one looks east. at a time when soviet-style rule is making a comeback in ukraine and russia, the european union must not divert its attention from the east. the financial crisis has also encouraged an inward-looking policy that neglects our eastern neighbours. of course, democracy and the rule of law are not commodities, but there is a stock exchange for them. in other words, our stance will be noted and judged by the freedom-seeking peoples of russia, ukraine and belarus. if we are really seeking an effective strategy for our neighbours, we need high political commitment and concrete initiatives. we should, therefore, proceed with visa liberalisation – of course in a responsible way – which means, among other things, that a visa-free regime should not follow the ‘russia first’ principle. our eastern partners differ from our southern partners on account of their european identity and european aspirations. we should not only acknowledge their aspirations, but also – on merit – offer them an explicit membership perspective.
the neighbourhood policy is important for promoting the fundamental values and principles of the european union. given that it has been five years since romania and bulgaria became members of the union, i ask the commission to develop a european union strategy for the black sea. this region is of great importance in the european union's external energy strategy. i also stress the need for crossborder cooperation in the danube region, given that the european union's strategy for the danube region adds important value to the union's policy for eastern europe. i believe that the union's neighbourhood policy must be linked to the european union's regional and macro-regional development policy and to other union policies, such as transport policy. in the context of the ten-t review, i request that the industrial centres and maritime and inland ports of the member states bordering the danube become nodes of the ten-t core network. the inclusion of the galați-băila-macin conurbation in the ten-t core network will ensure not only the danube link to the black sea, but also multimodal links with the republic of moldova and ukraine.
i consider the request of the rapporteurs for clarification from the european commission on the complementarity between the civil society facility, the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the european neighbourhood instrument to be extremely important. i have mentioned on many occasions the need for good financing for the regions of the member states situated on the external borders of the european union and i still believe that substantial support is needed, ensured by careful complementarity and as effective as possible. border regions are particularly important for the european union and here we need a focused intervention that complements the impact of cohesion policy with the effects generated by the measures and financial support provided to the regions in the european union's neighbourhood. at the same time, we must be very careful not to overlap european finances so that we can manage the european budget as efficiently as possible.
the eu's neighbourhood policy involves a shared commitment to the values that underpin the community's construction: democracy, human rights, the rule of law, the fight against corruption, the market economy and good governance. as a member of euronest, i see the need to rethink our relations with the eastern partnership countries, supporting them in building and strengthening their democracies and economies. supporting civil society, ethnic and religious minorities, cross-border projects, developing bilateral and multilateral economic partnerships, launching major energy projects, and resolving conflicts in the region are all elements that can bring concrete benefits to citizens and have the potential to improve the political climate. welcomes the establishment of the eu high level advisory group in moldova, composed of international experts, which provides assistance in the framework of partnerships with key public institutions. it aims to support the implementation of reforms and to accelerate the process of european integration. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
in writing. the context created by the arab spring encourages us to revise our neighbourhood policy to include a significantly greater proportion of the democratic efforts of a state. it is in our interest to have neighbours who honour the same principles as ours: democracy, respect for human rights and freedom of expression. we must also not forget that the democratisation of a society promotes its social and economic well-being. i therefore welcome the new approach to the european union's neighbourhood policy, which aims to give more support to neighbouring states that are undertaking important democratic reforms. i would also like to stress the importance of partnering with civil society organisations to monitor progress. the latter must examine the work of governments, holding them to account where appropriate.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. it is in the european union's interest to be more ambitious in its neighbourhood policy. this has been a tumultuous year for the countries of the southern neighbourhood, but that does not mean that the countries of the east are not a priority. since the neighborhood policy was launched, a lot has changed. indeed, progress has been made recently. the european union does not want to impose itself as a model, but there are certain values that we should not abandon, even in this context. freedom of expression, as well as freedom of the press, are essential for the democratisation of the countries in the european union's neighbourhood. one key element is education. we need to build projects that are visible. for example, programmes that encourage youth mobility should be promoted. we must also stress the importance of regional policy. the arab spring and the changes taking place in our southern neighbourhood should not take us away from our eastern neighbours who have european aspirations.
in writing. i would like to welcome the presentation of the david/siwiecz report and to stress the need for a renewed and coherent approach by the union within the framework of the new european neighbourhood policy. it is first and foremost about consistency with our own values. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law are the common principles and objectives of the union and must indeed become common values shared by our neighbourhood partners. secondly, consistency in values must translate into consistency in policy action. we must therefore recognise the positive results of our neighbourhood policy - in the case of georgia and the republic of moldova - as well as the negative developments - in the case of belarus and ukraine - and draw the necessary conclusions. the eastern neighbourhood countries that have demonstrated a clear commitment to building genuine democracy and undertaking the necessary reforms should have a concrete european integration perspective. finally, consistency should characterize our approach to the whole neighbourhood. as i have emphasized here in the past, differentiation must be the basic criterion in both the southern and eastern neighbourhoods.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr perello, and all the members of the committee on the environment for their work and commitment in reaching this agreement at first reading. i welcome the agreement reached between the three institutions on the amendment of the fruit juice directive. this fruit juice directive contains a number of provisions which ensure the free movement of products within the european union, their quality and - as mr perello said - consumer protection. the compromise reached clarifies the key points, particularly as regards consumer information, and thus meets parliament's wishes on these points. i would also like to point out that this is one of the first proposals by the commission in the agricultural field which follows the ordinary legislative procedure established by the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i am particularly pleased that, thanks to a joint effort between our institutions, the discussions could be finalised at first reading. i think that was a very good experience for all that will follow in this ordinary procedure in the agricultural field. this proposal for a directive introduces a number of new provisions. it provides for a ban on the addition of sugars to fruit juices, and also specifies a period of time during which the consumer may be informed of this ban, as mr perello has said. some existing provisions have also been clarified. the provision on 'multifruit' juices has been revised so that the consumer is clearly informed by the name of the product in the list of fruits which make up the juice. the three institutions also agreed, at the request of parliament, that fruit nectars containing sweeteners could not bear the words 'without added sugar' on the labelling. at the request of parliament too, we introduced a new article to confirm that imported products must comply with the requirements of the directive, just as those developed in the european union. finally, other provisions, such as the distinction between straight fruit juice and juice based on concentrate, have not been aligned with the codex standard, which in this particular case is less demanding. we therefore remain more demanding on this point than the codex standards. this decision, approved by a large majority of member states and supported by parliament, is in line with our objective of encouraging better consumer information. with this agreement on the amendment of the fruit juices and similar products directive, we now have a legislative text which clarifies certain requirements of the current directive, enriches it with new provisions and thus fulfils the objectives which were set. in conclusion, i would like to give my agreement on behalf of the commission to the compromise which was reached and approved by coreper on 18 november. i therefore also hope that there will be a positive vote on this agreement which has been reached.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − this proposal for a directive aims to improve certain provisions concerning the composition, use of reserved names, production specifications and labelling of fruit juices in order to ensure better distribution within the european union. the report is the second amendment to directive 2001/112/ec and aims to make a better distinction between fresh fruit juices, concentrated fruit juices and nectars. i wanted to simplify the rules on flavour restoration and to remove the mention of sugar from the list of authorised ingredients. at the same time, there is a proposal to allow the words 'without added sugar' to appear on the labels of fruit juices for a limited period. as far as the producers are concerned, we must give them the time they need to adapt to this situation - the production of sugar-free juices - and to inform consumers of all products in all countries that they will find new products in stores without this mention, at the same time as those produced so far. we must not forget that they, the consumers, must be aware of all the changes brought about by the new directive, and last but not least i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very important report.
vice-president of the commission. - i thank you, mr president, and i thank all the members who took part in the debate. my cabinet together with the officials of my directorate-general, whom i thank for the work done in recent months took note of all the comments made also with regard to future activities in this important area. before concluding the debate, i would like to reiterate the commission's commitment to undertake a thorough review, by the end of 2014, of the proposed limit for household automatic dishwasher detergents, with a view to ascertaining its practicability and usefulness or the desirability of amending it. i hope that this will also answer the fears expressed by mr rijes, and also to emphasize that the principle of 'find model test' will continue to be part of our political action. i thank you all again for your cooperation, and i would remind you that phosphates are not a hazardous substance under the regulation under reach, which i do not consider to be the appropriate instrument for banning or guaranteeing these substances. i reiterate, there will be an evaluation in 2014, and any subsequent measures or additional amendments will have to be made to the sectoral regulation. however, for other chemicals in detergents or detergents, if our assessments show that further restrictions are appropriate, these will be introduced through the application of reach.
vice-president of the commission. - i think we have now clarified that there may have been some misunderstanding in the transition from one language to another, i agree. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in household washing machine detergents and to better harmonise the different national rules. phosphates end up in our water systems, rivers, streams, lakes and especially in the danube basin and the baltic sea. phosphorus in household laundry detergents and automatic dishwasher detergents (mav detergents) contributes significantly to the direct presence of phosphorus in water channels, causing eutrophication. i welcome the widespread consensus that in household laundry detergents the maximum amount of phosphorus should be set at 0.5 grams per dose for a standard load of laundry. expressing this limit in grams per load and not in percentage by weight, as originally proposed by the commission, will allow laundry detergent manufacturers to produce more compact, concentrated formulations that will not contain more than 0,5% phosphorus by weight of a current 'standard dose', but in which phosphorus (from phosphonates) could constitute more than 0,5% of the total weight; likewise for the inclusion in the proposal of household mav detergents, the limit should be set at 0,5% by weight.
in writing. i would like to welcome the outcome of the negotiations with the council on the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household detergents. i believe that these measures to limit the phosphorus content of detergent must necessarily be linked to improved waste water treatment, but also to improved agricultural techniques - agriculture is also a source of phosphorus for surface waters. the rapporteur's proposal to also focus on the feasibility of banning phosphates and the possible consequences of such a ban for industrial detergents is more than welcome if we really want to clean up european waters, but we must be realistic and recognize that at present this is not technically or economically possible. however, i believe that more investment is needed in identifying alternatives to phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in detergents to better achieve our environmental and public health objectives. in addition, i would like to draw attention to the fact that our efforts must not stop here and that we must promote this approach to limiting the phosphate content of detergents in other non-eu countries as well.
as the president of romania said last night, romania joins those who appreciate what the polish presidency has done in the last six months. i would therefore like to congratulate the polish presidency on its work and efficiency and to list some of the achievements and some of the very important decisions taken by this presidency: one is the increase in the budget available for the various eastern partnership programmes to eur 1.9 billion by 2013, which is very much appreciated, then we have the inauguration of similar erasmus programmes, which are aimed at students from the eastern partnership countries, which is extremely important for the future of young people, then we have the opening in warsaw of an academy of public administration for the training of officials from the eastern partnership countries. these are all practical tools to help civil society and the younger generation to become more aware of the benefits of integration and what the european perspective means.
the scoreboard for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances is a necessary element for the coordination of economic and social policies and for promoting convergence between member states. this instrument must contain a full analysis of these imbalances, including both current account deficits and surpluses. it must be borne in mind that maintaining significant and sustained current account surpluses creates obstacles to the adjustment policies that deficit economies must adopt. at the same time, the problem of competitiveness differences between member states cannot be remedied by reducing wages and social protection. such measures only serve to weaken society, promote poverty and economic stagnation. the european union needs massive long-term investment in infrastructure, technology and, in particular, green technology to encourage job creation and foster economic growth.
i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague mr lisek because i believe that the current financial crisis has also affected the defence sector in the member states. in these circumstances, there is an even greater need for planning coordination and complementarity between national policies. this will ensure optimal cost-benefit ratio and increase the union's competitiveness. i therefore believe that the challenge of the crisis can be turned into an opportunity to give the necessary impetus to a genuine common defence policy. i draw your attention to the recommendations in paragraph 22 on practical solutions for the sharing and use of military equipment. i stress the importance of cooperation with the us and nato to avoid unnecessary duplication of effort and to ensure increased efficiency.
i voted for this resolution because the eu-russia summit is an opportunity to openly address common interests as well as key differences. i trust that its potential will be used. a strong signal must be sent to russia that it needs to play an active and positive role in efforts to resolve frozen conflicts. in this context, i welcome the recent resumption of negotiations in the 5+2 format on transnistria. there is also a need for a consistent and coherent energy dialogue with russia. coordinated action is needed to address common concerns such as the spread of terrorism and the situation in afghanistan, but also to find common ground on syria and iran. it is also important to underline that we want russia to respect the rule of law and democratic standards, including in the preparation and conduct of elections.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a key element in the current reorientation of the european neighbourhood policy. i support the implementation of the human rights clause and the conditionality in the new approach. the monitoring of compliance with the conditions of the agreements with the union must be carried out annually, as i requested in the amendment to paragraph 8. strengthening the bilateral aspect is important for the exchange of good practice, as we have indicated in the proposed amendments to paragraphs 11 and 12. this provides the tools to resolve frozen conflicts in the neighbourhood. i would like to recall the resumption of negotiations between chisinau and tiraspol in the 5+2 format in vilnius on 30 november. the declaration signed by both parties provides the necessary framework for establishing the principles of the discussion. it is an opportunity for europe to consolidate its position from observer to full-fledged negotiator.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as council regulation (ec) no 1085/2006 of 17 july 2006 establishing an instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) (2) provides assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries with a view to their progressive alignment with union standards and policies, including the acquis, where appropriate, with a view to accession. the regulation also makes a clear distinction between candidate and potential candidate countries.
in writing. − amending the specific provisions of directive 2001/112/ec on the labelling of fruit juices and similar products is necessary to protect the interests of consumers, to ensure that fruit juices are clearly labelled. this labelling will have to take into account the new rules on authorised ingredients, such as those on added sugars, which are no longer allowed in fruit juices. consumers should be able to distinguish between types of products with confusing or ambiguous names. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr perello rodriguez on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2001/112/ec on fruit juices and similar products intended for human consumption.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i appreciate that good consumer information is essential, especially in the food sector. through labelling provisions, the new regulations bring more clarity and transparency to the content of fruit juices. i am thinking in particular of the rules on the list of ingredients, the sugar content and the amount of different fruit in each product. clear information on this topic is an important element for the health of consumers. they will be helpful to certain categories of people who suffer from specific conditions, such as diabetes. at the same time, they can also be important in promoting healthy eating, for example by helping to reduce the risk of obesity. i would stress that these elements are all the more necessary in the case of children, who are an important category of consumers of fruit juices. last but not least, i welcome the provisions on the indication of the origin of the main ingredients in juices. i appreciate that they can help to promote eu fruit and thus support european farmers.
in writing. − the new rules on fruit juices and certain similar products introduce for the first time a clear distinction between natural fruit juices and drinks containing added sugar. in adopting this report we are not seeking to make a choice for the consumer, but merely to ensure that the latter is fully informed when choosing the product. given that the fruit juices and other similar products sector is a significant industry in the european union, the revised rules on the composition and labelling of these products and a clear indication of added sugar will ensure a high level of quality for all products marketed within the union and will contribute to the improvement of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption. it is necessary to support the european sector by adapting the directive to international law and the codex and by establishing the same rules for all products marketed in the eu. the aim is to promote the free movement of these products, but also to clarify legislation on their labelling and classification, authorised ingredients and the admissibility of certain practices. the revision of the proposal will therefore also benefit imported products currently marketed in the european union. the new directive will give third country producers the opportunity to improve product quality through more sustainable production processes. uniform rules for all actors will also prevent fraud and unfair competition and help clarify the information provided to consumers.
in writing. − we supported the new changes, as the labels for juices will be much clearer in the future. juice mixtures, for example, will reflect the exact proportions of the composition. thus, a mixture of 90% apples and 10% oranges will have to be clearly labelled 'apple and orange juice', whereas such mixtures are currently marketed with the label 'orange juice'. labels such as 'juice mix' will only be used if three or more types of fruit are present. i believe that all of this clarification will be extremely helpful to people who suffer from diabetes or who are on a diet.
in writing. − the aim of this legislative proposal is to amend council directive 2001/112/ec by incorporating more of the provisions of the codex alimentarius standard. the parliament’s draft report suggests that the rules arising from adaptation of the directive to the codex should be equally applicable to all products marketed within the eu, regardless of whether they are produced in the eu or imported. the commission and the member states shall carry out information campaigns to inform consumers of the different categories of juices and similar products. concerning the issue of flavour reconstitution, i support the commission’s proposal that it should remain optional. the report suggests limiting the commission’s powers to adopt the delegated acts from ‘an indeterminate period of time’ to five years with the possibility of proceeding to a tacit renewal. moreover, an 18-month transition period added to the transposition period would serve to use up stock manufactured according to old standards and to adapt to new rules. adapting the directive to the codex alimentarius standard will allow the same criteria to be applied to products manufactured in the eu and to imported products. consequently, consumers will no longer be confused on the safety and quality of juices.
in writing. − we have had many discussions in the environment committee over the last few years about the labelling of food and drink. broadly speaking i think that eu legislation is ensuring clearer and more accurate labelling for the consumer and is helping people to make informed choices about what they eat and drink. this directive adds to that, specifically by requiring the labelling of natural sugars in fruit nectar and by clarifying the rules around ‘no added sugar’ claims. clear and honest labelling is one of the main tools we have to tackle diet-related problems in the eu, and whilst the food information to consumers regulation and the health and nutrition claims regulation provide most of the legal framework for this, additions are sometimes necessary. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts to negotiate with the council and congratulate him on this report.
in writing. − i supported this report primarily because it brings considerable improvements for certain categories of consumers, such as people with diabetes, children or people with health problems caused by excess weight. in the context of diabetes being one of the health challenges of the 21st century, i can only welcome the improvements made to this directive. for diabetics - and i'm talking about people diagnosed with type 2 diabetes - blood sugar is very important. so i'm pleased that after six months of negotiations with the council, an agreement has been reached that improves not only the labelling but also the quality of fruit juices. the fact that added sugar will be banned for fruit juices is an achievement for people who need to control their sugar intake in the body, but it is also an achievement for the improvement of the health of union citizens in general. the proposed measures are to the benefit of both consumers, who will have access to comprehensive information, and juice producers, who have wanted to reinforce the idea that juices are part of a healthy diet and can be consumed as such.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal to amend directive 2001/112/ec on fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption, as i believe that the implementation of the new provisions will better protect consumers' interests and stimulate the free movement of fruit juices within the eu. the eu fruit juice market accounts for 10% of total consumption of soft drinks and the production of concentrated fruit juice is predominant over the direct juice production (87,6% and 12,4% respectively). the specific provisions and rules on the production, composition and labelling of fruit juices laid down in directive 2001/112/ec need to be adapted to technical progress and take account of the evolution of international standards in this field, in particular the codex standard for fruit juices and nectars (which lays down quality factors and labelling requirements) and the code of good practice of the european fruit juice association. the amendments to the directive aim to align with those standards and reaffirm the distinction between fruit juice and fruit juice obtained from concentrate, simplify the provisions on the restoration of taste and aroma and include tomatoes in the list of fruits and vegetables used for the production of fruit juices.
in writing. − i voted for the report by my colleague newton dunn because ensuring water quality is an essential component of a healthy environment. i believe that innovation in the chemical components of detergents should be encouraged. the long-term development of technologies for the recovery of phosphorus from waste water is also needed. given the long life cycle of these substances, measures are necessary to reduce their negative impact on groundwater and marine life. the phasing out of phosphates from detergents, accompanied by pathway assessments, should be undertaken as part of an accelerated process of developing eco-friendly substitutes. i would stress the obligation to inform consumers correctly about the chemical composition of detergents. in this respect, mentions of recycling and environmental risks will increase public awareness in this area.
in writing. − when talking about household laundry detergents, i.e. those used in dishwashers, there must be a balance between the substances used in detergents to ensure their effectiveness and the impact of those substances on the environment. in the case of phosphates and phosphorus compounds, there is a risk of degradation of ecosystems and of algal growth, which needs to be managed. the agreement struck achieves such a balance by limiting the phosphate content of detergents and dishwashers, and in particular by limiting their application over time. it is clear that limiting the phosphate content has the effect of encouraging innovation and the introduction of detergents that are equally efficient but have a lower environmental impact. we must allow time for the development of such substitutes. therefore, i fully support the solution reached for dishwasher detergents, for which the limitation applies from 2017, which leaves enough time for the development of new products, but also for the reporting by the commission, so that we can see if the proposed limit is relevant.
in writing. - i voted for the amendment of the regulation concerning the use of phosphates and other phosphorus compounds in household laundry detergents. one of the main objectives of the regulation is to reduce the amount of phosphorus used in household detergents. instead of a directive, the commission has opted for a regulation to better harmonise the different rules at national level. to clean up europe's waters, we need to reduce the amount of phosphorus that reaches our continent's waters and indeed the world's waters. phosphorus in household laundry detergents contributes significantly to the direct presence of phosphorus in water channels. the commission's proposal is therefore welcome.
in writing. − i believe that manufacturers should be prohibited from misleading consumers by mentioning features which are in fact required by union legislation. i believe that the mention 'free of phosphates' should not be allowed for the product categories for which the phosphates ban is already in force.
in writing. − phosphorus contributes to the development of life, algae and other plant life, and thus to the eutrophication of water. phosphates are used in detergents to counteract the hardness of water, to allow efficient cleaning and to improve the cleaning performance of detergents. a number of member states already have restrictions on household laundry detergents, and some are introducing restrictions on mav (dishwasher detergents). at eu level, however, legislation is not harmonised, the internal market for detergents is fragmented and difficulties are encountered in the eu's attempts to reach agreements with member states on the reduction of phosphorus in detergents for washing machines and dishwashers in regional water-cleaning initiatives such as the baltic sea action plan, helcom and the danube strategy. the inclusion of mav detergents in the regulation can help to accelerate the campaign against eutrophication, but also to reduce job losses in smes producing phosphate-rich mav detergents and not yet having the knowledge and technology to produce them without phosphates. since there are no statistics on the number of jobs at risk, i ask the commission to draw up a study on this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco. the protocol sets out the fishing opportunities available to eu vessels based on available surplus, as well as the financial contribution paid by the eu for access rights and support to the sector. another function of the protocol is to form a framework for a general partnership between the two parties, in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy. the fisheries sector has long been an important economic pillar for morocco, which is considered the largest fish market in africa.
in writing. − i voted against the extension of the agreement for the following reasons: 1. this agreement shall not be debated in parliament two months before its expiry. by voting against, parliament has sent a signal against this type of practice. 2.the agreement is commercially disadvantageous to the european union. i am in favour of concluding an agreement with morocco on fisheries, but this agreement must be a partnership agreement, beneficial for both parties, and, above all, it must be concluded in accordance with democratic procedures, and therefore involve parliament.
in writing. − the economic crisis has forced all member states to cut spending, and one of the first areas affected was defence. it is clear that there must be some coordination at community level on budgetary cuts in this area which shows the extent of military capabilities at european level. the economic crisis is, on the other hand, a good teacher. all european states have learned some pretty important lessons from it, and one might be that there needs to be better coordination at the european union level in the field of defence. defence and security are key areas and represent a strategic area. we can develop joint strategies on specific issues that concern the defense industry. we want more cooperation between the eu and nato, between which we hope to see standardization and interoperability. i think the european defence agency should play a bigger role in this. i hope that a single european defence market will be established. i'm a little disappointed with the results of the last defense ministers' meeting on november 30th. it did not support the creation of a european headquarters to allow europe to act quickly in cases such as the libyan crisis.
in writing. − the current economic crisis has had a major impact on the defence sector. many weapons programs are in danger of being canceled or have even been canceled. the recent nato intervention in libya has exposed many of the limitations of the eu member states' militaries. we are obliged to do more and faster to build a genuine european arms industry. this would eliminate many parallels, avoid waste of resources and allow for better use of production capacities. i think that more attention should be paid to the future needs of the eu countries' armies, drawing on the lessons of recent conflicts and new geo-political data. we are, i think, aware that our nations will not accept an increase in military spending in the context of drastic cuts in budget spending. that's why we need to spend defense money with the utmost care on well-defined programs designed to address the challenges we face. the best level of military spending must be identified, a level that ensures our security in the medium and long term without wasting human and material resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because defence is a public good that has an impact on the security of all european citizens and all member states must contribute in a spirit of cooperation, shared responsibility and cost efficiency. the financial crisis has led to unprecedented cuts in defence budgets in most member states, which can have negative effects on the eu's ability to maintain peace, prevent conflict and strengthen international security. for this reason, i believe that a strengthened european defence capability will increase the eu's strategic autonomy and make an important contribution to collective security in the context of nato and other partnerships. i also believe that the economic crisis we are facing today can be an opportunity for the integration of eu defence policies, as this can provide the necessary impetus for the creation and implementation of ambitious reforms. i therefore support the call for the development of eu defence policies leading to sound research and technological and industrial cooperation between member states to strengthen the competitiveness and resilience of the defence industry.
in writing. − following the financial crisis, there have been significant cuts in defence budgets in most member states. this may have negative effects on the military capabilities and therefore on the eu's ability to effectively assume its peacekeeping responsibilities. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by krzysztof lisek. an analysis of the possibilities to provide support to member states for the achievement of the objectives of the common security and defence policy in a more cost-effective manner is necessary. the current situation may lead to the loss of certain military capabilities that are vital for the security of european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the impact of the financial crisis on the defence sector in the eu member states, which notes with concern that recent budget cuts represent the continuation of a pattern of underinvestment and underspending in security and defence, which has persisted in the member states for over a decade. promoting a european defence technological and industrial base can create sustainable jobs for european citizens in the eu defence industries. i stress that security research must be retained as an independent component in the next horizon 2020 programme. the area of study of security-related topics should also be broadened to reflect the need for the transfer of innovation and technology between the civil and defence industries. as civil research results often have defence applications, defence research results often benefit society as a whole, as is the case with the internet and gps. we believe that in the long term, greater attention to defence research could be considered in the next framework programmes, in order to stimulate collaborative european research and to help pool disparate national funds.
in writing. − this year marks the 20th anniversary of the dissolution of the ussr, an event that has geopolitically reconfigured the entire european continent. today we are faced with a clear interdependence between russia and the eu, both economically and politically, at a time when enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe and beyond. the eu remains committed to deepening and developing relations with russia, but with a deep commitment to democratic principles. it is clear that the development of a privileged relationship with the russian federation requires the conclusion of a strategic partnership agreement between the two parties. the eu and russia should use the upcoming summit to give new impetus to the negotiations on a comprehensive partnership and cooperation agreement, covering political, economic and social aspects and including all aspects of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the eu needs to show strong internal solidarity in negotiating an agreement with russia, since the security of the entire union's energy supply depends on it.
in writing. − the democratization of political life in russia is an important issue to which the eu attaches paramount importance. we don't care who's in charge in moscow, what legitimacy and popular support he has. after the elections, a section of civil society questions the fairness of the elections and expresses its dissatisfaction in the streets. it is important that the moscow governors give clear answers to their objections. the attempt to make the west the scapegoat for these demonstrations is not justified. the efforts of russian citizens towards democratization are good news and should be supported. it is also in russia's interest to have such a process, because it will foster the expansion of bilateral relations. the eu is open to moscow, it is honouring its commitments and expects the russian side to do the same. russia is an important country, has its place in the european security architecture and is an important economic partner of the eu. i hope that the eu's actions will not produce the stereotypical responses that come directly from the cold war years. we want a partner we can rely on, a partner we can work with for the long term, without ideological or other constraints. we want a democratic russia, a russia of civil rights and freedoms.
in writing. − i voted for the s&d resolution on the eu-russia summit. i consider the economic and trade relations of the european union with russia to be interdependent. it is in our interest to be open to a partner with a significant share of our trade, third only to the united states and china. russia is an important emerging market which needs western technology and the union needs russian resources and markets. let us not forget energy cooperation, which must be a central pillar of the negotiations between the two partners. the european union is the largest consumer of russian energy, and russia is the largest supplier of energy to the european union. it is an interdependence that does not justify an arbitrary power cut by the russian federation. therefore, we need to have clear guarantees from russia that this type of situation will not happen again.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-russia summit of 15 december 2011 because enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe. the conclusion of a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and the russian federation is of paramount importance for the development of a genuine strategic partnership. security of energy supply is one of the eu's biggest challenges and one of the main areas of cooperation between the eu and russia. i stress the importance of energy cooperation, as it is an opportunity to deepen economic and trade cooperation in an open and transparent market, taking into account the eu's policy of diversifying transport channels and energy suppliers. the principle of transparency must underpin this cooperation, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, and a legally binding framework to guarantee the reliable and regular supply of energy to all eu member states, based on equal standards. we call on the council and the commission to ensure that the new eu-russia partnership agreement includes the principles of the energy charter treaty and the protocol on transit annexed thereto.
in writing. − it is in the eu's best interests to be ambitious and pragmatic in economic cooperation under the european neighbourhood policy, but also to adopt a mutually beneficial, responsible and flexible strategy. the eu is a living organism, learning from its own failures and mistakes, and for this reason it is clear that the european neighbourhood policy must be based mainly on values, i.e. zero tolerance towards authoritarian regimes in the southern neighbourhood. we need to go beyond security and immigration control when it comes to non-eu states across the mediterranean and add to the neighbourhood policy an important component of cooperation that puts democracy and prosperity first. the eu's neighbours have recently faced political and social challenges in addition to economic ones. in addition to humanitarian objectives, it is a pragmatic objective to help these countries reduce unemployment rates and offer hope for the future to the people of the eu's neighbouring countries. the eu must encourage the european aspirations of some of its non-eu partners and stimulate their commitment to building a sustainable democracy. to stimulate them, a timely review of the european neighbourhood policy is needed.
in writing. − we voted for this report as we believe that the strategic review of the enp should reflect a stronger political commitment by all partners to shared values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and good governance. i am convinced that this process will give a new impetus to this policy and lead to a further improvement in the eu's relations with its neighbouring countries. i also believe that we must recognise the european aspirations of partners who have committed themselves to building a sustainable democracy and to ensuring a permanent dialogue to encourage all the reforms that are being undertaken, taking account of the level of economic development and the specific characteristics of each partner country. last but not least, i believe that the enp should continue to be revised in the light of the progress made by these countries and in the light of certain issues of common interest.
in writing. − within the european neighbourhood policy, the objectives of development cooperation, in particular poverty eradication, must be given increasing importance in order to ensure the stability of these regions of major impact for the european union. efforts to democratise are directly conditioned by improving the living conditions of citizens, creating a strong civil society, ensuring freedom of the press and strengthening democratic institutions. in the context of the economic crisis, there is a risk that intensive migration from the eu's southern and eastern neighbourhood could constitute a factor of internal tension, as happened in the case of the refugee crisis on the island of lampedusa. it is a situation from which we must draw the necessary conclusions to adapt eu policies in this area, in order to avoid it becoming a precedent. there is a strong link between migration and the development of the southern and eastern partner countries. in this sense, i believe we can turn migration into a bridge of dialogue and cooperation. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the need to step up cooperation with the eastern partners to avoid the risk of neglecting this dimension of the neighbourhood policy. the controversial elections in transnistria on sunday remind us that, in the immediate vicinity of the eu's borders, this frozen conflict remains a major risk factor for european stability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the neighbourhood review report because i considered the new approach proposed by the european commission, according to which the european union will give more support to those states which are implementing important democratic reforms, to be positive. i also support the establishment of benchmarks to analyse the situation in each neighbouring state with regard to the implementation of democratic reforms, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − promoting relations with civil society in third countries, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy (enp), is an important component of enp. i also believe that it would be beneficial if joint projects could be developed and implemented in the beneficiary countries of the european neighbourhood policy, involving the organisations of employers, farmers, women and consumer protection associations concerned, to raise awareness of their rights in those countries. the european union is already implementing programmes involving young people and university teachers from the enp countries, which should allow cooperation in various fields in the future to train the qualified staff needed for the intergenerational exchange of staff.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because respect for and promotion of democracy and human rights are fundamental principles and objectives of the eu, which must constitute common values at the heart of the revision of the european neighbourhood policy. the eu's major interest is to show ambition in economic cooperation and to adopt a win-win, responsible and flexible strategy based on supporting democratic transitions and protecting human rights. i consider it essential to ask the commission to continue developing the eu black sea strategy, given its importance in the eu's external energy strategy, due to its geostrategic role which gives it a significant potential for energy security and diversification of supply. they also support the importance of crossborder cooperation in the danube region, given the region's status as europe's gateway to the western balkans, and the role of the eu strategy for the danube region in improving neighbourhood relations in central and south-eastern europe. last but not least, i believe that a good development of the danube strategy is an excellent way for the whole union to develop its political and economic cooperation in the balkans and to contribute to the extension and strengthening of the european integration process in the region.
in writing. − i voted for the parliament's resolution on the revision of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) which recognises that the revision of the enp provides the eu with a good opportunity to effectively fulfil its obligations and promote its values. the report focuses on strengthening democracy and partnership with societies, sustainable economic and social development, association agreements, sectoral cooperation, mobility and the regional dimension, and not least on the financing of the european neighbourhood policy. we believe that the new approach to the enp must take account of the eu's macro-regional strategies. the potential of the eu macro-regions, which include the eu's neighbouring states, should be fully exploited to better coordinate the priorities and projects of common interest for the eu and the enp states, with a view to achieving positive outcomes for both sides and optimising the resources invested. in this regard, i draw attention to the importance of the enp both for the successful implementation of the eu strategy for the danube region and for a future eu black sea strategy. parliament regrets that a large percentage of the available enp funds is spent on consultancy rather than on projects and programmes and calls, in this regard, for a rapid rebalancing of their use under the new instrument.
in writing. − one finding in the report should be of particular concern: the widening and strengthening of links between terrorist circles and organised crime. it is a major challenge for counter-terrorism and organised crime agencies and requires even greater cooperation between these services at european level. i also believe that it is urgent to unify the laws of the member states in the areas covered by the report in order to facilitate the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i note with satisfaction the attention given to combating terrorist financing sources as well as cyberterrorist networks. i fully support the call to the european commission to assess the counter-terrorism policy package and to focus the measures taken on future challenges, including the reform of europol and eurojust, in the light of the new possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty, as well as the need for uniform standards for evidence-gathering and investigation, the full deployment of joint investigation teams, a stronger eu framework for judicial and police training, and appropriate inclusion and integration policies.
in writing. − the european union has increasingly been the target and victim of terrorism over the last century and faces a more present threat than ever. terrorism remains a serious threat to international peace and stability and to european societies. a coordinated global response between the eu and its strategic partners is therefore needed. this must be done in full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the fight against terrorism also requires a comprehensive approach based on all available means: information, police, judicial, political and, in some cases, even military. the role of the european union in managing crises and disasters caused by terrorism will need to be further strengthened, in particular by developing the eu's rapid reaction capability, building on existing civil protection and humanitarian instruments.
transparency is essential for the link between citizens and the european institutions. it contributes to strengthening the legitimacy of the union. the treaty guarantees the right of public access to european parliament, council and commission documents, but the exercise of this right requires an appropriate legislative framework. although it supports increased transparency, the epp political group of which i am a member cannot support mr cashman's report in its current form. some of the proposals go beyond the provisions of the treaty and the existing interinstitutional agreements. significant negative effects can arise if unrestricted public access to all documents and information of the european institutions is imposed. in the case of ongoing legislative procedures, the negotiations often needed to reach an agreement will be affected. transparency is important but it should not be achieved at the expense of security and respect for privacy. i consider that, in the form proposed, personal data, trade secrets, classified or sensitive information do not enjoy adequate protection. moreover, from a practical point of view, implementation risks being very difficult, given the extremely high number of documents concerned.
madam president, i believe that this 2001 regulation must be updated. article 1 of the treaty provides that decisions should be taken as openly and closely as possible to the citizens. i am in favour of a more inclusive list of eu institutions being covered by the new regulation. every european citizen has the right to access eu documents and this right should be respected. the exceptions must be subject to guidelines that are harmonised across all eu institutions and justified in the public interest. these guidelines must be clear, accessible, predictable and easy to understand and implement. i would like to make a second point about lobbyists. all information relating to lobbyists must be made public. otherwise we are speaking about corruption and not about lobbying. i would like to make a third comment. i take this opportunity to again request the commission to ensure real transparency concerning the beneficiaries of the eu funds in the member states, on its website, in one of the three working languages, and on the basis of common criteria. this is also access to information, and we need to know how eu money is spent in the member states.
the european maritime safety agency has already demonstrated that certain tasks - such as satellite monitoring systems - can be carried out more effectively at european level. in order to develop innovative applications and services and to improve existing applications and services, as well as to create a european maritime area without borders, the agency should exploit the potential of the egnos, galileo and gmes programmes. the completion of the union's internal market should make greater use of short sea shipping and, including through the 'blue belt' project, reduce the administrative burden on the shipping carrier. the agency should also assist the commission and the member states in the development and implementation of the union's e-maritime initiative, which aims to increase efficiency in the maritime sector through better use of information technology. within its competences, the agency should also act beyond its territory, promoting the union's maritime safety policy through research cooperation.
we welcome the roadmap for a single european transport area and i congratulate the rapporteur. i ask the commission to ensure that its proposals on market opening do not lead to social dumping, the creation of private monopolies, the deterioration of social and working conditions and the deterioration of the quality of european transport services. we therefore ask the commission to take into account the development needs of transport infrastructure in the new member states in the future multiannual financial frameworks, so that by 2030 the transport infrastructure in the new member states will have recovered the development gap with the transport infrastructure in the other member states. i draw attention to the still under-exploited transport potential in the danube and black sea regions and call on the commission and the member states bordering the danube to exploit this potential by developing multimodal terminals and modernising danube river ports, as well as by developing...
transport is not confined to one country and therefore strong international cooperation is needed for action in this sector to be effective. unfortunately, one of the main obstacles to the creation of a single european transport area is the wide disparity in the level of development of transport infrastructure between the eastern and western regions of the european union. for this reason, i believe that the regions which are lagging behind should continue to receive substantial community funding for transport infrastructure. improving accessibility and infrastructure facilities will significantly contribute to the competitiveness of these regions and, indirectly, to the external competitiveness of the european union as a whole.
in writing. the mobility of european citizens within and outside the european union, both for professional and private reasons, is not possible without an adequate transport network, whether by air, river, sea or road. in addition, transport is a sector that provides jobs for some 10 million europeans and the prospect of further development of this sector will allow for the creation of new jobs in all member states. to make this a reality, the union and the member states must work together as closely as possible to implement the european directives in this field and, in particular, to develop and implement new investments that can make a significant contribution to the much-needed economic recovery. in addition, an appropriate policy for the training of all those working in the field is needed to ensure that this important sector is not affected by a shortage of qualified personnel. i also believe that it would be beneficial for the european union to periodically analyse the state of progress towards the proposed objectives, precisely in order to be able to find solutions in good time to any problems that arise in the implementation of european directives.
public trust, as well as international cooperation in criminal matters, depends on the quality of national legal systems. europeans must be confident that they will have the same standards of protection no matter where they are in the european union. conditions of detention have an important impact on the proper functioning of the mutual recognition of judgments. overcrowded prisons and inadequate treatment of prisoners can lead to a weakening of trust, which is essential for judicial cooperation in the european union. so i think we need to identify good practices, we need to have pilot projects on detention and good practices in prison management. the most important thing is to determine the best direction for this reform and to what extent a binding instrument at european level is feasible. we therefore call on the commission today, as we have done on other occasions, to take urgent action in this area.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would thank honourable members very much for their remarks. the commission, as i said, is beginning to evaluate the comments which have been made in response to the green paper. the commission will also carefully analyse your remarks and take them into account when it proposes legislation or considers proposing legislation.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i would like to thank you for bringing this up in today's debate. indeed, on the one hand, the union does not have the competence to harmonise the rules on the detention of prisoners and those temporarily detained in prisons. on the other hand, the issues you have raised are extremely important and the council will certainly examine them carefully if the commission proposal touches on any of the issues raised. i must also say personally that these examples of irregularities in the functioning of various regulations are very important issues, also from the point of view of the polish government. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission for the green paper, which is an example of the eu institutions trying to find a solution to this problem, despite the fact that they do not have the necessary powers. thank you for your attention.
the reporter. − the european parliament was asked to give its consent to a protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and uzbekistan so that trade in textiles would benefit from an appropriate legal framework. it is currently lacking, as textiles were a sensitive point in the 1990s negotiations for partnership and cooperation agreements with the countries of the former soviet union. the protocol in question seeks to include textiles in the agreement, so that the legal security of exporters from the european union is guaranteed. beyond this general context, however, there is a serious problem to which the european parliament cannot fail to react: the allegations of the use of child labour in the cotton fields of uzbekistan. this is the main reason why, following the discussions in the commission, i decided to draw up this interim report. uzbekistan ranks fifth in the world in cotton production and third in cotton exports. according to several reports by the initiative group of human rights activists in uzbekistan, conducted in partnership with the international civil rights forum, as well as the uzbek-german human rights forum or the non-governmental organization anti-slavery international, in uzbekistan the political and economic systems are controlled by the state. cotton is produced on private farms, but the harvested cotton must be sold to state-owned firms at a price set by the state. according to the same reports, government agencies are mobilizing children as a cheap source of labor during the cotton harvest. estimates range from 200,000 to 2,000,000 children between the ages of 9 and 15, and the state sets the cotton quotas, and these must be met. schools are obliged to send children to the cotton fields. administrative staff and teachers who refuse to obey risk losing their jobs. families of children who refuse to work are subjected to pressure from the police and the prosecutor's office, who threaten to withhold pensions and social benefits, cut off electricity, gas, and water, and even arrest, detain, and prosecute family members of those who do not comply. many schools, especially those in agricultural areas, are closed from september to november or december. thus, children in these schools miss two to three months of schooling each year. the uzbek government denies the existence of these problems and says that they are related to family farming activities. following constant allegations of forced child labour, the uzbek government was forced to ratify the two ilo conventions on child labour in 2008, after which it approved the national action plan for their implementation. over time, several international organizations such as the un and ilo have expressed concern about the use of forced child labor in uzbekistan. however, the uzbek government does not allow independent international observers to enter the country during the harvest season to verify the application of iom conventions. as rapporteur, i've tried to meet with all the parties involved in this agreement. i regret that it was not possible to have an exchange of views in the inta committee with the uzbek ambassador to the eu, although he was invited repeatedly. i think it might have given us a glimpse of the situation inside. unfortunately, the bilateral meeting i was able to have with the ambassador was not very constructive either. on the other hand, i would like to thank my colleagues for being open to the concerns expressed by the european parliament and thank them for their valuable contribution to the final form. i believe that we have succeeded in obtaining a balanced report through which we ask the council to support the request of the ilo to uzbekistan to accept a high-level tripartite observer mission, with full freedom of movement, to assess the application of the ilo conventions. i would like to refer, finally, to the petition initiated by the anti-slavery organization calling for the end of trade preferences. last week i had the opportunity to meet some students from isbourne who came to the european parliament with members of anti-slavery to ask the european union to protect children's rights. and i must tell you, mr. president, that after this debate is over, i will be handing you a petition signed by 13,379 people asking for this.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank the honourable members for this very serious and important debate. let me focus on the course to suspend the generalised system of preferences (gsp preferences). on behalf of the commission i take note of the references made to the generalised system of preferences of which uzbekistan is currently a beneficiary. the gsp is an incentive-based tool to support development. its aim is to help developing countries to advance towards a better respect of international conventions on human and labour rights as well as to lock in essential reforms in these fields. the gsp preferences can be withdrawn from beneficiaries in cases of serious and systemic violations of the principles that are laid down in international instruments such as the core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions. we will continue to keep the situation under review, given that the legal conditions for suspension are not presently met, and we shall act accordingly. in the meantime, we will intensify the constructive dialogue we have with uzbekistan to help the ilo gain access to uzbek cotton fields. we very highly appreciate the cooperation with parliament in this regard.
the reporter. - first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken in this debate. i thank them for their words. i think we can only draw one conclusion from this debate today: parliament cannot approve this agreement until we have certainty and confirmation of an iom mission in uzbekistan. last but not least, i am certainly in favour of a constructive approach, but as long as there is no dialogue, as long as there is no partner to talk to, i think, commissioner, that you should seriously consider that the european union should launch an inquiry into the temporary withdrawal of rights linked to the generalized system of preferences. i do not want to say that we have a very great political influence, because the eu exports to uzbekistan do not amount to more than 0.5% of the total and therefore i think we can have a very great influence on the partners. of course, as i said, it takes dialogue and it takes a partner to talk to. we here in parliament, as i said, have not been able to have this dialogue with the uzbek representatives. i very much want to find a solution, i tell you honestly, but until then, the conclusion of waiting and seeing what is the reaction of the uzbek government i think is necessary.
author. − madam president, this is about an oral question and a motion for a resolution. what i would say about both the oral question and the joint motion for a resolution is that they put forward two basic propositions. firstly, that the restrictions for romanian and bulgarian workers on the european labour market should be lifted, as there is no real economic reason to keep them in place, and i quote here from a fresh report from the commission. secondly, the oral question and the motion for a resolution are asking for the states that want to exercise their right to extend the barriers to provide hard economic data in support of their request. since this whole debate was sometimes misunderstood or misrepresented, i have to state what the question and the motion for a resolution are not about. firstly, they are not about changing treaties or any other kind of legislation. they only ask for legislation to be implemented with good reason and not implemented at all when there is no reason. secondly, the question and the motion are not about encouraging vagueness. on the contrary, they propose more transparency, which is to say that from now on, member states should not be able to limit the fundamental rights of fellow european citizens by simply invoking a vague formula – by ticking a box. this sort of behaviour is neither rational nor legal: it is pure imposition. for those who wondered whether romanians and bulgarians could really not wait for another two years, the answer is no. when the issue is your rights, sometimes even a day can be too long. finally, the question and the motion push for full european consistency. i therefore have to ask: why maintain an arrangement that allows goods and capital to move freely towards east european member states while stopping east european citizens taking up jobs in western european countries?
author. − madam president, the right to live and work in another country of the union is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, and yet romanian and bulgarian workers face total or partial restrictions on their fundamental right of freedom of movement. transitional measures constitute a derogation from a fundamental freedom. those transitional measures are counter-productive in terms of combating forced self-employment, undeclared work and irregular employment. eleven member states still maintain partial or total restrictions, but this parliament still does not know how many of those have requested the extension of the transitional measures for the next two years. can the commission tell us how many requests it has received? can the commission also explain on what basis its judgment is going to be produced? at a time when racism, xenophobia and social conflict are increasing, it is of the utmost importance to guarantee social cohesion in the european union through effective integration policies promoting equal treatment, decent working conditions and social protection, and not to use derogations from fundamental freedoms as a political weapon. bulgarian and romanian citizens have the right to enjoy equal treatment just like other european citizens. this is also a way of ensuring fair competition between businesses and preventing any social and economic dumping. workers’ mobility in the european union should never be considered a threat to the internal labour market. therefore, our political groups support the opinion that all these transitional measures should be abolished.
member of the commission. − mr president, the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms, together with the free movement of goods, services and capital. it is a pillar of the single market and for 50 years it has contributed to making european integration a success. i know that the free movement of workers and the lifting of the restrictions in place are of significant importance to you and it is also important for the commission. as you know, the transitional arrangements aim at allowing member states to prepare gradually for the full application of eu law on the free movement of workers. the transitional arrangements were agreed for a maximum period of seven years, in three phases. each phase requires more and stronger justification from member states if they want to maintain the restriction to the free movement of workers. we are approaching the third and final phase of these seven years. in 2007, ten of the 25 other member states opened their labour markets for bulgarian and romanian workers immediately. by now, this number has increased for bulgarian workers to 15, and for romanian workers to 14 member states. even in the member states that still apply restrictions, several apply less strict conditions or simplified procedures in comparison to the conditions and procedures that applied to bulgarian and romanian workers prior to joining the eu. according to the transitional arrangements, a member states that currently still restricts the free movement of workers can only continue to do so for the final two years of the transitional period if it notifies the commission before 1 january 2012 of a serious disturbance of its labour market, or a threat thereof. this restriction can last until 31 december 2013 at the very latest. however, the transitional arrangements do not define what a serious disturbance of the labour market, or the threat thereof, is. as labour markets across the eu vary widely between member states, each member state will therefore have to assess itself whether it undergoes, or is threatened by, a serious labour market disturbance. the commission cannot lay down criteria that member states would have to use. the commission has made it clear though, that it expects any member state that wishes to extend restrictions on labour market access to explain why it considers it is undergoing or is threatened by a serious labour market disturbance and to provide justification with data and convincing, pertinent arguments when notifying the commission. as the commission stated in the report adopted on 11 november on the functioning of the transitional arrangements, it expects more than a simple reference to the unemployment rate. what is, however, important to remember is that the transitional arrangements do not stipulate that the serious labour market disturbance, or the threat thereof, must be caused by an influx of romanian and bulgarian workers. what is also important to note is that a member state only needs to send a notification within the deadline, without needing the commission’s assent to the notification. in that case national law on labour market access will continue to apply after 31 december 2011. concerning the disclosure of a letter of notification, the commission must, in accordance with existing procedures, consult in respect of each such request the member state from where the notification originates. in any case, the commission will check whether the notifications were sent within the deadline, which means before 1 january 2012. if not, eu law on free movement of workers will apply fully. at the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs (epsco) council earlier this month, i encouraged governments to consider with great care, not only in light of the situation of the labour market, but also on the basis of the facts contained in the commission’s report, whether it is necessary to maintain restrictions on the labour market access of bulgarian and romanian workers. i reminded member states to keep in mind that the transitional arrangements aim at allowing member states to prepare gradually for the full application of eu law on free movement of workers and not at delaying its application until the very end of the transitional period. free movement of workers is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the eu treaty and a strong symbol for all european citizens. apart from the right to work itself, working and living conditions are an important aspect here. bulgarian and romanian workers who have been admitted to work in a member state – even in ones that still apply restrictions – benefit fully from the provisions of eu law on free movement of workers that grant the right to equal treatment with nationals as regards conditions of employment and work, including pay. the labour market and social situation has been analysed in the commission report as well as in a specific chapter of the employment and social developments in europe review, a report to be adopted and presented on 15 december. however, as regards, ‘irregular’ bulgarian and romanian workers, the commission regrets that there is no detailed information or data about their number or social situation, which is precisely due to the hidden character of their presence in other member states. in its 2008 and 2011 reports on the functioning of transitional arrangements of bulgarian and romanian workers, the commission has already underlined that the restrictions to free movement of workers do not necessarily have the expected impact of protecting the national labour markets. in some cases, the restrictions can even exacerbate the incidence of undeclared work, leading to undesired social consequences both for undeclared workers and the regular labour force. the commission will continue to develop and promote, in relation with the member states, specific activities to fight undeclared work. finally, the posting of workers directive fully applies to bulgarian and romanian workers who are posted. it defines the core of mandatory working conditions to be respected in the host country by companies posting workers temporarily to that country, in particular with respect to maximum work periods and minimum rest periods; minimum paid annual holidays; the minimum rates of pay, and health and safety at work. the directive thus provides for a significant level of protection of posted workers and avoids that working conditions in the host country are undermined as an effect of competition. the commission is currently preparing a legislative proposal which will aim to improve and reinforce the implementation, application and enforcement in practice of the posting of workers directive. it will include measures to prevent and sanction any abuse and circumvention of the applicable rules. the adoption of the proposal is foreseen for february 2012. the incoming danish presidency will immediately start negotiations on this proposal.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues from all the political groups who made it possible to include this debate on the agenda of the december plenary session and not on the january one, when it would have been far too late. this oral question with a resolution, which i have tabled with my colleagues - mr ungureanu and mr marinescu - is being discussed at a crucial moment when it comes to restrictions on the labour market. by using a very vague expression in european law 'serious disruption of the labour market', these states have simply fragmented the internal market by violating one of the four fundamental freedoms. commissioner, each day that passes brings new developments for the status of mobile workers in romania and bulgaria. so far, the netherlands and the uk have decided, without any basis, to extend these restrictions. i would stress that this measure was taken as the population of the old member states is ageing and we need a young workforce to pay our pensions. i hope that the other countries, which have not yet decided on the extension of the restrictions, will follow the example of germany, which has shown confidence in the professionalism of romanian workers. commissioner, i wonder how some governments can invoke labour market disruption when even employers and smes in their own country are asking them to lift restrictions on romanian and bulgarian workers. i have a feeling that it's the refusal of these governments to allow demand to meet supply that is causing the imbalances in the labor market. i regret once again that some member states prefer to maintain these restrictions, inventing excuses and blame for the economic situation of a part of the population in front of their own electorate.
on behalf of the alde group. i have been and am a supporter of european integration. i have consistently supported and worked for romania's integration into the european union, because for me the union is a big family, created to ensure the well-being of its citizens, a place where everyone has the same rights, and discrimination of any kind is unacceptable. but the reality is different from my european vision. in a union based on freedom of movement, romanian and bulgarian citizens are treated as second-class citizens. since joining the european union, we have accepted the restrictions imposed on us by certain states on the basis of economic arguments, often based on political calculations. since 2012, however, restrictions can only be extended if there is serious disruption to the labor market in those countries. or, the statistics made available last month by the european commission are clear and they show that the influence of romanian and bulgarian workers in the countries where they settled has been beneficial to the economies of those countries, which means that maintaining restrictions for fear of the so-called 'disturbing influence' caused by the presence of romanian and bulgarian workers has no justification. in these circumstances, in order to avoid that decisions by member states are once again taken on the basis of populist political calculations, i call on the european commission to propose clear and transparent criteria for assessing requests for the extension or reintroduction of restrictive measures. i welcome the announcement by the belgian prime minister of the lifting of restrictions on romanian workers. i hope that it will be put into practice and that this measure will be followed immediately by all the other member states which still restrict access for romanian and bulgarian workers. the mobility of workers within the union must no longer be considered a threat to the internal labour markets and the commission has an obligation to ensure that this principle is respected.
i would like to begin by welcoming commissioner andor to the house this evening. when we talk about the free access of romanian and bulgarian workers to the labour market, we have two very clear situations, no more - one, of the states that accepted workers from romania and bulgaria, which recorded economic growth - and we have the case of italy, the case of spain, with an increase of about 2%. the spanish authorities thanked workers from romania and bulgaria a few years ago for helping them to pay out over 250,000 pensions that year. there are other states that are still opposed to the access of romanian and bulgarian workers to the labour market, states that have very great economic difficulties, that have very great imbalances in the labour market and that hide behind excuses that we do not understand very clearly and that are not very clearly explained, excuses that, very often, conflict with the reality in those countries. that is why i think it is very important to ask these member states, if they want to continue to oppose the access of romanians and bulgarians to the labour market in their countries, to come up with very clear arguments, quantifiable, transparent arguments, so that we can all understand why the situation in some member states is different from the situation in the other member states of the european union. i believe that european law should be applied by all member states equally. we have often had governments in sensitive political situations, for electoral reasons, put these conditions and restrictions on workers in romania and bulgaria to show that they are fighting for workers in their country and that they are protecting their own citizens. i think it is not fair, i think that the priority should be our common project, the european union, and only in the second place should come the electoral situation and winning elections that are ephemeral.
it is true that the labour market restrictions are provided for in the union's basic treaty, but the experience with the ten countries that joined in 2004 and the two countries that joined in 2007, as well as your recent study, have shown that the effect of labour from these countries in the old countries has been positive, it has brought economic growth. in other states, however, the existence of restrictions has created negative effects. i want to welcome the decision of belgium, which has opened up the labour market, and even of germany, which has relaxed the conditions on the german labour market. at the same time, i want to show a paradoxical situation, that of the netherlands. the eventual decision of the netherlands to tighten the conditions has led to protests from farmers. there is unemployment, but at the same time, for demographic reasons, there is a shortage of labour. there are differences between the labor markets of different states, there are labor shortages in different professions, but these shortages can be compensated. black-collar work is encouraged by the presence of restrictions. one last thing: i think it is unusual that we are discussing the 'blue card' here in the european parliament, the seasonal workers directive, and at the same time still have restrictions on the internal labour market, when we are talking about strengthening the internal market - and this strengthening cannot be done without full freedom of the labour force.
as my predecessors have pointed out, there are european union states which maintain restrictions on the labour market for romanian and bulgarian workers. it is true that there are signs of openness, that restrictions have been reduced in some sectors and professions or that procedures have been simplified compared to the rules applied before romania and bulgaria joined the european union. commissioner, it is incomprehensible that romanians and bulgarians, who are citizens of the european union, are often associated with labour from third countries. all european citizens stand to benefit from an open labour market and a strong european internal market, and those who maintain these restrictions must understand that the states of the european union are not in competition with each other, but the european union is in competition with the rest of the countries and must always be at the forefront of this competition.
a german company recently opened europe's largest solar park in eggebek, near the german border with denmark, and a romanian company installed the solar panels. the installation of over 400,000 solar panels was completed in just four months. the park has a capacity of 83 mw, covers an area of 3,2 km2 and the investment amounts to eur 130 million. the company in romania that placed the panels used a team of 250 workers, the vast majority from the arad municipality of tudor vladimirescu. the romanians installed on average over 3000 panels per day. such examples of skilled and highly skilled personnel from romania are numerous in the eu. i welcome germany's decision to change the criteria for access to the labour market, but i want all romanian and bulgarian citizens to enjoy free access to this market within the eu.
in two weeks, it will be five years since romania and bulgaria joined the european union. unfortunately, even after these five years, the two countries are not treated as equal partners within the european union. the romanian and bulgarian citizens are still being denied two fundamental freedoms, two european symbols, as commissioner andor has said, namely freedom of movement - by prohibiting accession to schengen - and the right to work freely in the european union. member states maintaining work restrictions for romanians and bulgarians do not intend to completely abandon them after 1 january 2012, although there is no objective basis to justify their extension. as the commission's reports prove, romanian and bulgarian workers have brought and continue to bring, not disruption, but important benefits to the economies of the countries in which they work. i think it is time for member states to decide whether or not they recognise equal membership in the european union for romania and bulgaria and whether or not they support the mobility of workers within the european union, as they have committed to in strategy 2020.
question under the blue card procedure. i would like to ask mrs sinclaire if she has data on the contribution of migrant workers from the new member states to the economic development of her country and also if she can tell us what the effort has been for social services for migrant workers.
at the eu level, there are no 'our terms' and 'your terms', there are only the european union's terms. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties, and this includes the right of union citizens to live and work in another member state. the contribution of migrant workers from the new member states to the development of the host economies is unanimously recognised. we demand the removal of barriers to the free movement of workers in romania and bulgaria and the respect of fundamental social rights for all workers. raising these barriers will protect migrant workers and host-country workers alike. the maintenance of these barriers creates conditions for social dumping and affects both host-country workers and migrant workers, who are forced to accept work below their level of training and with a salary lower than that of a native worker with the same skills. we call on the union and the member states to prevent the exploitation of migrant workers, to prevent the recruitment of migrants in precarious working and social protection conditions and to ensure access to education, health services and decent housing for migrant workers' families. the president agreed to answer a question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
reply to a question submitted under the 'blue card' procedure. i argue that, as when we discuss budget deficit constraints, we should equate the employment rate of the european union with that of social europe. the social policy of the european union must be on an equal footing with the economic policy of the european union: that means equality and unanimity on the important policies of the european union.
in writing. freedom of movement for workers is one of the basic principles of the functioning of the internal market. every community citizen has the freedom to seek employment, to work, to settle or to provide services in another member state. the european labour market can only function properly if this fundamental principle, enshrined in the european treaties, is respected. although there are currently many concrete initiatives in the eu to promote labour mobility, we can see that very few people are exercising this right. unfortunately, some member states have maintained restrictions on romanian and bulgarian nationals under the pretext of protecting the labour market against possible imbalances due to labour migration. several reports contradict the arguments made by these countries based on actual migration figures. it was thus confirmed that romanian and bulgarian workers have a positive impact on the eu economy. i believe that in the current global economic context, marked by a severe economic crisis, we have an obligation to support the removal of any barriers that are holding back the european economy and that have a negative effect on the level of labour mobility and the process of economic integration in general.
given the trade and energy security potential of central asia, as well as the common interest of the central asian countries with that of the european union in diversifying export routes and cooperating on energy and environmental sustainability, i support the need to develop strategies that are linked to the union's programmes and strategies in the caucasus and black sea region. the caspian and middle eastern countries, such as azerbaijan and turkmenistan, have the largest natural gas reserves in the world. i would like to stress the importance of the nabucco project, which will ensure the transport of gas from the caspian sea region, central asia and the middle east to the european union. this project will contribute to the energy security of the european union. 3.5 billion people live in countries rich in oil, gas and minerals. good governance of the exploitation of these resources can generate large revenues to stimulate economic growth and reduce poverty. this is why i support the establishment of long-term supply agreements that enshrine the principles of environmental sustainability, and the extractive industries transparency initiative, which seeks to strengthen governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractive industries.
168 000 european citizens die each year as a result of accidents at work or occupational diseases, and another 7 million are injured in accidents at work. around 50% of workers in the european union do not have access to prevention services at work, particularly in smes and subcontracting chains. investments in occupational accident prevention policies ensure increased productivity and competitiveness, ensure viable social security systems and reduce social security expenditure, estimated at 5.9% of gdp. austerity measures during the economic crisis must not jeopardise health and safety measures. i would draw attention to the recognition of the harsh working conditions and the adoption of the health and safety measures necessary for this type of workplace. i believe that a gender perspective needs to be integrated into the policies of the european strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work to better reflect the specific risks faced by women at work.
in writing. – the european strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work ensures the fundamental right of eu citizens to have access to safe and favourable working conditions. while those in high-skilled positions enjoy a work environment that safeguards the health and safety of its employees, those in low-skilled and low-paying positions are subject to increased vulnerability as a result of illness, accidents and other work-related traumas. acknowledging the pervasiveness of precarious working conditions is the first step in challenging the status quo. a number of roadblocks exist, of course. undeclared labourers are arguably most at risk because of the informal agreement between them and their employers. they must be incentivised to guarantee the provision of a set of fair working conditions regardless of the skill level of their employees. like other member states, romania’s labour code explicitly provides for the protection of the health and safety of workers, yet applying it in practice remains a significant challenge.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to comment on two points: the crisis derogation and the specific renault case. as you know, the european globalisation adjustment fund is a new creation, but it was set up before the impact of the financial crisis on the labour markets of europe became clear. it became operational by 2007 but, at the end of 2008 (as was mentioned by the rapporteur), we changed the original substance of the fund, as a response to the redundancies among workers due to trade liberalisation and the impact of the globalisation of trade, and also to cover workers made redundant as a result of the financial crisis – and rightly so. this was part of a real anti-crisis response on behalf of the european institutions, increasing the co-financing rate on our side and extending the application of the fund. this was a key component of our anti-crisis response and also a political message of european solidarity. so far we have received 53 applications under the extended globalisation fund application, targeting more than 50 000 workers. but the crisis derogation was, by its nature, a temporary one and – as rightly explained by the rapporteur, ms matera – it will expire at the end of the month. as the crisis is not over, the commission wanted to extend the mandate to extend these derogations until the end of the present financial perspective – that is, until the end of 2013 – and, with the great responsibility here in this room, parliament adopted this proposal of extended derogation in september without any amendments. the council, on the other hand, has failed to extend the derogation, despite – i have to say, although it is not my role to praise the polish presidency – the efforts of the polish presidency. in practical terms this means the end of the derogation by the end of the year, although that is not the end of the crisis. all the data indicates that the unemployment rate in europe over the next two years will be not less than 10%. by blocking this proposal, a minority of member states – with the clear majority in favour of extending the crisis derogation – are putting an end to it. this means that the co-financing rate will come down to 50% and the scope of the globalisation fund will be limited to redundancies caused by trade globalisation. we already have in the pipeline ten new applications for the crisis derogation, affecting many thousands of people in europe. i am afraid that they may not be able to benefit from the scheme if it is not presented fully by the end of 2011. i must say that i disagree with some of the arguments used on this occasion by the member states creating a blocking minority in the council. the major one was that the problems of unemployment are better targeted at local level. there is a clear misunderstanding here, as the european globalisation fund is run by shared management, and the response must be designed locally by the member states and not in brussels. so this is a misunderstanding and not a real argument for ending the crisis derogations. there are also other arguments, which i think are not quite in touch with reality, for example that if we support redundant workers, this will relieve the member states of a sense of responsibility. but it is co-financing, and if we see clearly in the statistics that the rich states are better utilising the globalisation fund, that means a real problem of co-financing and sharing responsibility – also financial responsibility – on the part of a member state. i also have to say – because this is a clear support of the globalisation fund – that so far more than 40% of the workers made redundant due to the crisis but covered by the globalisation fund have been able to find another job, so this is working. this is simply working to enhance the labour markets of europe. but, in practical terms, we have no more crisis derogation in 2012, and i think this is a wrong political message to send to the labour markets: but what can we do? we can only encourage applications under the original trade globalisation criteria, and this is what the commission can do under the present circumstances. i have one further, short comment, as this is a joint debate on the specific renault case. we are taking into consideration the issue, raised by several honourable members of the european parliament, of the ex-renault workers who left the company to join the early retirement scheme and were subsequently negatively affected by the reform of the french pension system. of course we take their fate into account and are in touch with renault in order to address the issue. the renault company has committed itself to taking the necessary measures to ensure that those concerned will not be disregarded and to keep the commission informed of their actions, but legally the issue has nothing to do with the mobilisation of the european globalisation fund. this is a human issue but is not legally an issue of the mobilisation of the european globalisation fund, as the workers leaving for the early retirement scheme were not targeted for globalisation fund support. france still has four months to prepare and submit a complete report on the implementation of its measures to handle the fate of the workers. the commission, for our part, reserves the right to carry out an audit to check that the globalisation fund application – and this is in the scope of our responsibility – was properly spent. so here is the role of the commission. from the legal point of view, the question is whether the requirements for the globalisation fund are fulfilled by the renault application. ms matera is saying yes, i know, but this is the legal case. the commission shares the review with the council. renault has made more than 500 workers (this is one of the criteria) redundant as a direct consequence of the global financial crisis. our contribution (within the nature of the globalisation fund) is to be used to co-finance active labour market policy measures. so the only reasonable conclusion today is that the globalisation fund should be mobilised and should contribute in full the amount requested by france. thank you for listening to both the specific points on derogation and the specific renault case.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. mr gauzès, i would like to ask you what you think of the commission's proposal to limit the mobilisation of the egf to companies affected by world trade. i say this because, unfortunately, there are a lot of workers being laid off in the public sector and, unfortunately, public budgets are also affected by the economic and financial crisis. what is your view, then, of the commissioner's proposals to limit the mobilisation of the egf in future to redundancies due to world trade?
blue-card question. – madam president, mr alvaro says that the behaviour of companies is very good. i would like to ask if he or maybe the commissioner have statistics relating to the number of people who were successfully reintegrated into the labour market after being beneficiaries of this fund.
unlike some of my colleagues, i welcome the fact that this fund will be extended to agriculture. free trade is necessary, but we must avoid the danger of impoverishing european producers - and they are being affected by globalisation. the fund is called the 'european globalisation adjustment fund', so it must benefit all those affected by globalisation. i also believe that support under the fund should be considered fully compatible with the beneficiary's obtaining funds under pillar ii of the common agricultural policy - the two sources of support must work together. last but not least, i share the concerns of other colleagues about the disparities in access to the fund between the different member states.
unfortunately, my country, romania, has so far not used the european globalisation adjustment fund at all, although thousands of redundancies have occurred in rail transport, the steel industry and shipbuilding. i would like to welcome the commission's efforts to extend the derogations for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund, but also the efforts to reform this fund. i am in favour of extending it to agricultural workers and increasing the co-financing rate for countries in the process of fiscal consolidation. commissioner, in a letter i sent to you, i asked whether workers made redundant in the public sector, in public institutions, could benefit from the european globalisation adjustment fund. your answer was yes, but i would ask you to make this provision more clearly defined in the future content of this regulation so that we do not create a differentiation, a discrepancy and inequalities between workers in the public sector and those in the private sector, both of which are affected by the economic and financial crisis.
i believe that the success of the programme in question so far provides strong evidence of its usefulness and functionality. i therefore support the continuation and improvement of the programme by providing better visibility in the horizon 2020 framework programme. however, a very important aspect to be emphasised is the need for better promotion of the 'smart energy' programme in the new member states as well. improving access to this programme needs to be balanced in member states not currently participating in such projects, should be stimulated and effectively encouraged. better information on existing projects and how to access funds would also lead to greater cohesion at european level and avoid widening the current gaps in sustainable development.
smart energy in europe provides the basis for sustainable development and smart use of resources in the fields of renewable energy, transport, energy efficiency of buildings and industrial consumption. the policy areas are the pieces of the puzzle we need to shape the eu's future sustainable landscape. reducing emissions and meeting the ambitious targets proposed by the eu can be achieved through initiatives at local and regional level. however, an action-centred framework, better information and co-interest of the authorities at these levels is needed. clean vehicle portals, energy solutions for sustainable buildings, urban mobility measures or 'manage energy' programmes are concrete actions that promote urban sustainability and energy efficiency. the commission and eib financial energy instruments can make an effective contribution to the implementation of programmes promoting sustainability.
we call for the 'intelligent energy europe' programme to be continued in the next financial perspective. the 'intelligent energy europe' programme is encouraging the adoption of smart energy solutions. for the period 2007-13, the programme has a funding of eur 730 million and provides 75% of the funding for the designated winning projects in the annual project applications. this programme has so far funded over 500 european projects lasting 2-3 years, each project involving 8-9 countries. this means over 3 000 beneficiaries in 31 countries. over 250 projects have been carried out in sectors such as transport, industry, energy services, energy efficiency of buildings, equipment, to increase energy efficiency alone. i regard the 'eu for energy' initiative, funded by the 'intelligent energy europe' programme, as a particularly positive initiative aimed at making europe more competitive. this year, 476 projects from 328 schools from all eu member states, as well as norway and croatia, entered the competition. we support, commissioner, the continuation of the intelligent energy europe programme in the future financial framework.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy is one of the policy instruments through which the european authorities have taken responsibility for reforming the energy system and stimulating the uptake of energy from renewable sources. at the same time, european authorities need to take into account the diversity of national economies and european regions, and it is important that the development of energy programmes (including diversification of sources of supply) and the promotion of renewable energy production also take into account the imperatives of the local context. last but not least, european authorities must bear in mind that, unlike in other areas where the cost of investments or purchases to be made is lower, the development of energy programmes requires considerable effort. in these circumstances, it is of the utmost importance to develop an institutional vision of co-financing that serves the interests of the europe 2020 strategy building a european economy that is not only more efficient and competitive, but also more inclusive. it is equally important for the development of the european union that the community executive responds by its actions to the question of financing the 'smart energy for europe' programme. the completion of the programme must also be an opportunity to make the most of the results and to build a successor capable of overcoming the problems encountered by the eie.
in writing. the european 'smart energy' programme has been a key element in the diversification of the european union's energy sources. the financial framework provided, as well as the support of the executive agency for competitiveness and innovation, ensured the coherence of the project. its continuation is vital for the future of european energy security. romania has taken part in numerous projects financed through this programme, particularly in the field of renewable energies. i would also like to mention the 'ambassadors for energy management' partnership. it's been a real success in france, and it's been implemented in my country. the aim is to train a group of local specialists to disseminate information to the population. the consultancy provided in this framework is aimed in particular at the most disadvantaged social groups, covering almost 160 000 households. the emphasis is on efficiency and reducing daily electricity consumption.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, thank you very much, mr schwab, for your good work in making this report on our 2010 competition policy report. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the other committees of this parliament, such as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on transport and tourism, who have also contributed to this report. in the 2010 competition policy report, the commission gives an account of its activities, as it does every year; as mr schwab says, 40 reports already on the development of a policy central to the completion of the internal market and the creation of conditions for economic growth, innovation and, in general, the progress of our economies, always thinking - and i agree with what mr schwab said - of citizens as consumers of goods or as users of services: these are the final recipients of competition policy. we are developing competition policy in times of crisis, and i agree with mr schwab's view, and we discussed this recently in the committee on economic and monetary affairs when i presented the commission's work programme for 2012 in this area: competition policy must take account of the fact that we are in crisis, but it must not be weaker because we are in crisis or in the fight against cartels, where, of course, we must continue to be extremely rigorous, either in politics, in the actions against abuses of dominant positions in the market. in difficult times it is much more harmful for businesses and for all citizens that there are those who abuse their power in the market to obtain particular advantages to the detriment of other competitors and to the detriment of consumers. we must remain vigilant about the possible risks to competition from mergers and acquisitions, which are starting to revive because there is a lot of liquidity in companies, in funds, inside and outside the european union, and there are asset purchase prices and company purchase prices that have fallen as a result of the crisis and that are creating opportunities. we are therefore still active in all areas of the policy to combat cartels, abuse of dominant positions and merger and acquisition control, especially as we are in a crisis. and of course, as mr schwab has said, the control of state aid, of public aid, is fundamental. public aid in times of crisis increases - and i will now refer specifically to aid to the financial system - but aid to the non-financial sectors has also increased in years of crisis, and we have had a specific time frame for controlling state aid in times of crisis which has prevented protectionist temptations from materializing and has prevented barriers from being created in the internal market as a result of the defensive use of public aid to protect companies in one country against the rest of the countries of the european union. that framework for state aid is currently facing a limit in most member states, which is that, subject as they are to very strict fiscal consolidation programmes, they have to prioritise much better and much more carefully the use of their public funds and therefore we should not encourage them from the state aid regulation to spend more, but we should be strict in the control of state aid so that they spend better and fine-tune their priorities better. resources are scarcer in the public coffers and the need to foster those activities with a future, those activities that must pull our economies and move towards a model of sustainable, inclusive growth, compatible with our environmental goals, is key. and finally, aid to the financial system. as mr schwab said, since the beginning of the crisis in 2007, but especially since the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008, we have been faced with a dilemma: either we authorise exceptional aid to the financial system or the financial system collapses. and the collapse of the financial system would have meant the freezing of our economic activities; we cannot sustain economic activity without a sound functioning of the financial system. but this public aid, in terms of guarantees and guarantees, but also in terms of injections of public capital into a number of financial institutions or in terms of support for liquidity or for the treatment of damaged assets, has reached a more than considerable volume. the commission, through me as commissioner for competition, has sent this parliament a document, a study not only of the size of this aid but also of its impact until the end of 2010 - which i hope will be able to be supplemented in the coming months by what has happened in 2011 - aid to the financial system which, in general terms, has been translated into around 9-10 points of gdp in guarantees or guarantees offered by the member states in support of the financial system. it must be said that in only one case, so far, have these guarantees and guarantees had to be given; in the other cases it is a risk, but a risk which has not been given and which allows the member states, in the meantime, to receive revenue for providing this protection, this guarantee. some 3% of european gdp has been channelled to financial institutions in terms of public capital. the return of public capital has begun, but there are still very important financial institutions in several eu countries where the state has had to take part in its capital - assuming obvious risks - and there is 1% of gdp allocated to public resources for the treatment of damaged assets. i wanted to have put an end to this special system, exceptional in times of crisis, now, at the end of this year. unfortunately, with the new tensions that have been recorded in the financial markets since the summer, since the month of august, this is impossible. we need to continue with this exceptional framework, this exceptional regime of public support for the financial system in times of crisis. i hope that in a few months, before the end of 2012, i will be able to come to this house and announce to you that this system is no longer necessary but, in the meantime, it will be necessary with the adaptations we have included. what i can say again and again, what i have already said in this house and on several occasions in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, is that the rigour with which we monitor such aid, the demands in return for aid in terms of restructuring the entities benefiting from it, in terms of proper burden-sharing between all the parties benefiting from it, and the setting of requirements and requirements so that no further distortions are created in our internal market as a result of such aid, those three principles are still present, even more so than ever as the need for such treatment in times of crisis especially extends over more than three years. that's what i wanted to tell you. i thank again mr schwab, his colleagues in other committees, the members of this parliament for the work they have done on this report. and finally, i agree with mr schwab that the report, as from the next edition, will be, as we have discussed with him and his colleagues, a more synthetic report on everything that is already known by other means. we will not repeat in the report information that is available in real time through the websites or previous information. we shall focus the report more closely on those issues which merit special analysis and discussion because, as you know, although many decisions in competition policy are the exclusive competence of the commission, my intention from the beginning - and will remain so until the end - is to keep this parliament permanently associated and in constant dialogue with the commission so that the competition policy of the european union achieves all its objectives.
reporting for the tran opinion - in the field of transport, there are some key points that need to be clarified. in the rail transport sector, the completion of the single european railway area, the opening up of the market, the continuation of the cancellation of historic debts of railway undertakings and the strengthening of regulatory bodies are essential factors in ensuring fair competition. the infringement procedures launched by the commission against member states for the inadequate application of the first railway package should be continued. in the aviation sector, the most important aspect is the completion of the single european sky because it will propose a performance scheme that will bring price transparency. there are passenger rights now in all areas of transportation. i think i proposed and i think it's good that there should be a tourist menu in the same sense. thank you to mr. schwab and mr. fox for your cooperation.
it is clear that the european union's competition policy has over the years led to the removal of many obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and people and has enabled the interests of european consumers to be protected. however, i believe that it is possible to improve the regulation in this area. i shall refer here to one of the subjects dealt with in this report, namely the regulation of credit rating agencies. this oligopolistic sector is characterised by barriers to market entry, lack of transparency and conflicts of interest. the ratings published by these agencies are, unfortunately, not just opinions. they affect the well-being of all european citizens through higher interest rates and increased price volatility. however, we lack strict rules on transparency and on holding agencies accountable for errors. the european executive must step up its efforts to increase competition in this sector. i therefore welcome its recent proposal in this area, while also stressing that the option of establishing a european public credit rating agency should also be considered. the independence of such an institution from the private sector would aim to increase competition and eliminate conflicts of interest.
i too would like to congratulate my colleague schwab on this very good report. i have three things i want to discuss. as regards the temporary state aid scheme, it must be admitted that it was a useful one and that its extension was a good idea in principle. of course, the extension cannot go on indefinitely, and if we have to make these extensions, we must add strict conditionality, especially with regard to the banking system - i am referring to the distribution of dividends, to the size of the balance sheet - because there must be a balance between the stability of the banking system and a satisfactory degree of competition. as regards the energy package, i encourage the commission to be very careful as most member states are behind in implementing the third energy package. as regards the amount of the anti-trust fines, i am in favour of staggering payments - we must not bankrupt european businesses, but neither should it be an excuse for those who knowingly engage in anti-competitive practices.
i would like to congratulate mr. schwab on his report. i would like to welcome the adoption of the third railway package, which will improve competition in rail transport. i think it is a step forward towards the realisation of a single european transport area. as a member of the itre commission and parliament's rapporteur for the e-government report, i would like to stress the importance of implementing e-procurement systems to increase transparency and access to the public procurement market, which amounts to 16% of the european gross domestic product. i also ask the commission to urgently amend the directive on electronic signatures so that we can ensure that they are mutually recognised throughout the european union. finally, madam president, i would ask the commission to review the legislation so that we give more bargaining power to the final consumer. unfortunately, citizens often do not read a service contract and do not have the power to negotiate changes to its terms.
i'd like to congratulate the reporter. mr. schwab has put in a lot of effort and produced an extraordinary report. i would like to draw attention to the restructuring of banks, which has been one of the main challenges facing the european union in the field of competition. in order to avoid distortions of competition, i believe that banks should turn to the use of private capital resources, including through restructuring and conversion of debt into equity instruments. only if strictly necessary and there is no other possibility should national governments be allowed to intervene, in which case national inspectors must ensure that recapitalisation plans do not lead to any excessive reverse leverage. we must be very careful and do everything possible to minimise distortions of competition in the internal market and we must strike a balance between aid to financial institutions and respect for competition.
i voted in favour of this report because the support for afghanistan must be maintained if we want the progress in that country to be irreversible. with the international military presence diminishing, the importance of civilian aid will increase even more. the assistance provided by the union must be subject to appropriate budgetary control. it's not just accounting concerns, but ways of making sure that the funds are used in the best way. to the same end, better coordination between donors is needed, including in terms of reporting and auditing. i would draw your attention to article 22, which makes very useful proposals on this subject. i also underline romania's commitment to security and stabilisation efforts in afghanistan, as demonstrated by its participation in operations with almost 2 000 soldiers.
i voted in favour of this report because i appreciate the amendment to regulation no 1406/2012 as presented by my colleague. a new financial framework and a clearer allocation of competences are needed for the european maritime safety agency to function optimally. i believe that it should promote cooperation between the specialised border police departments of the member states, but also of third countries. i am referring to the series of naval exercises carried out by the romanian border police in conjunction with the turkish coast guard in september 2011. this will strengthen cooperation between the black sea basin states and reduce the time needed to respond to maritime incidents. support cooperation between specialised educational institutions for the exchange of experience and good practice. for example, the naval academy mircea cel bătrân is involved in the erasmus programme.
i voted for this resolution because in syria the brutal repression against the citizens continues. in recent months, the regime has already claimed over 5,000 victims, according to un estimates. we cannot stand by and watch this situation unfold. the international community must take a stand and the european union has a duty to step up its efforts to get the syrian leaders to stop the violence. i welcome the eu's decisions on new restrictive measures against syria and hope that they will have the desired effect. to this end, it is important to define as soon as possible concrete details for putting the new sanctions into practice. i stress the importance of constantly evaluating which measures are more effective. i appreciate the positive role turkey has played in responding to the syrian crisis, including through its efforts to respond to humanitarian emergencies.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the european union needs a solid framework for preventing and correcting macroeconomic imbalances. the economic, financial and structural indicators in the scoreboard will help to identify member states that may be affected by such situations. alert thresholds shall be established for each indicator. it is important, however, that they are complemented by a country-specific economic analysis. i call attention to the in-depth balance sheet. it should include a rigorous assessment of the sources of imbalances. however, the speed and transparency of the analysis are essential. in the event of serious macroeconomic imbalances being identified, monitoring needs to be intensified. i support the integration of the procedure for monitoring economic imbalances into the forthcoming european semesters.
i voted in favour of this report because the union needs a competitive, efficient and integrated transport system. i welcome the commission's proposal to create a unified transport network. it will contribute to the completion of the internal market in this field. i would point out that at european level the transport sector provides some 10 million jobs and accounts for around 5% of gdp. the differences between the eastern and western regions of the union in terms of the level of infrastructure development need to be reduced. stability of project financing must be ensured. i would like to draw attention to the importance of developing transport networks in the new member states. in my country, the €2.2 billion transylvania motorway project will link european and central asian markets.
on behalf of the alde group. i have chosen to explain my vote because, as rapporteur on this report, i abstained from voting on it. i understand that there are people in this parliament who avoid debating a report when it says nothing or says very little, as is the case with this strategy on central asia. although the european union adopted a strategy in 2007, and this parliament has two resolutions, the report does not really assess how the strategy has been implemented; it is an inventory of problems, in a language that is difficult to understand, which clearly shows that the situation in the area is not even known. they talk about a security situation, ignoring the fact that there are neutral countries in the area. the involvement of these countries in the afghan conflict is unknown. but beyond that, this report imposes a certain kind of thinking which, in my view, is detrimental to this parliament. it gives directions and tries to export economic and cultural models to an area that is totally different, throwing this area further into the beach of influence and interest of a russia that wants to rebuild a former soviet union. i think that this kind of superficial approach, marked by a lack of information, marked by a biased approach, at least in our relations with central asia, has no place. i believe that central asia can become a priority and is a priority for many of the member states, and the fact that we condition a number of agreements in the area of human rights is necessary, but this conditioning must not remain declarative. it must be followed by involvement in this area, by an attempt to export our models, our good european practice, and supported by educational cooperation with these countries.
i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to underline the importance of strategic relations with central asia. their potential has not been fully exploited at union level, including in economic and commercial terms. for the countries of the region, cooperation with the european union means access to a huge retail market, an alternative export destination, and new opportunities for technological and industrial development. from the union's perspective, economic relations offer opportunities for diversifying sources of supply of energy and raw materials. efforts to achieve nabucco need to be stepped up. i also stress the importance of launching other projects to link up energy and transport networks. for example, romania proposed to kazakhstan to participate in the agri gas transportation project as well as the connection to the constanța-trieste oil pipeline project.
i voted for this report because we need to adapt the community acquis on health and safety at work to the new risks in this field. for example, sustainable solutions are needed to reduce psychosocial risks. the austerity measures during the economic crisis must not affect the level of safety at work. i would like to mention that employees of smes are most often exposed to occupational risks. 82% of all accidents at work and 90% of all fatal accidents occur in smes. it is necessary to develop a european programme for the monitoring of occupational risks. i support the idea of creating unique methods for assessing the impact of health and safety at work. at the same time, national strategies must be implemented effectively, with the involvement of workers and social actors.
in writing. − i appreciate the work of the rapporteurs who have presented the advantages and disadvantages of the various forms of aid to afghanistan. i appreciate your firm request to the european commission for more transparency on the agreements with the afghan side to verify the efficiency of the use of funds. there are grievances about the way the funds are being used, related to the high level of corruption in the afghan administration. the recommendations in the report are therefore important and will have to be taken into account by the european commission. it's a well-written, professional report that i voted for.
in writing. − the european union must respect its status as a partner with countries outside the european community, but also as a guarantor of respect for human rights, the rule of law and all instruments of democracy throughout the world. the european union has taken on the responsibility of supporting afghanistan in strengthening the rule of law. but this commitment does not mean a lack of control over european funds for the afghan people. in this context, the stabilisation and reconstruction process in afghanistan should be further supported. this support is necessary, but must be accompanied by additional measures to control and coordinate expenditure following referrals from the court of auditors, which identified certain irregularities in the management of european funds. we must be willing to provide assistance to afghanistan to ensure that regional and national institutions function in an efficient and transparent manner. in this regard, it is necessary to support the strengthening of the role of the afghan parliament, judiciary and audit authorities. the national and subnational elected bodies must be helped and encouraged to exercise close supervision of the use of european funds.
in writing. − in the context of the re-examination of european competition policy, it is imperative that decision-makers do not forget that the key to the success of the european economic and social model has been and remains the balance between incentive and competition policies. it is equally important that the re-examination of the legislative framework should always have the ultimate interest of consumers as its reference and objective. it is important that the procedures for sanctioning anti-competitive practices are as transparent as possible and as easy to understand for european consumers. it is equally important that european competition measures increase the transparency of the price-setting process so that consumers make a legitimate and informed decision. last but not least, compensation or penalties for infringements of european competition rules must be reoriented in principle and institutionally towards consumers. in many cases, fines imposed on producers or traders are collected by the state, thus depriving consumers affected by the lack of competition of the remedies they deserve. the creation of a european fund to cover the cost of crossborder actions in the field of competition can make up for regulatory shortcomings or inefficiencies in national legislation, while contributing to the development of the european economic framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the annual report on the competition policy of the european union, as i considered that stricter rules in this area were needed, especially in times of crisis. competition should be encouraged, in particular in the energy, credit rating agencies and banking sectors. the problem of 'too big to fail' banks, which received state aid during the crisis, needs to be addressed. it is surprising that these institutions can benefit from unlimited access to liquidity, but the european central bank has consistently expressed its reluctance to become the lender of last resort for the member states.
in writing. − the competition rules that the european union has been implementing for several decades are proving effective, with the fall in the cost of making calls abroad being one of the most representative examples. the union and the member states must continue to work together to remove any obstacle to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital, and to update the rules in force periodically, so as to enable the union to meet the challenges it faces and to respond to rapid global developments. i also believe that the existence of flexible procedures allows the union's competition policy to remain a constructive and stabilising factor and provides an opportunity for adaptation to real situations, especially as regards the possibility for all consumers to make an appropriate choice.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that workers who are made redundant should be supported in their search for a new job. union assistance in this regard needs to be more dynamic. the co-financing of active labour policies by the egf is all the more important in times of financial and economic crisis. the workers made redundant by renault in france should be granted financial assistance. i stress the need to speed up the procedure for granting subsidies. the efficiency and transparency of their award are of paramount importance. i believe that the 65% co-financing rate through the european globalisation adjustment fund should not be reduced. i recall that in september, nokia decided to relocate its business from romania to asia. as a result, over 2200 employees are to be made redundant as of january 2012. in order to provide financial support to them, romania is preparing to apply for financial assistance from the egf.
in writing. −this application fulfils the conditions for establishing the financial contributions as provided for in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the application does not cover workers at renault who opted for early retirement and could not benefit from egf assistance under regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, but whose pension rights have been affected by the interim application of the pension reform. i support the mobilisation of eur 24 493 525 from the egf to support the workers concerned by the application. measures financed by the egf should lead to long-term employment. we ask the commission to ensure firm and careful monitoring and guidance to ensure that the proposed training offer corresponds to local economic trends. however, egf assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, nor measures to restructure undertakings or sectors.
in writing. − as we know, public access to official eu documents is a very important issue for the transparency of the european institutions and other eu bodies. i appreciate the rapporteur's ideas and especially his perseverance in supporting them, this being the second report on this subject, because of the deadlock that has arisen since the adoption of the first report. first, it should be noted that public access to eu documents increases the transparency of the eu institutions, which in turn leads to a higher level of trust and citizens' closeness to the eu. i am pleased to see that the report has made a number of ambitious changes to the commission's proposal, proposals which give citizens wider access to the commission's text, while ignoring the case law of the court of justice of the european union on some issues (e.g. turco v council). second, the definition of 'documents' retained is much more appropriate than that of the commission. third party documents held by institutions must be accessible under the current system, which has worked quite well. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. the effects on officials' tasks of drafting, recording, negotiating, classifying and archiving eu documents should be harmonised, while protecting the efficiency and transparency of the eu institutions. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the message should be to increase the transparency of the way the eu institutions, offices, bodies and agencies operate, including bringing european forces closer to citizens.
in writing. − i voted against the report on public access to european parliament, commission and council documents because it does not help to achieve the european objective of greater transparency. moreover, this report ignores existing legislation and interinstitutional agreements. the proposed text also fails to take account of the protection of parties in competition cases and of personal data. the need for transparency should be a basic principle for european legislation and the public should have a right of access to all relevant documents concerning eu legislation, but this transparency should not be confused with and identified with access to information leading to certain institutional decisions. such identification would be to the detriment of the institutions, as the publication of informal information on ongoing procedures could lead to interinstitutional decisions being influenced by lobby groups, for example. i believe that access to documents should be legally supported, contribute to transparency and eliminate bureaucracy, not create confusion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal to amend the regulation on public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the legal basis for public access to documents is article 15 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as consolidated. this provision extends the right of public access to documents of all union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. this regulation shall apply to all documents held by an institution, body, office or agency of the union, that is to say, documents drawn up or received by that entity and held by it, in all fields of activity of the union. this provision shall apply to the court of justice, the european central bank and the european investment bank only where they perform administrative functions. transparency should also reinforce the principles of good administration in the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, in accordance with article 41 of the charter and article 298 tfeu. internal administrative procedures should be defined accordingly and sufficient financial and human resources should be made available to put the principle of openness into practice. the institutions shall take the necessary measures to create a common interface for the registers of the institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation establishing a european maritime safety agency. the commission proposal is based on a 2008 consultation of emsa stakeholders, an external evaluation and an impact assessment carried out by the commission. the proposal also reflects emsa's five-year strategy adopted by its management board. the commission also published a report (com ((2011) 0286)) showing that the use of an eu oil spill detection and monitoring system reduces costs by around 20% compared to the use of national systems. as a result of the implementation of the third maritime safety package, emsa has already been given new tasks. emsa has concluded a number of standby oil spill response vessel contracts with private operators who will switch from their normal activity to pollution response in the event of an emergency. the commission proposal states that these vessels could also be used to combat pollution from other sources, including oil platforms.
in writing. − the european union and the member states are making a major effort to prevent the effects of accidental pollution, especially in the case of marine pollution from oil platforms or tankers, and the proposal to establish a joint european coast guard service is all the more appropriate in such situations, which require rapid intervention and effective coordination of response actions.
in writing. − emsa, the agency set up in 2003 in the wake of the pollution caused by the tanker 'erika', is responsible for ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution from ships in the eu. the regulation proposed by the commission refers to the fact that the agency's expertise in this area should be used to the full and its role in providing support and assistance to the bodies or entities concerned (the commission and the member states) in preventing pollution from oil installations should be strengthened. we need to extend emsa's activities so that its expertise and current technical services can be used for a wider range of policies. the previous amendments to the agency's statute are not sufficient to address the new challenges that emsa will face, many of which represent external challenges either to emsa alone or to emsa and the eu as a whole.
in writing. − the proposed regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (emsa) is an opportunity to strengthen the existing functions of emsa to boost environmental protection objectives and accident response capacity in eu waters. the agency's tasks relate to both accidental and illegal discharges. initially, they focused on hydrocarbon pollution. since 2007, however, the agency has also been active in the field of marine pollution caused by dangerous and harmful substances (e.g. chemicals). the agency should carry out inspections in third countries in the mediterranean and black sea and baltic sea regions in whose waters oil and gas exploration and production activities are carried out, and provide assistance to those third countries to strengthen their capacity to improve the safety of their offshore operations. cooperation with third states in the implementation of tasks should be strengthened to allow for a more rapid approach. the organisation of the monitoring and detection system for oil spills at eu level is also less costly for the european taxpayer (by around 20%) and more efficient than doing so at national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency (emsa), as the purpose of extending the powers of the emsa is to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships. while the emsa should focus on the priority tasks in the field of maritime safety, the agency should also be entrusted with additional tasks reflecting the development of maritime safety policy at eu and international level. the agency has already demonstrated that certain tasks, such as satellite monitoring systems, can be carried out more effectively at european level. where these schemes can be used to support other policy objectives, member states save money in their national budgets, which is a real european added value. the emsa should act in the interest of the union and follow the guidance of the commission, promoting the union's policy on maritime safety through scientific and technical cooperation with third countries. one year after the entry into force of the new regulation, the commission shall present a study on a system of coordination of national coast guard services, clearly highlighting its costs and benefits.
in writing. - the syrian regime must be firmly condemned by a democratic space like the eu, where human rights are a fundamental value. there is clear evidence of the brutal repressive measures taken by the syrian regime against its own people, including children and women, the latter having, moreover, made a great contribution to the struggle for democracy in syria. the syrian authorities must immediately end the violent repression against peaceful protesters and harassment of their families and release all detained protesters, political prisoners and journalists. the regime in damascus must immediately allow access to international humanitarian organisations, human rights organisations and the international media. it's the only way to demonstrate goodwill on the part of the syrian leadership and commitment to democratic values. this should be done in parallel with independent and transparent investigations into the systematic, serious and widespread violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms committed by the syrian authorities and military security forces. all those responsible must be held accountable without delay at the international level. the syrian people have legitimate demands and it is imperative to promote a national political dialogue involving all democratic forces and civil society in syria.
in writing. - unfortunately, the arab fall did not give us the same reason for hope as the arab spring. the syrian government's tough stance has generated an equally tough stance from the government's opponents, who see no military solution to the crisis. i do not think it is in the eu's interest to support a solution in syria similar to that in libya. i don't think that diplomacy has exhausted its solutions in the case of syria. violence never solves things, it only complicates them, not to mention the suffering of the innocent. an important aspect is the determination of all members of the international community to respect the sanctions. perhaps a dialogue with the russian federation, china and other traditional allies of syria, who do not welcome the sanctions, could bring about a change of attitude. what is certain is that we have an obligation to do everything within our power to stop the repression in the streets of syrian cities and to make the democratization process a reality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the scoreboard for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances, as it underlines the importance of closer coordination of member states' economic policies. i also believe that both current account deficits and surpluses need to be monitored, as both contribute to the creation of macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. − regarding parliament's resolution on the scoreboard for monitoring macroeconomic imbalances, i voted for amendments 5 and 6, which call on the commission to submit proposals for indicators on income inequality and poverty reduction and stress the need for the unemployment indicator to be considered as an independent indicator, on a par with other indicators. i also voted in favour of amendment no 1, which states that the thresholds for current account imbalances envisaged so far (+6%, -4%) are not consistent with the principle of symmetry and flagrantly favour, a priori, member states with current account surpluses. i voted in favour of amendment 2, which stresses that the approach taken in the case of unit labour costs seems to be somewhat inconsistent with the provisions of article 6 of the regulation on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, which explicitly states full compliance with article 152 tfeu, because this article sets from the outset a level of nominal wage increase that triggers the alert mechanism even in situations where gdp and productivity growth rates would allow growth above the set threshold.
in writing. − a health report on a health measure, which will bring more coherence to infrastructure development projects across the union, generate a more rational allocation of resources and put an end to waste, encourage the use of new technologies in the field, including for pollution reduction. i note the emphasis on further developing rail transport in the member states. i note in this context that the imf and the ec have made the granting of loans to romania conditional on the closure of over 1500 kilometres of railways. it is an unfortunate approach to say the least, which runs counter to the strategies proposed in this roadmap. i voted in favour of adopting the report because i am convinced that the measures proposed will lead to better integration of the transport networks in the member states and their development in the newly admitted countries.
in writing. − the creation of a single european transport area as a goal of the future european transport policy is directly linked to regional, environmental, economic, social, and employment policy. it serves the completion of the internal market, and accounts for some 5% of eu gdp and over 10 million jobs. it stimulates research and innovation, and helps the eu keep its lead and ‘excellence’ in the world. i strongly support increased wise (using the criterion of european-value-added) investment in transport as a precondition for sustainable growth and jobs for the whole of the eu, while helping to fight our way out of the crisis. we need clear and ambitious imperative targets, to be realised by the member states / the commission in both the medium and long run, for example: the commission has to draw up legal rules to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to the 1990 reference figures and to set targets for the different modes of transport and to specify deadlines for commission proposals on issues including: the european railway agency (to be expected by 2012), social and working conditions and the ‘blue belt’ (both 2013), the internalisation of external costs for all transport modes (2014) and urban mobility (2015).
in writing. − i voted for the parliament's resolution on the roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system, as a single european transport area that removes all barriers between transport modes and national systems, without unfair competition and social dumping, is in the interests of european citizens. the transport sector is essential for the development of the eu, its regions and cities, accounting for around 5% of gdp and providing some ten million jobs. i stress the importance of developing transport infrastructure in the new member states, including road infrastructure, and of connecting their transport networks with those of neighbouring states. we ask the commission to take into account the development needs of the transport infrastructure in the new member states in the future multiannual financial framework, so that by 2025 the transport infrastructure in the new member states reaches the level of the infrastructure in the other member states. we call on the member states to remove the main bottlenecks in the european transport area by creating intermodal infrastructure and to give priority to cross-border projects between member states, without neglecting connections with neighbouring countries, and to propose an approved financing plan by 2015.
in writing. − the situation in european prisons has steadily deteriorated as they have become overcrowded, as a consequence of the deterioration in the social status of many european citizens. moreover, there is a systematic violation of the rights of the prisoners, the abuses committed against them. breaking the law doesn't justify mistreatment in prison. on the other hand, the situation of prison employees has deteriorated for exactly the same reasons. the report correctly puts the issues in context and makes pertinent recommendations. i particularly welcome the recommendation to the member states and the ec to establish and apply minimum standards for conditions of detention and imprisonment, and uniform standards for compensation to persons who have been wrongfully detained or sentenced. i voted in favour of the report, which has the quality of being realistic and proposing rational and feasible solutions.
in writing. − it is an important document addressing an issue which has generated and is generating discriminatory treatment in the labour market for european citizens from the newly admitted countries, especially those from romania and bulgaria. i have drawn attention to this unacceptable phenomenon and its consequences. despite the efforts of meps, some governments are still prolonging measures restricting access to the labour market for workers from certain countries. although the proposals and demands contained in the resolution are not as firm as they would be to bring about a change of substance, they are a step in the right direction. if we can follow what happens to the recommendations in the resolution, i hope we will not talk about these discriminations anymore. with that hope, i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. - i think that states that impose restrictions on the labour market make a massive mistake by ignoring the economic interest of their own society and forcing it to confine itself to political judgments. following this logic, states that impose restrictions will try to extend them, turning them into electoral tools. the european union should act more boldly, especially in the current economic climate. we are in an economic impasse because the european perception of many member states is in a deadlock and many european governments have abandoned their claims of good europeanism under the pressure of elections. i am glad that we have had such a lively debate in the european parliament on this subject and i hope that the two resolutions adopted this year will have the effect of lifting the restrictions on the labour market for romanians and bulgarians. i would like to conclude by saying that the decline in economic activity does not exclude the need for growth. romanian workers are excluded from austerity, but required by any serious plan for growth. for example, a romanian bricklayer puts about 5,000 bricks a day in london. british construction companies have noticed the difference and prefer romanians, as an englishman is harder to find and does not have the same productivity.
in writing. the european parliament adopted today a resolution on the full free movement of workers within the european union. this resolution, which was added to the agenda of the plenary in extremis, was not examined in advance by the responsible parliamentary committee. this resolution aimed to open the labour markets of the eu member states fully to romanian and bulgarian workers. i have decided to vote against this resolution, on the basis of the clause in the treaties which allows a two-year delay in the total opening up of the labour markets. i support the free movement of workers in accordance with the european treaties every day as a member of the parliamentary committee on employment and social affairs. but the unprecedented crisis we are experiencing, the importance of unemployment, especially among young people, forces us to concentrate all our efforts at national level so that citizens can find their way back to employment. as the permanent rapporteur of the european social fund (esf) in the 27 member states, i am strongly committed to the professional integration of european citizens to promote their social integration. but we must keep in mind that in these difficult economic times, we cannot accept everything.
in writing. − at a time when social conflict is increasing, it is of the utmost importance to guarantee social cohesion in europe through effective integration policies promoting equal treatment, decent working conditions and social protection, and not to use derogations from fundamental freedom as a political weapon. mobile workers from romania and bulgaria have had a positive impact on the economies of member states which host mobile workers, being a milestone for eu integration, economic development, social cohesion, individual upgrading at professional level. the transitional measures imposed are counterproductive for combating false self-employment, undeclared work and irregular employment since workers without the right to enter the regular labour market freely sometimes have to work as a false self-employed or irregular worker, resulting in abuses of their labour rights. i have voted today for all transitional measures to be eliminated, given that there are no real economic justifications to restrict the right to work and reside on the territory of another member state for romanians and bulgarians. bulgarian and romanian citizens have the right to enjoy equal treatment with the rest of european citizens and this is also a way of ensuring fair competition between businesses and preventing any social and economic dumping.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the free movement of workers in the eu, because it is a fundamental right of union citizens. we consider that the existing barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers are counterproductive for eu citizens and call on the member states to abolish all the transitional measures in force, given that there are no real economic justifications to restrict the right of romanian and bulgarian citizens to work and reside in the territory of another member state. we call on the commission to clearly define 'serious labour market disturbances or the risk of such disturbances' and to prepare clear indicators and an improved methodology, based on economic and social indicators, to assess whether there are clear justifications for prolonging the partial or total restrictions imposed by certain member states to deal with the negative disruptions in their national labour markets that could be caused by romanian and bulgarian workers. we call on the commission and the member states to remove the transitional restrictive periods so that bulgarian and romanian citizens can enjoy equal treatment as provided for in the treaties, thus guaranteeing fair competition between businesses and preventing social and economic dumping.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adopting the report, based on the finding that the eu strategy for the countries of central asia has proved to be correct and that, despite the problems that still persist, we can see many changes for the better in terms of the objectives pursued. the report rightly stresses the importance of supporting efforts to democratize and to ensure that citizens' rights and freedoms are fully respected. the eu can contribute more effectively to structuring and strengthening civil society in the five countries covered by the report. i note with satisfaction the interest shown in supporting actions aimed at the sustainable development of the economies of these countries, which have suffered dramatically since the collapse of the former ussr. i note the attention given to actively combating poverty in the area, a scourge that is fueling social violence, religious fanaticism and even acts of terrorism. the eu's determination to meet its obligations, even in these conditions of crisis, is remarkable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the state of play of the eu strategy for central asia as this region is of major importance to the union in terms of its trade potential and energy security and as the region has been affected by the recent global financial and economic crisis. i stress the importance of energy in relations with the countries of central asia, as it is a major source of revenue for these countries, as well as a potential source of energy security for the eu. the eu and the countries of central asia share a common interest in diversifying export routes and cooperating on energy and environmental sustainability. i would stress that the lack of energy (e.g. for heating and electricity) is making the situation worse for the poor in the central asian countries and the eu, in line with its climate change commitments, should step up its assistance in the region to develop a sustainable energy policy, including on the basis of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. i believe that the review of the eu strategy for central asia must take into account the need to support its objectives with sufficient financial resources and to establish appropriate distribution models that reflect the realities of each country in the region.
in writing. − as several studies by international and european organisations indicate, one of the most important aspects of making health policies more effective, both in terms of reducing costs and improving overall health, is to encourage disease prevention. the organisation of work or production must not contravene this imperative of european policies. it is important that the action of the european institutions should be directed towards monitoring occupational risks and diseases, and that efforts should be made to integrate the definitions and instruments of health policy used by the member states. policies should have the objective, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, of preventing discriminatory treatment or differentiation between categories of european employees on the basis of access to health services. policies must also take into account the position of the more vulnerable occupational categories exposed to additional health risks. policies must therefore serve the interests of young or old employees, foreign workers or those employed on temporary contracts. another priority is the importance of creating a single european legislative framework governing the obligations of subcontractors towards their employees in the field of insurance and health services.
in writing. − the eu has strong legislation on health and safety at work, enabling the implementation of the european treaties and the charter of fundamental rights in the field of occupational health. but this is far from enough to guarantee safety and health at work, as the realities are pushing us to take more and more account of psychosocial risks. these risks are not sufficiently covered by community or national legislation. at european level, companies address these risks by offering training programmes, but workers are most often the ones who suffer from poor work organisation and management style. it is therefore necessary to study the relationship between workplace inconvenience and work organisation. the positive role of persons who legitimately alert to unrecognised risks within a company should be mentioned. the alerting process should be protected, as is the case in certain countries in europe and other parts of the world. in the uk, whistleblowers have been protected from dismissal and pressure since 1998. in the united states, their protection depends largely on the subject of the report and the status of the whistleblower.
in writing. − a very valuable report on an important area: health and safety at work. it's an area where i've seen a steady deterioration in the situation of employees, regardless of their nature. an example would be the increase in workplace suicides, or the deaths of some employees from exhaustion. also, under pressure from employers, a series of changes in legislation have been introduced, which worsen the situation of employees, their physical and mental health. the findings of the report are worrying and underscore the need for immediate action to change the situation. i consider the european commission's recommendation to facilitate the development of european standards for health and safety in enterprises to be essential, stressing the need for cooperation between member states to investigate the causes of accidents at work and to share best practices. i also think it is important to ask the european commission and the member states to propose measures to improve the working conditions of people with cancer or other occupational and chronic diseases. i voted in favour of adopting this report, convinced of its necessity and of the measures proposed by the authors.
in writing. − demographic changes at european level require appropriate measures by member states to ensure the necessary services for older people, namely the availability of trained staff in areas such as cleaning, care services and nursing homes. this requires, however, that member states also make efforts to ensure that accident prevention policies are respected, especially in the case of parttime work schemes, for which women are preferred. i believe that particular attention should be paid to outsourcing of certain jobs, such as cascading subcontracting, those for workers posted abroad or temporary contracts for young people and students.
in writing. − the theme of this report is topical, as we all know that jobs tend to be more productive the healthier they are. in the context of the current financial crisis, there is a risk that companies may consider reducing investment in occupational safety and health. young people are a vulnerable group, as they are more concerned with immediate job security, not considering the long-term consequences of a disease or injury in their youth. it is precisely to protect them that i believe that we must develop: 1. a european programme for monitoring occupational risks among young people based on health indicators; 2. - vocational training programmes with sector-specific information for the first months of work of young workers.
in writing. − the eu is currently facing an ageing population, the trend towards longer working lives and the need to ensure an increase in healthy life expectancy. inequalities were found within socio-occupational categories in life expectancy and difficult working conditions. 168 000 european citizens die each year as a result of accidents at work or occupational diseases, and 7 million are injured in accidents at work. labour inspection has an indispensable role, through education, persuasion and encouragement, in verifying the application of existing legislation and prevention by verifying the respect of decent working conditions for vulnerable groups of workers or for occupations that can be carried out 'off-the-shelf'. member states must ensure high quality standards of education and further training for labour inspectors, monitor regular medical checks, assess the results with a view to ensuring that workers are in a state of health compatible with the requirements of the workplace and strengthen sanctions against undertakings that do not comply with their obligations in respect of fundamental workers' rights. i ask the ec to develop guides to good practice in this area, stressing the need for member states to organise exchanges of good practice to increase the efficiency of workers at work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mid-term review of the european strategy 2007-2012 on health and safety at work, as the right to health is a fundamental right and as every worker benefits from the legal guarantee of healthy, safe and dignified working conditions. studies show that young workers aged 15-24 are at particularly high risk of injury, and the long-term consequences of an illness or injury in their youth can be considerable. i therefore continue to support the need to integrate the theme of health and safety at work into existing eu programmes such as 'youth on the move'. i voted against the part of paragraph f that considers extending working life for older workers is a solution to the labour shortage. i also voted against paragraph 71 because i believe that in order to reduce stress at work it is not enough to introduce special instructions on the ability to work under stress, as well as workshops on teamwork skills and to improve the integration of a particular group of employees, but that working conditions must be improved in a concrete way.
author. − rafiq tagi was a journalist and writer in azerbaijan and criticised the iranian government and religious oppression in azerbaijan. the journalist has received death threats since 2007, when an iranian fatwa was issued calling for his death. this year, on november 23rd, rafiq tagi was killed. there is suspicion that iranians or local islamic extremists are responsible for this murder. the azerbaijani authorities are investigating this murder. investigations must be swift, effective and impartial, and the murderers and those who ordered tagi's death must be identified and brought to justice. the iranian authorities have an obligation to cooperate with factual information and evidence during the investigation. in addition, the iranian authorities must urgently ban iranian clerics from publicly calling for the killing of people. the outcome - and therefore the responsibility for this investigation - is largely iran-related. i ask the azerbaijani authorities to do everything possible to protect the lives and safety of those living in azerbaijan for whom the fatwa, that is, the demand to be killed, has been issued.
i too express my regret at the death of the journalist rafig tagi and i condemn in the strongest possible terms this heinous murder, which demonstrates the consequences of religious extremism on human rights, first and foremost the essential right to life. the killing of this prominent journalist raises serious questions about the human rights situation in azerbaijan. this is all the more worrying as the country is a member of the eastern partnership, the council of europe and actively participates in the european neighbourhood policy. and yet, despite its international partnerships, azerbaijan has yet to demonstrate a serious commitment to ensuring press freedom and protecting fundamental freedoms activists. i too call on the azerbaijani authorities to carry out an urgent and objective investigation into the circumstances of the stabbing of rafig tagi and to act with all responsibility to end the impunity enjoyed by the perpetrators of crimes committed in the name of religious beliefs. i also call on the commission and the other european institutions to make any progress in cooperation with azerbaijan conditional on ensuring respect for human rights.
i would like to add my voice to that of mr vigenin, who said that we must choose our subjects very carefully. beyond what unfortunately happened in azerbaijan, we must emphasize one thing that is necessary: this type of crime knows no borders. i think we have to cooperate, all the member states, to try to prevent such actions, which are acts of cruelty, certainly, significant, but i don't think we can blame azerbaijan for this assassination. all we can ask azerbaijan is to mobilize and try to make the investigation much faster and more effective, because the discovery of the perpetrator, his conviction, is a main means of persuasion in order to prevent such heinous crimes.
the author. - we are also discussing afghanistan and pakistan today; in both countries we can identify some elements that can be described as positive - for example, in afghanistan, certain women have been appointed to positions of responsibility; gulnaz, who was a rape victim, was recently pardoned, initially sentenced to prison; on the other hand, in pakistan, the adoption of the law on the prevention of practices against women, as well as the law against acid attacks at the beginning of the week - all these are encouraging signs. but there are still things in both countries that are extremely, extremely serious: in afghanistan, domestic violence, as in pakistan; on the other hand, in afghanistan, stoning, disfigurement for violating social norms; in pakistan, women are victims of honor killings; forced conversion to islam; there are practices that are more than worrisome and we have to denounce them here.
the author. − this resolution, although addressed to these two countries with different situations in terms of the situation of women, has some issues in common, namely a dramatic situation in terms of equal opportunities, women's rights and, in particular, violence against women, with a preference for what is happening in pakistan. but we must admit that the situation in afghanistan has improved, at least from a legislative point of view. the recent constitution of afghanistan has an explicit provision on equal opportunities. the 2009 law on combating violence against women was put into effect. i also think that the representation of women has improved, but we have to admit that it will be a difficult situation after the troops have left afghanistan because, in these conditions, i think that what has been gained in this period is at risk of being lost very quickly. the european union must therefore step up its cooperation programmes to maintain an improved situation.
indeed, as my colleagues have said, there have been some improvements in afghanistan, but i find it appalling that the situation of women in afghanistan is still almost unchanged 10 years after the signing of the bonn agreement on the creation of the transitional government under the presidency of hamid karzai. high rates of maternal and infant mortality, the marginalization of women in society, the existence of fundamentalist courts in some regions and frequent armed attacks against girls and women attending schools or attempting to participate in public life are deeply worrying. despite progress in their representation in parliament and administration, afghan women remain victims of domestic violence, trafficking and forced marriage, lack of healthcare, and police and judicial discrimination. the saturday night explosion at the girls' school in pakistan speaks volumes about the plight of women in this country with which the european union is trying to develop a partnership but which risks being undermined by the brutal violation of human rights. i join the call to the afghan and pakistani authorities.
in writing. – we say that women are among the most vulnerable people in afghanistan and pakistan. however, their vulnerability rests solely on the way society perceives and treats women. vulnerability is a social construct, and what is made by people can by remade by people. violence is a main factor that makes women vulnerable. in afghanistan, on 12 november, a woman and her daughter were executed by stoning in ghazni, kandahar, an area where sharia law is imposed. in pakistan, asia bibi, a christian woman, mother of five children is the first woman to be sentenced to death under the blasphemy laws. she is being held on death row, while an islamic cleric offered a cash prize of about eur 5000 for her killing. the government in the two countries must put an end to such abuses and ensure the protection of the life and integrity of all, including women. the eu must urge the authorities of afghanistan and pakistan to protect women’s rights. we must assist, including with funding, the political actors and civil society who struggle to bring democracy, human dignity, and basic human rights in their countries.
the author. - i understand that some of our colleagues are wondering why we are talking about tunisia. i think we're talking about tunisia because we have a very interesting issue that concerns the tunisians. i could, in fact, see it when i was in the elections in this country, and that is a problem is how quickly the structures of authority can change and, in particular, the law enforcement and police forces. opinions were divided at the time of the elections, and i was talking to tunisian citizens: some said that the police and the security forces were intimidated and too weak; now this case of zakaria bouguira shows us the other side, the other opinion, namely aggressiveness. the key word in this regard i think should be the careful examination of the file, the punishment of those who are guilty for this particular case. in this way, tunisian citizens will have real confidence in their institutions.
zakaria witnessed the violence of the security forces against 13 young moroccans at the airport in tunis on november 13. because he tried to film, the police violently stopped him and took him and the 13 young people to the police station. there they were all subjected to other acts of violence and intimidation. zakaria was released within hours, but nine of the 13 youths remained in detention for another eight days. we demand an independent and impartial investigation into this case for those who were arrested and beaten. the tunisian revolution was actually about ending the abuses of the state. the recent free elections are one of the hallmarks of democracy, but they must be complemented by irreversible measures to respect human rights and freedom. the judiciary and law enforcement must uphold the law and build the rule of law, and we must support this, including financially.
i think this resolution should be seen by us as an early warning resolution about human rights violations in tunisia, because otherwise i don't understand why we have this double standard - a long silence on an authoritarian regime of ben ali and very quick action on a matter that is still under judicial investigation. but it is very clear that the tunisian authorities must understand from this incident that the rule of law is built with responsibility, to investigate, to punish those guilty of legal violations, otherwise it will become a habit. i hope that this resolution will be a wake-up call, unfortunately, also to the member states where similar things are happening and where things are being ignored; i hope that this resolution will also be a wake-up call to all those who understand how to control their populations by means of surveillance, because it is not only tunisia that is at risk of this path; the temptation of the totalitarian type is also found in the european union.
